MUNICIPAL CODE
of
WOOD DALE, ILLINOIS
1993
Code current through:
Ord. O-25-011, passed 3-20-2025
UDC: Code current through:
Ord. O-25-011, passed 3-20-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Wood Dale, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance O-25-011, passed March 20, 2025.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1723
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING THE 1993 MUNICIPAL CODE OF THE CITY OF WOOD
DALE
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WOOD DALE, DU PAGE COUNTY,
ILLINOIS:
SECTION ONE: That a "Wood Dale Municipal Code" consisting of Chapters 1 through
15, inclusive, is adopted and enacted hereby as the "Municipal Code of the City
of Wood Dale of 1993" (and hereafter referred to as the "Municipal Code of the
City of Wood Dale of 1993"); which Code shall be treated and considered as a
new and original comprehensive Ordinance, which shall supersede all other
general and permanent ordinances passed by the City Council, unless exempted
from repeal and continued in force and effect as set forth hereinafter; and
which Municipal Code of the City of Wood Dale of 1993 shall hereafter be and
read as follows:
SECTION TWO: That all other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with
the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed, except for the following
which shall not be affected in any way by the passage and adoption of this
Ordinance:
   A.      Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty of forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of such Municipal Code of the City of Wood Dale of 1993;
   B.      Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money for the City, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any
evidence of the City's indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by
the City;
   C.      Administrative resolutions of the City Council not in conflict or
inconsistent with the provisions of such Municipal Code of the City of Wood
Dale of 1993;
   D.      Any right or franchise granted by an ordinance of the City of Wood
Dale;
   E.      Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way
in the City of Wood Dale;
   F.      Any budget ordinances;
   G.      Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes;
   H.      Any bond ordinance;
   J.      Any ordinance establishing or prescribing grades in the City of Wood
Dale;
   K.      Any ordinance providing for local improvements and making
assessments therefor;
   L.      Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the
City of Wood Dale;
   M.      Any ordinance extending or contracting the boundaries of the City of
Wood Dale;
   N.      Any ordinance prescribing the number, classification, or
compensation of any City officers or employees not inconsistent herewith;
   O.      All ordinances relating to elections not inconsistent with this
Municipal Code of the City of Wood Dale of 1993;
   P.      All ordinances establishing social security withholding or payments
which are not inconsistent with this Municipal Code of the City of Wood Dale of
1993;
   Q.      The Building Code of the City of Wood Dale and all amendments
thereto;
   R.      The Zoning ordinance of the City of Wood Dale and all amendments
thereto; and
   S.      The following ordinances of the City of Wood Dale:
Ordinance No. 641, providing for creation and participation in a local mass
transit district, passed November 1, 1970;
Ordinance No. 832, an electrical franchise, passed February 7, 1974;
Ordinance No. 1674, creating a special class vehicle license known as an
"honorary license", passed October 1, 1992;
Ordinance No. 1675, regarding charges for scavenger service for households with
income not more than the "Very Low Income Figures" established by the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development, passed October 1, 1992;
Ordinance No. 1682, amending the traffic code in connection with creating
additional no parking areas; creating a stop designation for the Motorola
Driveway (1000 Mittel Drive) where it intersects with the west line of Mittel
Drive; and creating Residential Parking Permit No. 2, passed October 1, 1992;
Ordinance No. 1687, creating a stop designation at Maple Avenue at its
intersection with Elmhurst Street, passed December 3, 1992;
Ordinance No. 1690, dealing with the electrical code, passed January 21, 1993;
Ordinance No. 1702, dealing with sewer and water services, passed April 18,
1993;
Ordinance No. 1703, establishing rates for scavenger services, passed April 18,
1993;
Ordinance No. 1715, increasing the number of "Class R" liquor licenses by one,
passed June 3, 1993;
Ordinance No. 1717, declaring certain types of weeds to be a nuisance, passed
July 15, 1993;
Ordinance 1721, providing for a stop designation at Woodside Drive at its
intersection with Third Avenue, passed August 19, 1993.
SECTION THREE: That whenever in this Municipal Code of the City of Wood Dale of
1993, or in any other ordinance of the City, any act or omission is prohibited
or is made or declared to be unlawful or a misdemeanor, or whenever in such
Code or ordinance the doing of any act or the omission of a required act is
declared to be unlawful or a misdemeanor where no specific penalty is provided
therefor, and state law does not provide otherwise, the violation of any such
provision of such Code or of any such ordinance shall be a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500). Unless specifically
provided otherwise, or the context thereof so dictates, each day of any
violation of any provision of such Code or any evidence shall constitute a
separate offense.
SECTION FOUR: That, hereafter, when any and all additions or amendments to this
Municipal Code of the City of Wood Dale of 1993 are passed and the form thereof
indicates the intention of the City Council of the City of Wood Dale to make
such addition or amendment a part of the said Municipal Code of the City of
Wood Dale of 1993, such addition or amendment shall be deemed to be
incorporated in the Municipal Code of the City of Wood Dale by reference to the
"Municipal Code of the City of Wood Dale of 1993".
SECTION FIVE: That the City Clerk of the City of Wood Dale be and is directed
hereby to publish the foregoing Municipal Code of the City of Wood Dale of 1993
in pamphlet form, by authority of the Mayor and City Council, pursuant to the
Statutes of the State of Illinois made and provided.
   A.      It shall be the express duty of the City Clerk of the City of Wood
Dale or someone authorized by the City Clerk to insert in its designated place
each amendment or other ordinance which indicates in text the intention of the
City Council to make such amendment or other ordinance a part of the Municipal
Code of the City of Wood Dale, and to extract from such Municipal Code all
provisions which may from time to time be repealed by or superseded by
amendments so adopted by the City Council.
   B.      It shall be the duty of the City Clerk of the City of Wood Dale to
maintain a copy of the Municipal Code, of the City of Wood Dale in the Office
of the City Clerk and make the same available to all persons desiring to
examine the same, which copy shall be considered the official Municipal Code of
the City of Wood Dale.
SECTION SIX: That the Mayor and City Council of the City of Wood Dale believe
that this Ordinance adopting a new Municipal Code of the City of Wood Dale is
of the utmost urgency and importance, so that this Ordinance shall be in full
force and effect immediately after its passage, approval, and publication, in
the manner provided by law.
AYES: Perotti, Van Geest, Johnson, Sye, Gbur, Funteas, Moyer
NAYS: None
ABSENT: Hughes
PASSED this  7th  day of  October  1993.
APPROVED this  7th  day of  October  1993.
Published in pamphlet form  October 8 , 1993.
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
ARTICLE I
OFFICIAL MUNICIPAL CODE
SECTION:
1.101. Title
1.102. Judicial Notice
1.103. Copies Of Code
Sec. 1.101. Title.
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this Code is declared hereby to be and
hereafter shall constitute the official Code of the City. This Code, while
sometimes referred to herein as "Code" shall be known and cited as the
MUNICIPAL CODE OF THE CITY OF WOOD DALE OF 1993 and it is hereby published by
authority of the Council and shall be kept up to date. Any reference to the
number of any section contained herein shall be understood to refer to the
position of the same number, its appropriate chapter and title heading, and to
the penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when
reference is made to this Code by title in any legal documents. (1993 Code)
Sec. 1.102. Judicial Notice.
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1.201 of this chapter. (1993 Code)
Sec. 1.103. Copies Of Code.
   A.   City Clerk's Copy: The City Clerk shall keep at least one copy of Code.
Whenever any ordinance which amends or makes an addition to the Code is passed
and approved, the City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the Office of the Clerk. (1976
Code §1-10; amd. 1993 Code)
   B.   Custody And Distribution Of Code Copies: The City Clerk shall maintain
this Code, either in a hard copy version or an electronic version. Copies of
the Code shall be available electronically and updated, as required. (Ord. O-
18-005, 2-1-2018)
ARTICLE II
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1.201. Amendment of Ordinances
1.202. Public Utility Ordinances
1.203. Court Proceedings
1.204. Severability Clause
1.205. Delegation of Authority
Sec. 1.201. Amendment of Ordinances.
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (1993 Code)
Sec. 1.202. Public Utility Ordinances.
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1993 Code)
Sec. 1.203. Court Proceedings.
No new regulation contained in this Code shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or amended
or not, as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any
act done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right
accrued or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to
affect any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising
before the new ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings
thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in force at the time of such
proceeding, so far as practicable, if any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be
mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by
consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new
ordinance takes effect. (1993 Code)
When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision shall be
itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former
ordinance, clause or provision unless it shall be therein so expressly
provided. (1976 Code §1-7)
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City herein repealed
and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code shall be
deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (1993 Code)
Sec. 1.204. Severability Clause.
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not effect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1993 Code)
Sec. 1.205. Delegation of Authority.
Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or some other
City officer to do some act or perform some duty, it is to be construed to
authorize the head of the department or other officer to designate, delegate
and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or perform the duty
unless the terms of the provision or section specify otherwise. (1993 Code)
ARTICLE III
INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1.301. Interpretation and Application
1.302. Construction of Words
1.303. General Definitions
Sec. 1.301. Interpretation and Application.
In the interpretation and application of any provisions of this Code, they
shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any
provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than
the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater
restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. (1976 Code §1-2)
Sec. 1.302. Construction of Words.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the rules and
definitions set out in this Article shall be observed unless such construction
would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the City Council. The rules
of construction and definitions set out herein shall not be applied to any
section of this Code which shall contain any express provision excluding such
construction, or where the subject matter or context of such section may be
repugnant thereto.
All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code
shall be literally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the
City Council may be fully carried out. Terms used in this Code, unless
otherwise specifically provided, shall have the meanings prescribed by the
statutes of the State for the same terms.
Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage
of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have
acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning. (1976 Code §1-2)
Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural number
is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any
single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females
as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
City Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive. (1993 Code)
Sec. 1.303. General Definitions.
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another. (1993 Code)
ALDERMEN: Refers to the elected members of the City Council. (1976 Code §1-2)
ATTEMPT AT COMMITTING VIOLATION: A person commits an attempt when, with intent
to commit a violation of a specific provision of this Code, he does any act
which constitutes a substantial step toward the commission of that violation.
(1976 Code §1-21)
BUILDING COMMISSIONER: The Building and Zoning Administrator.
BUSINESS LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation. (1993 Code)
CIRCUIT COURT: The Circuit Court of the Eighteenth Judicial Court.
CITY: City of Wood Dale, Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Wood Dale, Illinois.
CODE or THIS CODE: The Municipal Code of the City of Wood Dale of 1993.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which any act provided by this Code or
other City ordinance is to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day
and including the last, unless the last day is Saturday or Sunday or is a
holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or hereafter enforced in this
State, and then it shall also be excluded. If the day succeeding such Saturday,
Sunday or holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or Sunday, then such
succeeding day shall also be excluded.
CONSPIRACY: A person commits conspiracy when, with intent that a violation of a
specific provision of this Code be committed, he agrees with another to the
commission of said violation. No person may be convicted of conspiracy to
commit a violation of a specific provision of this Code unless an act in
furtherance of such agreement is alleged and proved to have been committed by
him or by a co-conspirator.
CORPORATE LIMITS or CITY LIMITS: The legal boundaries of the City of Wood Dale.
COUNTY or THIS COUNTY: The County of DuPage in the State of Illinois.
ELECTORS: Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at Municipal
elections. (1976 Code §1-2; 1993 Code)
EMPLOYEE: An employee of the City. (1993 Code)
FISCAL YEAR OF THE CITY: The fiscal year for the City shall begin on May 1 of
each year and end on April 30 of the following year. (1976 Code §2-4)
MAYOR: The Mayor of the City. (1976 Code §1-2)
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed. (1993 Code)
MONTH: A calendar month. (1976 Code §1-2)
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the City; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community. (1993 Code)
OATH or AFFIRMATION: Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear"
and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed". (1976
Code §1-2)
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of any building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE OR PETTY OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or
the omission of any act required by the provisions of this Code for which a
penalty not in excess of a five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine may be imposed 1
. (1993 Code)
OFFICER: Any elected or appointed official of the City.
ORDINANCES: The ordinances of the City and all amendments thereto.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any land trustee and/or
beneficiary of such land or territory, part owner, joint owner, tenant in
common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the
whole or of a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Shall extend and be applied to associations, trusts, firms,
partnerships and corporations as well as to individuals. Whenever the word
"person" is used in any section prescribing a penalty or fine as applied to
partnerships or associations, the word shall include the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the word shall include officers,
agents or employees thereof who are responsible for any violation of the
section.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every species of property except real property, as
herein described.
PROPERTY: Any real or personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments. (1976 Code §1-2;
1993 Code)
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
directly to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property. (1993 Code)
SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION: The holographic undertaking of a person of his name
and includes a mark when the person cannot write. (1976 Code §1-2; 1993 Code)
SOLICITATION OF VIOLATION: A person commits solicitation when, with intent that
a violation of a specific provision of this Code be committed, he encourages or
requests another to commit a violation of this Code. (1976 Code §1-19)
STATE: The State of Illinois.
STREET: The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular traffic.
WHOLESALE, WHOLESALER, etc.: In all cases where the term "wholesale",
"wholesaler", or "wholesale dealer" is used in this Code, unless otherwise
specifically defined, it shall be understood and held to relate to the sale of
goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for purposes of
resale, as distinguished from a retail dealer who sells in smaller quantities
directly to the consumer.
WRITTEN or IN WRITING: Shall be construed to include any representation of
words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1976 Code §1-2; 1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 730 ILCS 5/5-12, 5/5-1-17; see also Section 1.401 of this Chapter.
ARTICLE IV
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1.401. General Penalty; Supervision
1.402. Violations; Additional Provisions
1.403. Application Of Provisions
1.404. Liability Of Officers
1.405. City Jail
Sec. 1.401. General Penalty; Supervision.
   A.   General Penalty: Whenever in this Code, or in any ordinance of the
City, any act or omission is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful
or a misdemeanor, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act or
the omission of a required act is declared to be unlawful or a misdemeanor,
where no specific penalty is provided therefor, and State law does not provide
otherwise, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance
shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine as specified in the master fee
schedule. Unless specifically provided otherwise, or the context thereof so
dictates, each day any violation of any provision of this Code or any ordinance
shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
Each day that any violation of any regulation contained in this Code has been
determined to exist or has been permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   B.   Supervision:
      1.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, upon
any prosecution for any violation of any section of this Code, the court may,
in lieu of or in addition to any other penalty or finding, impose
"supervision", being a disposition of conditional and revocable release without
probationary supervision, but under such conditions and reporting requirements
as may be imposed by the court. Conditions and reporting requirements of
supervision shall be entered by the court by order deferring future proceedings
in the case and specifying any or all of the following:
         a.   The period of supervision (reasonable under all circumstances of
the case): up to two (2) years from the date of entry of the order; and/or
         b.   Requirement that defendant:
            (1)   Make a report to and appear in person before or participate
with the court or such courts, person or social service agency as directed by
the court in the order of supervision;
            (2)   Pay a fine and costs;
            (3)   Work or pursue a course of study or vocational training;
            (4)   Undergo medical or psychiatric treatment or treatment for
drug addiction or alcoholism;
            (5)   Attend or reside in a facility established for the
instruction or residence of defendants on probation;
            (6)   Support his dependents;
            (7)   Refrain from possessing a firearm or other dangerous weapon;
            (8)   And in addition, if a minor:
               (A)   Resides with his parents or in a foster home;
               (B)   Attends school;
               (C)   Attends a nonresidential program for youth;
               (D)   Contributes to his own support at home or in a foster
home.
            (9)   Make restitution or reparation in an amount not to exceed
actual loss or damage to property and pecuniary loss. The court shall determine
the amount and conditions of payment; and/or
            (10)   Perform some reasonable public service work such as, but not
limited to, the picking up of litter in public parks or along public highways
or the maintenance of public facilities.
      2.   In the event the court enters an order of supervision, if the court
determines that the defendant has successfully complied with all of the
conditions of supervision, the court shall discharge the defendant and enter a
judgment dismissing the charge. Discharge and dismissal upon a successful
conclusion of a disposition of supervision shall be deemed without adjudication
of guilt and shall not be termed a conviction for purposes of disqualification
or disabilities imposed by law upon conviction of a misdemeanor.
      3.   No person assigned to a public service employment program shall be
considered an employee for any purpose, nor shall the County Board of DuPage
County or City Council be obligated to provide any compensation to such person.
      4.   A disposition of supervision is a final order for the purpose of
appeal. (Ord. 1197, 7-15-1982)
Sec. 1.402. Violations; Additional Provisions.
   A.   Solicitation Of Violation:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to solicit another to commit a
violation of this Code.
      2.   Defense: It shall be a defense that if the unlawful object of the
solicitation were achieved, the accused would not be guilty of a violation of
this Code.
      3.   Restrictions on Convictions: No person shall be convicted of both
soliciting a violation of this Code and violating specific provision of which
it has been charged that such person solicited the violation. (1976 Code §1-19)
   B.   Conspiracy:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to conspire to violate any specific
provision of this Code.
      2.   Defense:
         a.   It shall not be a defense to conspiracy that the person or
persons with whom the accused is alleged to have conspired:
            (1)   Has not been prosecuted or convicted.
            (2)   Has been convicted of a different violation of this Code.
            (3)   Is not amenable to justice.
            (4)   Has been acquitted.
            (5)   Lacked the capacity to commit an offense.
         b.   It shall be a defense that if the unlawful object of the
conspiracy were achieved, the accused would not be guilty of a violation of
this Code.
      3.   Restrictions on Convictions: No person shall be convicted of both
conspiring to violate a specific provision of this Code and violating such
specific provision. (1976 Code §1-20)
   C.   Attempts at Committing Violations:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to attempt to commit a specific
violation of any of the provisions of this Code.
      2.   Defense: It shall not be a defense to a charge of attempt that
because of a misapprehension of the circumstances it would have been impossible
for the accused to commit the violation attempted.
      3.   Restrictions on Convictions: No person shall be convicted of both
attempting to commit a specific violation of this Code and such specific
violation. (1976 Code §1-21)
   D.   Accountability for Acts of Another; Aiding and Abetting: A person is
legally accountable for the conduct of another when:
      1.   A specific provision of this Code makes him so accountable.
      2.   Either before or during the commission of a violation of this Code,
and with the intent to promote or facilitate such commission, he solicits,
aids, abets, agrees or attempts to aid such other person in the planning or
commission of such violation. However, a person is not so accountable, unless
the Code provision defining the offense provides otherwise, if:
         a.   He is a victim of the violation committed.
         b.   The violation is so defined that his conduct was inevitably
incidental to its commission.
         c.   Before the commission of the violation, he terminates his effort
to promote or facilitate such commission and either wholly deprives his prior
efforts of effectiveness in such commission or gives timely warning to the
proper law enforcement authorities or otherwise makes proper effort to prevent
the commission of such violation. (1976 Code §1-22)
Sec. 1.403. Application of Provisions.
The penalty provided in this Article shall be applicable to every section of
this City Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate
section.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this City Code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty from being enforced.
Wherever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this City Code and there shall be no fine
or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
Article shall apply. (1993 Code)
Sec. 1.404. Liability of Officers.
No provision of this City Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1993 Code)
Sec. 1.405. City Jail 1 .
   A.   Established: There is hereby established a City jail. The jail shall be
used only as a holding facility for persons arrested pending their transfer to
some other jail or institution. (Ord. 1409, 6-18-87; 1993 Code)
   B.   Escape from Custody or Jail: It shall be unlawful for any person to
escape from the lawful custody of any police officer or to escape from the City
jail. (1976 Code §17-6)
   C.   Communications with Prisoners: It shall be unlawful for any person to
communicate with any prisoner held in the jail without the permission of the
Chief of Police or the police officer in charge. (1976 Code §17-7)
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating subsections B or C of this Section shall
be fined not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 1326, 12-5-85)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 14.102B2 of this Code, Chief of Police as keeper of jail.
ARTICLE V
CITY FINANCES
SECTION:
1.501. Budget
1.502. Municipal Funds; Audit; Special Fees
1.503. Surety Bonds
1.504. Contracts
1.505. Approval Of Bills
1.506. Wage Rates For Public Works Employees
1.507. Benefits For Disabled Persons (Rep. by Ord. O-18-005, 2-1-2018)
1.508. Reimbursement Of City For Consultation Costs (Rep. by Ord. O-18-005, 2-
1-2018)
1.509. Investment Policy
1.510. Returned Payment Item Fee
Sec. 1.501. Budget.
   A.   State Law Provisions Adopted: 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-2-9.1
through 5/8-2-9.7, 5/8-2-9.9 and 5/8-2-9.10 are hereby adopted as the Municipal
budget procedure for the City in lieu of an annual appropriation ordinance.
(1976 Code §2-191)
Sec. 1.502. Municipal Funds; Audit; Special Fees.
   A.   Depositories Designated: The Council shall, from time to time,
designate the depositories in which the funds and monies belonging to the City
in the custody of the City Treasurer, and also all money in the custody of the
City Treasurer collected by the City to pay principal and interest on special
assessment bonds, shall be kept. The City shall, consistent with its Investment
Policy, secure the necessary documentation relative to the good standing status
of said depositories. (Ord. O-18-005, 2-1-2018)
   B.   Separate Account For Special Assessment Bonds; Withdrawal:
      1.   The Finance Director shall keep all money collected by the City for
payment of principal and interest on special assessment bonds in a separate
account or accounts in said depositories from the account or accounts in which
money belonging to the City is deposited.
      2.   When it has been determined that there are sufficient funds
available for payment of principal and interest, either in part or in full,
from any special assessment warrant in collection, then the total amount
available for payment may be withdrawn from the Special Assessment Fund in the
manner directed in subsection D of this section. Said funds may be deposited in
an authorized depository in a special assessment disbursement account to be
disbursed by check to the holder or holders of the bonds and interest coupons
upon which payment is being made. All checks drawn upon the special assessment
disbursement account shall be signed by any two (2) of: the City Treasurer and
the City Council Finance Committee Chairman or Vice Chairman.
   C.   General And Special Accounts: The City Treasurer is authorized to
maintain in each depository one general account and such special accounts as he
deems expedient for the deposit of funds that are in his custody as City
Treasurer belonging to the City. (Ord. 1411, 7-16-1987)
   D.   Withdrawal Of Funds; Signatures Required: The City Treasurer, City
Finance Committee Chairman and Vice Chairman, as well as others authorized by
the City, are designated as authorized signators for withdrawals from accounts
in the name of the City. The City's designated depository banks are authorized
hereby to pay withdrawals from all accounts in the name of the City upon the
signature of the designated signators. (Ord. O-18-005, 2-1-2018)
   E.   Wire Transfers: Wire transfers from all accounts in the name of the
City may be made at the direction of the City Finance Director; provided, that
such wire transfers are made for credit to accounts in the name of the City.
   F.   Annual Audit Required: As soon as practicable at the close of each
fiscal year, and not later than six (6) months thereafter, there shall be an
audit of all accounts of the City, made by a competent person authorized to act
as an auditor under the laws of Illinois, to be designated by the City Council.
Copies of such audit report shall be filed with the City Clerk and with the
Director of the State Department of Revenue, and in such other places as may be
required by law.
   G.   Cancellation Of Old Bonds: The City Treasurer shall enter upon the
appropriate bond issue records of the City, the words "Canceled - Revenue
Uncollectible" in all cases where the payment of the tax levied or the specific
revenue provided for the payment of the principal and interest on said bonds
has been delinquent for a period of thirty (30) years. All money held for the
payment of such bonds may be used thereafter for any general corporate purpose.
(Ord. 1411, 7-16-1987)
Sec. 1.503. Surety Bonds.
   A.   To the extent not otherwise covered by the City's property/casualty
insurance coverage, whenever a surety bond is required relative to the exercise
of the duties and responsibilities of any office or position, the surety on
such bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do business in the
State of Illinois as a surety company. (Ord. O-18-005, 2-1-2018)
   B.   Whenever in its opinion additional sureties or an additional surety may
be needed on any bond to indemnify the City against loss or liability because
of the insolvency of the existing surety or sureties, or for any other reason,
the Council may order a new surety or sureties to be secured for such bond. If
such new surety or sureties are not procured within ten (10) days from the time
such order is transmitted to the principal of the bond or his assignee, the
Council shall declare the bond to be void, and thereupon, such principal or
assignee shall be deemed to have surrendered the privilege or position as
condition of which the bond was required. (1976 Code §1-18)
Sec. 1.504. Contracts 1 .
   A.   Contracts: The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts to which the City may be a party, which contracts exceed the
threshold as permitted by State Statute. All such contracts shall be entered
into by ordinance or resolution properly approved by the Council, in accordance
with State Statute, including the Illinois Open Meetings Act. All such
ordinances, unless circumstances so require, shall be referred to the
appropriate committee before consideration and passage by the Council.
   B.   Signatures On Contracts: The Mayor, or any other person designated by
the Council, may sign, on behalf of the City, any contract authorized by the
City. (Ord. O-18-005, 2-1-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 2.504F of this Code.
Sec. 1.505. Approval Of Bills.
All bills payable by the City, other than for the payment of salaries
established by the Council shall be submitted to the Council for approval
before payment. (1976 Code §2-195)
Sec. 1.506. Wage Rates For Public Works Employees.
   A.   Prevailing Rate: To the extent the prevailing rate of wages is
applicable to a project for the City, the general prevailing rate of wages for
laborers, mechanics and other workers engaged in public works projects for the
City of Wood Dale, said prevailing wage rates shall be set by the City on an
annual basis. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to the rate of wages
for City employees.
   B.   Rates Posted: The City Clerk shall publicly post, or make available,
for public inspection by any interested party, the determination of such
prevailing rate of wage. (Ord. O-18-005, 2-1-2018)
Sec. 1.507. Benefits For Disabled Persons.
(Rep. by Ord. O-18-005, 2-1-2018)
Sec. 1.508. Reimbursement Of City For Consultation Costs.
(Rep. by Ord. O-18-005, 2-1-2018)
Sec. 1.509. Investment Policy.
   A.   Policy: It is the policy of the City of Wood Dale to invest public
funds in a manner, which will provide the highest investment return with the
maximum security, while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the entity and
conforming to all state and local statutes governing the investment of public
funds.
   B.   Scope: This policy applies to the investment of all the City's funds,
excluding the investment of employees' retirement funds. Proceeds from certain
bond issues are covered by a separate policy.
      1.   Pooling of Funds: Except for cash in certain restricted and special
funds, the City of Wood Dale will consolidate cash and reserve balances from
all funds to maximize investment earnings and to increase efficiencies with
regard to investment pricing, safekeeping and administration. Investment income
will be allocated to the various funds based on their respective participation
and in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
   C.   Prudence: Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under
current circumstances, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital, as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be the
"prudent person" standard and shall be applied in the context of managing an
overall portfolio. Investment officials, acting in accordance with written
procedures and this investment policy and exercising due diligence, shall be
relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security's credit risk,
custodial credit risk or market price changes, provided that deviations from
expectations are reported in a timely manner and appropriate action is taken to
control adverse developments.
   D.   General Objectives: The primary objectives, in order of priority, shall
be:
   Legality - conformance with federal, state and other legal requirements
   Safety - preservation of capital and protection of investment principal
   Liquidity - maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements
   Yield - attainment of market rates of return
   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its effectiveness in
meeting the entity's needs for legality, safety, liquidity, rate of return,
diversification and its general performance.
      1.   Legality: The City's investments will be in compliance with all
federal, state and other legal statutes including Illinois state statutes
(Public Funds Investment Act, Chapter 30 ILCS 235), which governs the
investment of public funds.
      2.   Safety: Safety of principal, along with legality, are the foremost
objectives of the investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a
manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall
portfolio. The objective will be to mitigate credit risk, custodial credit
risk, and interest rate risk in the overall portfolio. The City shall diversify
its investments to minimize risks regarding individual securities.
         a.   Credit Risk: The City of Wood Dale will minimize credit risk,
which is the risk of loss due to the failure of the security issuer or backer,
by:
            (1)   Limiting investments to the types of securities listed in
Section VII (1) of this Investment Policy.
            (2)   Pre-qualifying the financial institutions, broker/dealers,
intermediaries, and advisers with which the City will do business in accordance
with division F.(1)of this policy.
            (3)   Diversifying the investment portfolio so that the impact of
potential losses from any one type of security or from any one individual
issuer will be minimized.
         b.   Interest Rate Risk: The City will minimize interest rate risk,
which is the risk that the market value of securities in the portfolio will
fall due to changes in market interest rates, by:
            (1)   Structuring the investment portfolio so that securities
mature to meet cash requirements for ongoing operations, thereby avoiding the
need to sell securities in the open market prior to maturity
            (2)   Investing operating funds primarily in shorter-term
securities, money market, or similar investment pools and limiting the average
maturity of the portfolio in accordance with this policy (see division H.(2)).
         c.   Custodial Credit Risk: Custodial credit risk for investments is
the risk that, in the event of the failure of the counterparty to the
investment, the City will not be able to recover the value of its investments
that are in possession of an outside party. To limit its exposure, the City's
investment policy requires all security transactions that are exposed to
custodial credit risk to be processed on a delivery versus payment basis with
the underlying investments held by an independent third-party custodian and
evidenced by safekeeping receipts. Illinois Funds, Illinois Trust and IMET are
not subject to custodial credit risk.
      3.   Liquidity: The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid
to meet all operating requirements that may be reasonably anticipated. This is
accomplished by structuring the portfolio so that securities mature
concurrently with cash needs to meet anticipated demands (static liquidity).
Furthermore, since all possible cash demands cannot be anticipated, the
portfolio should consist largely of securities with active secondary or resale
markets (dynamic liquidity). Alternatively, a portion of the portfolio may be
placed in Government money market funds or local government investment pools,
which offer same-day liquidity for short-term funds.
      4.   Yield: The investment portfolio shall be designed with the objective
of attaining a market rate of return throughout budgetary and economic cycles,
taking into account the legality, safety and liquidity objectives described
above.
      The core investments are to be limited to relatively low risk securities
in anticipation of earning a fair return relative to the risk being assumed.
Securities shall generally be held until maturity with the following
exceptions:
         a.   A security with declining credit may be sold early to minimize
loss of principal.
         b.   A security swap would improve the quality, yield, or target
duration in the portfolio.
         c.   Liquidity needs of the portfolio require that the security be
sold.
   E.   Delegation of Authority: Authority to manage the investment program is
granted to the Finance Director, hereinafter referred to as Investment Officer.
Responsibility for the operation of the investment program is hereby delegated
to the Investment Officer, who shall act in accordance with established written
procedures and internal controls for the operation of the investment program
consistent with this investment policy. The Investment Officer shall be
responsible for all transactions undertaken and shall establish a system of
controls to regulate the activities of subordinate officials.
   F.   Safekeeping and Custody:
      1.   Authorized Financial Dealers and Institutions: The Finance
Department shall maintain a list of financial institutions authorized by the
City Council to provide investment services. In addition, a list will also be
maintained of approved security broker/dealers selected by creditworthiness
(e.g. a minimum capital requirement of $10,000,000 and at least five years of
operation. These may include "primary" dealers or regional dealers that qualify
under Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net capital
rule). Broker/dealers must be certified with the National Association of
Security Dealers, be members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation
(SIPC) and be registered in the State of Illinois. Broker/dealers are also
required to furnish annual audited financial statements.
      All financial institutions and broker/dealers who desire to become
qualified for investment transactions must supply the following as appropriate:
         a.   Audited financial statements
         b.   Proof of National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD)
certification
         c.   Proof of state registration
         d.   Completed broker/dealer questionnaire
         e.   Certification of having read and understood and agreeing to
comply with the City's investment policy.
      An annual review of the financial condition and registration of qualified
financial institutions and broker/dealers will be conducted by the Investment
Officer.
      Quality of service, pricing, and fees shall also be factors evaluated
when considering a financial institution and/or broker/dealer.
      Investment managers and/or money managers may only be utilized by
specific approval of the City Council.
      2.   Ethics and Conflicts of Interest: Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or
that could impair their ability to make impartial decisions. Employees and
investment officials shall disclose any material interests in financial
institutions with which they conduct business. They shall further disclose any
personal financial/investment positions that could be related to the
performance of the investment portfolio. Employees and officers shall refrain
from undertaking personal investment transactions with the same individual with
whom business is conducted on behalf of the City.
      3.   Internal Controls: The Investment Officer is responsible for
establishing and maintaining an internal control structure designed to ensure
that the assets of the City are protected from loss, theft or misuse. Details
of the internal controls system shall be documented in an investment procedures
manual and shall be reviewed and updated annually. The internal control
structure shall be designed to provide reasonable assurance that these
objectives are met. The concept of reasonable assurance recognizes that (1) the
cost of a control should not exceed the benefits likely to be derived and (2)
the valuation of costs and benefits requires estimates and judgments by
management.
      The internal controls structure shall address the following points:
         a.   Control of collusion
         b.   Separation of transaction authority from accounting and record
keeping
         c.   Custodial safekeeping
         d.   Avoidance of physical delivery of securities
         e.   Clear delegation of authority to subordinate staff members
         f.   Written confirmation of transactions for investments and wire
transfers
         g.   Authorizations of wire transfers
         h.   Development of a wire transfer agreement with the lead bank and
third-party custodian
      Accordingly, the Investment Officer shall establish a process for an
annual independent review by an external auditor to assure compliance with
policies and procedures or alternatively, compliance should be assured through
the City's annual independent audit.
      4.   Delivery vs. Payment: All trades of marketable securities will be
executed by delivery vs. payment (DVP) to ensure that securities are deposited
in an eligible financial institution prior to the release of funds.
      5.   Safekeeping: Securities will be held by a [centralized] independent
third-party custodian selected by the entity as evidenced by safekeeping
receipts in the City's name and a written custodial agreement. The safekeeping
institution shall annually provide a copy of their most recent report on
internal controls (Statement of Auditing Standards No. 70, or SAS 70).
   G.   Suitable and Authorized Investments:
      1.   Investment Types: Consistent with the GFOA Policy Statement on State
and Local Laws Concerning Investment Practices, the following investments will
be permitted by this policy and are those defined by state and local law where
applicable; the City may invest in any type of security permitted by law
regarding investment of public funds. Authorized investments include the
following:
         a.   Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, treasury bills,
treasury strips, or other securities, which are guaranteed by the full faith
and credit of the United States of America (USA);
         b.   Bonds, notes, debentures or other similar obligations of the USA
or its Agencies;
         c.   Interest bearing savings and checking accounts, non-negotiable
certificates of deposit, or any other investment constituting direct
obligations of any financial institution as defined by the Illinois Banking Act
and that is FDIC insured or collateralized;
         d.   The Illinois Funds Investment Pool;
         e.   The Illinois Metropolitan Investment Fund;
         f.   The Illinois Trust, Local Government Investment Pools;
         g.   Government money market funds permissible under state law.
      An additional restriction shall be placed on investments in derivative
securities. Derivative investments are restricted to those investment types
listed above.
      The City shall utilize a competitive process to evaluate the selection of
individual investments when seeking securities with a term maturity. The City
shall seek quotes from at least three participants in the investment program.
The quote, which provides the best financial benefit to the City, will be
selected for the investment unless it is deemed of greater benefit for funds to
be invested in an interest bearing savings account, checking account, The
Illinois Funds, The Illinois Trust, The Illinois Metropolitan Investment Fund,
or a money market.
      2.   Collateralization: Where allowed by state law and in accordance with
the GFOA Recommended Practices on the Collateralization of Public Deposits,
full collateralization will be required on all demand deposit accounts,
including checking accounts and non-negotiable certificates of deposit in
excess of applicable FDIC insurance. The City will accept any of the following
assets as collateral:
         a.   U.S. Government Securities;
         b.   Obligations of Federal Agencies;
         c.   Obligations of Federal Instrumentation;
         d.   Obligations of the State of Illinois;
         e.   Obligations of the City of Wood Dale;
         f.   General Obligation Municipal Bonds rated "A1" or better;
         g.   Any other collateral identified in Illinois law as acceptable for
use by the City of Wood Dale.
      The City reserves the right to accept/reject any individual security
including those of a type named above.
      The amount of collateral provided will be not less than 105% of the fair
market value of the net amount of public funds secured. Pledged security shall
be held in safekeeping by an independent third party custodian (depository) or
by the Federal Reserve Bank in the name of the municipality. Financial
institutions must enter into a written collateral agreement with the City. The
provisions and terms of the agreement must be in a form that meets the approval
of the City Attorney.
      Third party safekeeping is required for all collateral. To accomplish
this, the pledged securities will be held at a safekeeping depository, separate
from the bank where the deposits are placed, as approved from time to time by
the Investment Officer. Regular reporting is required to verify that the
pledged securities are in accordance with the policy.
   H.   Investment Parameters:
      1.   Diversification: In order to reduce the risk of default, the City
shall diversify its investment by security type and institution. The investment
portfolio of the City shall not exceed the following diversification limits
unless specifically authorized by the City Council of Trustees.
         a.   U.S. Treasury securities shall not exceed 90% of the investment
portfolio.
         b.   U.S. Government agency investments shall not exceed 50% of the
investment portfolio with no more than 20% of the portfolio invested in the
obligations of a single agency.
         c.   Financial institution certificates of deposit shall not exceed
75% of the portfolio.
         d.   Investments in the Illinois Metropolitan Investment Fund shall
not exceed 50% of the portfolio.
         e.   Investments in Government money market funds shall not exceed 75%
of the portfolio.
         f.   Deposits in the Illinois Funds & the Illinois Trust shall not be
limited.
      2.   Maximum Maturities:
      To the extent possible, the City shall attempt to match its investments
with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a specific cash
flow, the City will not directly invest in securities maturing more than five
(5) years from the date of purchase or in accordance with state and local
statutes and ordinances. The City shall adopt weighted average maturity
limitations (which often range from 90 days to 3 years), consistent with the
investment objectives.
      Reserve funds and other funds with longer-term investment horizons may be
invested in securities exceeding five (5) years if the maturities of such
investments are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with the expected use
of funds. The intent to invest in securities with longer maturities shall be
disclosed in writing to the legislative body.
      Because of inherent difficulties in accurately forecasting cash flow
requirements, a portion of the portfolio should be continuously invested in
readily available funds such as local government investment pools, money market
funds, or overnight repurchase agreements to ensure that appropriate liquidity
is maintained to meet ongoing obligations.
   I.   Reporting:
      1.   Methods: The Investment Officer shall prepare an investment report
at least quarterly, including a management summary that provides an analysis of
the status of the current investment portfolio and the individual transactions
executed over the last quarter. This management summary will be prepared in a
manner, which will allow the City to ascertain as to whether investment
activities during the reporting period have conformed to the investment policy.
The report should be provided to the entity's chief administrative officer and
the legislative body. The report will include the following:
         a.   Listing of individual securities held at the end of the reporting
period.
         b.   Realized and unrealized gains or losses resulting from
appreciation or depreciation by listing the cost and market value of securities
over one-year duration that are not intended to be held until maturity (in
accordance with Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) requirements).
         c.   Average weighted yield to maturity of portfolio on investments as
compared to applicable benchmarks.
         d.   Listing of investment by maturity date.
         e.   Percentage of the total portfolio which each type of investment
represents.
         f.   Results of bids for securities purchased during the previous
quarter.
      2.   Performance Standards:
      The investment portfolio will be managed in accordance with the
parameters specified within this policy. The portfolio should obtain a market
average rate of return during a market/economic environment of stable interest
rates. A series of appropriate benchmarks shall be established against which
portfolio performance shall be compared on a regular basis. The benchmarks
shall be reflective of the actual securities being purchased and risks
undertaken and the benchmarks shall have a similar weighted average maturity as
the portfolio.
      The City's investment strategy is generally passive, meaning securities
are intended to be held to maturity. Given this strategy, the benchmark to be
utilized to determine if market yields are being achieved shall be the 90 day
U.S. Treasury Bill.
      3.   Marking to Market: The market value of the portfolio shall be
calculated at least quarterly, and a statement of the market value of the
portfolio shall be issued at least quarterly. This will ensure that review of
the investment portfolio, in terms of value and price volatility, has been
performed consistent with the GFOA Recommended Practice on "Mark-to-Market
Practices for State and Local Government Investment Portfolios and Investment
Pools." In defining market value, considerations should be given to the GASB
Statement 31 pronouncement.
   J.   Policy Considerations:
      1.   Exemption: Any investment currently held that does not meet the
guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from the requirements of this
policy. At maturity or liquidation, such monies shall be reinvested only as
provided by this policy.
      2.   Amendments: This policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis. Any
changes must be approved by the City Council in consultation with the
individuals charged with maintaining internal controls.
   K.   Approval of Investment Policy: The investment policy shall be formally
approved and adopted by the City Council of the City of Wood Dale and reviewed
annually. (Ord. O-11-013, 9-1-2011; amd. Ord. O-20-031, 11-5-2020)
Sec. 1.510. Returned Payment Item Fee.
   A.   Any person or entity shall be assessed a returned item fee as specified
in the master fee schedule if any payment to the City is returned to the City
by the City's depository institution as not paid, dishonored, stopped or other
action resulting in nonpayment. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   B.   If a returned item is the result of fraud or banking error, the
returned item fee may be waived. (Ord. O-10-015, 10-21-2010)
ARTICLE VI
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1.601. Election Wards
1.602. Voter Registration; Eligibility
1.603. Conduct Of Elections
1.604. Inauguration Date
Sec. 1.601. Election Wards.
The city shall consist of four (4) wards configured as the city council may by
ordinance, from time to time, designate. During the fiscal year commencing May
1, 2002, and thereafter (until such time as this section is further amended, if
at all), regular municipal elections of persons for the office of alderman
shall be held pursuant to the statutes of the state of Illinois, made and
provided, for the wards hereby established, described as follows:
WARD 1: All that area and territory located within the corporate limits of the
city of Wood Dale lying south of the center line of the right of way of the
Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul Railroad and Pacific Railroad and lying easterly
of a line described as beginning at the intersection of the center line of the
right of way of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul Railroad and Pacific Railroad
with the center line of Wood Dale Road and running thence southerly along said
center line of Wood Dale Road to an intersection with the westerly extension of
the southerly line of Murray Drive; thence easterly along said southerly line
of Murray Drive to the east line of Crestwood Estates Subdivision in Section
15, Township 40 North, Range 11, east of the Third Principal Meridian,
according to the plat thereof recorded as Document R63-012443; thence southerly
along said last described east line to the southerly line of the corporate
limits of the city of Wood Dale.
WARD 2: All that area and territory located within the corporate limits of the
city of Wood Dale lying south of the center line of the right of way of the
Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad, lying westerly of a line
described as beginning at the intersection of the center line of the right of
way of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad with the center
line of Wood Dale Road and running thence southerly along said center line of
Wood Dale Road to an intersection with the westerly extension of the southerly
line of Murray Drive; thence easterly along said southerly line of Murray Drive
to the east line of Crestwood Estates Subdivision in Section 15, Township 40
North, Range 11, east of the Third Principal Meridian, according to the plat
thereof recorded as Document R63-012443; thence southerly along said last
described east line to the southerly line of the corporate limits of the city
of Wood Dale, and lying easterly of a line described as beginning at the
intersection of the center line of George Street and the center line of
Prospect Avenue and running thence easterly along said center line of George
Street to the center line of Hoover Drive; thence southerly along said center
line of Hoover Drive to the center line of Park Lane; thence easterly along
said center line of Park Lane to an intersection with the northerly extension
of the east line of Orchard Lakes Subdivision in Section 16, Township 40 North,
Range 11, east of the Third Principal Meridian, according to the plat thereof
recorded as Document R87-101747, said last described line being also the
easterly line of Station Drive; thence southerly along said last described
northerly extension and along the east line of said Orchard Lakes Subdivision
to the south line of the northwest 1/4 of said Section 16; thence westerly
along the south line of the northwest 1/4 of said Section 16 to the west line
of said Section 16, being also the center line of Prospect Avenue; thence
southerly along the west line of said Section 16 to the most westerly southwest
corner of Elizabeth Park Condominium, 15th amendment recorded as Document R88-
011079; thence in a general easterly direction along the southerly line of said
Elizabeth Park Condominium, 15th amendment and along said southerly line
extended, to the center line of Addison Road; thence southerly along said
center line of Addison Road to the south line of said Section 16.
WARD 3: All that area and territory located within the corporate limits of the
city of Wood Dale in the west 1/2 of Section 16 and the east 1/2 of Section 17,
Township 40 North, Range 11, east of the Third Principal Meridian, lying
westerly of a line described as beginning at the intersection of the center
line of George Street and the center line of Prospect Avenue and running thence
easterly along said center line of George Street to the center line of Hoover
Drive; thence southerly along said center line of Hoover Drive to the center
line of Park Lane; thence easterly along said center line of Park Lane to an
intersection with the northerly extension of the east line of Orchard Lakes
Subdivision in Section 16, Township 40 North, Range 11, east of the Third
Principal Meridian, according to the plat thereof recorded as Document R87-
101747, said last described line being also the easterly line of Station Drive;
thence southerly along said last described northerly extension and along the
east line of said Orchard Lakes Subdivision to the south line of the northwest
1/4 of said Section 16; thence westerly along the south line of the northwest
1/4 of said Section 16 to the west line of said Section 16, being also the
center line of Prospect Avenue; thence southerly along the west line of said
Section 16 to the most westerly southwest corner of Elizabeth Park Condominium,
15th amendment recorded as Document R88-011079; thence in a general easterly
direction along the southerly line of said Elizabeth Park Condominium, 15th
amendment and along said southerly line extended, to the center line of Addison
Road; thence southerly along said center line of Addison Road to the south line
of said Section 16.
WARD 4: All that area and territory located within the corporate limits of the
city of Wood Dale lying north of the center line of the right of way of the
Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad.
(Ord. 2098, 2-7-2002, eff. 5-1-2002)
Sec. 1.602. Voter Registration; Eligibility.
The provisions of the general election law contained in chapter 10 of Illinois
Compiled Statutes shall govern voter registration in the city. (1976 Code §2-
21; amd. 1993 Code)
Only registered, qualified persons shall be entitled to vote in city elections.
(1976 Code §2-23)
Sec. 1.603. Conduct Of Elections.
All elections for the city, be they general municipal elections or special
municipal elections, shall be conducted in compliance with the general election
law or as set forth in chapter 65 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (1976 Code
§2-22; amd. 1993 Code)
Elections for city offices shall be held at the time prescribed by law. (1976
Code §2-24)
Sec. 1.604. Inauguration Date.
In accordance with the statutes of the state of Illinois, the terms of elected
officers of the city are hereby declared to commence at the first meeting of
the city council occurring during the month of May following the canvass and
proclamation of the results of the regular municipal election conducted at
which such officers were elected. (Ord. O-07-013, 4-19-2007)
ARTICLE VII
ANNEXATIONS/ZONING RELIEF APPLICATION FEE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
1.701. Annexation Petitions
1.702. Annexation Fees
Sec. 1.701. Annexation Petitions.
All petitions for annexation of property shall be in accordance with law and
shall be submitted with a plat accurately drawn to scale and depicting the
property to be annexed and contain an accurate legal description of the
property to be annexed 1 . (1976 Code §1-15; amd. 1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-1 et seq.
Sec. 1.702. Annexation Fees.
All petitions for annexation shall be accompanied by the fee as specified in
the master fee schedule, unless otherwise specified or allowed. (Ord. O-18-024,
7-19-2018)
ARTICLE VIII
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1.801. Corporate Seal
1.802. Disclosure Of Interest In Land Trusts
1.803. Ordinances
1.804. Indemnification
Sec. 1.801. Corporate Seal.
The Corporate Seal of the City shall be a circular disc which impresses the
words "City of Wood Dale, DuPage County, Ill." on the periphery thereof and
"City Seal" in the center 1 . (1976 Code §2-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 2.303A of this Code, City Clerk as custodian of seal.
Sec. 1.802. Disclosure Of Interest In Land Trusts.
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   BENEFICIAL INTEREST: Any interest, regardless of how small or minimum such
interest may be, in a land trust held by a trustee for the benefit of
beneficiaries of such land trust.
   BENEFICIARY: Any person, body politic, corporate or other entity having a
beneficial interest in a land trust.
   LAND TRUST: Any express agreement or arrangement whereof a use, confidence
or trust is declared of any land, or of any charge upon land, for the use or
benefit of any beneficiary under which the title to real property, either legal
or equitable, is held by a trustee, subject only to the execution of the trust,
which may be enforced by the beneficiaries who have the exclusive right to
manage and control the real estate, to have the possession thereof, to receive
the net proceeds from the rental, sale, hypothecation or other disposition
thereof, and under which the interest of the beneficiary is personal property
only. (1976 Code §32-1)
   B.   Disclosure Of Beneficiary Interests Required: Whenever any trustee of a
land trust or whenever any beneficiary or beneficiaries of a land trust make
application to the City for any benefit, authorization, zoning amendment,
variance, special use, license and/or permit relating to the land which is the
subject of such land trust or permit relating to any interest therein,
improvements thereto or use thereof, such application shall identify each and
every beneficiary of such land trust by name and address and define his
interest therein and shall be filed along with a certified copy of such land
trust agreement.
All such applications shall be verified by the applicant in his capacity of
trustee, or by the beneficiary as a beneficiary owner of an interest in such
land trust.
If such application is filed by a body politic or other corporate entity, it
shall be verified by a duly authorized officer of such body politic or other
corporate entity for whom the application is made.
   C.   Violations; Penalty:
      1.   Violations:
         a.   Whoever, in swearing to or in affirming an application, as
required under subsection B of this section, either makes a false statement as
to the identification of beneficiaries of a land trust or makes a false
statement material to an issue or point in question on such application shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
         b.   Whoever, having taken a lawful oath or having made affirmation,
shall testify wilfully and falsely as to any of such matters for the purpose of
inducing the approval of any benefit, authorization, zoning amendment,
variance, special use, license and/or permit relating to any interest therein,
improvements thereto or use thereof, or whoever shall suborn any other person
to so swear, affirm or testify is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1976 Code §32-2)
      2.   Penalty: Any person or property found in violation of any provision
of this chapter shall be subject to enforcement as defined in article IV of
this chapter. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 1.803. Ordinances.
   A.   Ordaining Clause: The ordaining clause of all ordinances shall be: "Be
it ordained by the City Council of the City of Wood Dale". (1976 Code §2-1)
   B.   Publication: Ordinances need only be published as required by law 1 .
(1976 Code §2-2; amd. 1993 Code)
   C.   Record Of Ordinances: All ordinances passed by the City Council shall
be consecutively numbered and recorded by the City Clerk in a proper book or
books with indexes. The original shall be filed in the Office of the City
Clerk, shall list the names of all members of the City Council voting "aye" or
"nay" or absent, and due proof of publication of all ordinances requiring
publication shall be procured by the City Clerk, and such proof or affidavit of
publications shall be attached to and filed with the ordinances. The City Clerk
shall also note on his book of ordinances, at the foot of the record of each
ordinance, a memorandum of the date of the passage and if published or posted,
the date of the publication or posting of such ordinance. (1976 Code §1-9; amd.
1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4.
Sec. 1.804. Indemnification.
   A.   To the fullest extent permitted by the constitution of the state of
Illinois and applicable Illinois state law and subject to the applicable terms,
conditions and exclusions of any liability coverage documents of the city of
Wood Dale, the following officials or employees:
      1.   All persons who were, now are, or shall be lawfully elected,
appointed or employed officials of the city of Wood Dale;
      2.   All members of commissions, boards, or other units operated by and
under the jurisdiction of the city of Wood Dale, except for the following
commissions, boards or other units: school, airport, transit authorities,
hospital, municipally owned gas or electric companies, housing authorities or
port authorities;
      3.   All employees and all persons who perform a service on a volunteer
basis for the city of Wood Dale and under its direction and control and any
persons providing services to the city of Wood Dale under any mutual aid or
similar agreement;
      4.   Police and fire pension boards, their trustees, commissioners and
public officials; and
      5.   Employees (including police officers to the extent provided by
applicable law) and public officials of the city of Wood Dale serving on the
board of any independent government or intergovernmental or not for profit
organization, in which the city of Wood Dale has an affiliation, upon the
following conditions: Service on the board is approved by the city of Wood Dale
and furthers the interest of the city of Wood Dale; shall be indemnified,
defended and held harmless by the city of Wood Dale from and against all
liabilities for compensatory damages, expenses of investigation, attorney fees,
judgments and amounts paid in settlement which may be imposed upon or
reasonably incurred or paid by such official or employee in connection with or
resulting from any claim made against such official or employee, or any action,
suit, proceeding or investigation in which such official or employee is
involved by reason of such official's or employee's being or having been such
official or employee of the city of Wood Dale and acting within the scope of
such official's or employee's official duties or employment.
The foregoing rights of indemnification shall be in addition to any other
rights to which an official or employee of the city of Wood Dale may be
entitled as a matter of law.
   B.   In addition to any other rights to which an official or employee of the
city of Wood Dale may be entitled as a matter of law, to the fullest extent
permitted by the constitution of the state of Illinois and applicable Illinois
state law, in the event any claim or action based on an injury arising out of
an act or omission occurring within the scope of service to or employment by
the city is instituted against any current or former city of Wood Dale city
council member, a city of Wood Dale board or commission member (whether paid or
a volunteer), a board or commission member serving on a board or commission in
which the city has an affiliation and where such service is approved by the
city of Wood Dale, or employee of the city of Wood Dale and, in the event there
is no such insurance coverage as set forth in subsection A of this section by
reason of the conditions and exclusions of any liability coverage documents,
the city of Wood Dale shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless such present
or former official or present or former employee from and against all
liabilities, for compensatory damages, expenses of investigation, attorney
fees, judgments and amounts paid in settlement which may be imposed upon or
reasonably incurred or paid by such official or employee in connection with or
resulting from any claim made against such official or employee by reason of
such official's or employee's being or having been such official or employee of
the city of Wood Dale. (Ord. 2060, 3-1-2001)
CHAPTER 2
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2.101. Impersonating, Interfering With City Officers
2.102. Oath; Bond; Salary
2.103. Powers And Duties
2.104. Conservators Of The Peace
2.105. Inspection Of Records
2.106. Participation In Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
2.107. Membership In Intergovernmental Personnel Benefit Cooperative
2.108. State Officials And Employees Ethics Act
Sec. 2.101. Impersonating, Interfering With City Officers 1 .
   A.   Impersonation Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to impersonate, without
lawful authority, any city officer or employee. (1976 Code §17-4)
   B.   Interference Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to interfere with or
hinder any officer or employee of the city engaged in the duties of his office
or employment. (1976 Code §17-5)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 14.508B of this code.
Sec. 2.102. Oath; Bond; Salary.
   A.   Oath Of Office: Every officer of the city shall, before entering upon
his duties, take the oath prescribed by law 1 . (1976 Code §2-39)
   B.   Bond: Every officer or employee required to do so shall, upon entering
upon the duties of his office, give a bond in such amount and with such
sureties as may be required by the council, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of his office. (1976 Code §2-40)
   C.   Salaries: All officers and employees of the city shall receive such
salary as may from time to time be provided by ordinance or resolution. (1976
Code §2-38)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/5-3-9.
Sec. 2.103. Powers And Duties.
   A.   Pay Over Monies: Every officer of the city shall, at least once each
week, turn over all money received by him in his official capacity to the city
treasurer with a statement showing the source from which the same was received.
(1976 Code §2-44)
   B.   Inspections: Any officer or employee of the city who is authorized to
enforce ordinances may make such inspections as may be necessary to enforce
such ordinances or may make such inspection whenever such officer or employee
has reason to believe that there exists on or in any unoccupied premises in the
city any nuisance dangerous to public health, fire hazard, structural defect
likely to result in injury to person or property, or electric wiring or
equipment in such condition as to present a fire hazard or danger to persons or
the owner or custodian thereof. (1976 Code §2-45)
   C.   Surrender Effects Of Office: Every officer and employee of the city,
upon the expiration of his term, shall deliver to his successor all books and
records which may be the property of the city, and if no successor has been
appointed within one week after the termination of office, such property shall
be delivered to the city clerk. (1976 Code §2-42)
Sec. 2.104. Conservators Of The Peace.
Each member of the council, as well as every member of the police department 1
, is hereby declared to be a conservator of the peace. (1976 Code §2-46)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 14.104B4 of this code.
Sec. 2.105. Inspection Of Records.
All records kept by any officer of the city shall be open to inspection by the
mayor, any member of the council and/or the city manager. (1976 Code §2-43)
Sec. 2.106. Participation In Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund.
The city does elect to participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund,
effective January 1, 1971. All city employees eligible for enrollment in the
Illinois municipal retirement fund will be enrolled as of the first date on the
job. All city officers, upon entry into the duties of office, shall be enrolled
in Illinois municipal retirement fund by the City, however, for participation,
each city officer must elect, through execution of appropriate documentation,
whether they wish to participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund.
Failure of a City officer to complete the required documentation will affect
enrollment. (1976 Code §18-1; amd. 1993 Code; Ord. O-23-021, 8-3-2023)
Sec. 2.107. Membership In Intergovernmental Personnel Benefit Cooperative.
   A.   The mayor is hereby authorized to execute on behalf of this unit of
local government the contract and bylaws of the intergovernmental personnel
benefit cooperative. The clerk is hereby authorized to attest that execution. A
copy of the contract and bylaws is appended to and made a part of ordinance
1146 as exhibit 1, which ordinance shall be deemed hereafter as amended in its
entirety hereby and made a part of this code as set forth in this section.
   B.   The powers of the cooperative, unless the contract and bylaws be
amended, shall be limited to those contained within exhibit 1 aforesaid.
   C.   The commencement of the operations of the cooperative and the
obligation of this municipality to fully participate in such operations shall
be effectuated in accordance with article IV of the contract and bylaws.
   D.   Except to the extent of the limited financial contributions to the
cooperative set forth in exhibit 1, this local government by its entry as a
member of the cooperative shall not be held responsible in any way for claims
of any kind against any other member of the cooperative. (Ord. 1146, 5-7-1981;
amd. 1993 Code)
Sec. 2.108. State Officials And Employees Ethics Act.
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms shall be
given these definitions:
    CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of mayoral or vice
mayoral electors, but does not include activities: 1) relating to the support
or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action, 2)
relating to collective bargaining, or 3) that are otherwise in furtherance of
the person's official duties.
   CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in
section 3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
   COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
section, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4
of the election code 3 .
   EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the city of Wood Dale, whether on a full time
or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the
direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how
the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER: The city of Wood Dale.
   GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: 1)
compensation for employment, 2) service credit towards pension benefits, and 3)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: 1) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, 2) relating to collective bargaining, or
3) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk or election
authority under sections 5/6A-4 and 5/9-3 of the election code 4 , but only
with regard to those activities that require filing with the state board of
elections or a county clerk or election authority.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: 1. Preparing for, organizing, or
participating in any political meeting, political rally, political
demonstration, or other political event.
      2.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
      3.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
      4.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
      5.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
      6.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
      7.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
      8.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
      9.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
      10.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
      11.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
      12.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question.
      13.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
      14.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
      15.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
      1.   Is seeking official action: a) by an officer or b) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      2.   Does business or seeks to do business: a) with the officer or b)
with an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that
employee;
      3.   Conducts activities regulated: a) by the officer or b) by an
employee, or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
      4.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
   B.   Prohibited Political Activities:
      1.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the city in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
      2.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: a) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, b) as a condition of employment,
or c) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
      3.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate
in any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or
employee being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the
form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment
or otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional
compensation or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in
any prohibited political activity.
      4.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible
for an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties,
or activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary
basis which are not prohibited by this section.
      5.   No person either: a) in a position that is subject to recognized
merit principles of public employment or b) in a position the salary for which
is paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club.
   C.   Gift Ban:
      1.   Solicitation Or Acceptance Of Gifts: Except as permitted by this
subsection C, no officer or employee, and no spouse of or immediate family
member living with any officer or employee (collectively referred to herein as
"recipients"), shall intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any
"prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law
or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift
that violates this subsection C.
      2.   Exceptions: Subsection C1 of this section is not applicable to the
following:
         a.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
         b.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
         c.   Any: 1) contribution that is lawfully made under the election
code or 2) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
         d.   Educational materials and missions.
         e.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
         f.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
         g.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: 1) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; 2)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and 3) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
         h.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00)
per person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or 2) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
         i.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
         j.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this act, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
         k.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
         l.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection C2 is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.
      3.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or
an immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not
violate this section if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to
return a gift from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an
amount equal to its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income
taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now
or hereafter amended, renumbered, or succeeded.
   D.   Penalties:
      1.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of subsection B of
this section may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution
other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three hundred sixty
four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
      2.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of subsection C of
this section is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one thousand
one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      3.   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of this section to the local enforcement
authorities, the state's attorney or any other law enforcement official may be
punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a
penitentiary for a period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days,
and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00).
      4.   A violation of subsection B of this section shall be prosecuted as a
criminal offense by an attorney for the city by filing in the circuit court an
information, or sworn complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall
be under and conform to the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall
require the establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable
doubt.
A violation of subsection C of this section may be prosecuted as a quasi-
criminal offense by an attorney designated by the city through an
administrative procedure.
      5.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of subsections B and C of this section is subject to discipline or
discharge. (Ord. O-04-012, 5-6-2004)
   E.   Employment After Retirement:
      1.   In the event an elected officer of the city leaves elected office,
said elected officer shall be prohibited from becoming employed by the city, in
any full or part time capacity or with any city department for a period of
eighteen (18) months from the final day of term of office with the city
(hereinafter the "separation period").
      2.   The final day of the term of office shall be deemed to be the day
the officer leaves office. Any elected officer shall be eligible for
consideration for hire upon the conclusion of the separation period defined
above. (Ord. O-16-028, 9-1-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/6A-4, 5/9-3.
ARTICLE II
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
2.201. Composition; Powers And Duties
2.202. Mayor
2.203. Aldermen
2.204. Temporary Chairman
2.205. Meetings Of The Council
2.206. Rules Of Order And Business
Sec. 2.201. Composition; Powers And Duties.
The council shall consist of the mayor and eight (8) aldermen. (1976 Code §2-
58)
The city council shall constitute the legislative department of the city
government and shall set such policies and shall have such powers as may be
delegated to it by the statutes and the constitution of the state of Illinois 1
. The city council shall be composed of the mayor and aldermen as provided by
law. (1976 Code §2-61; amd. 1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 2.104 of this chapter.
Sec. 2.202. Mayor.
   A.   Bond: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the mayor shall
give a bond with sureties to be approved by the city council conditioned upon
his faithful performance of his duties, in the sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00). (1976 Code §2-59)
   B.   Oath; Salary:
      1.   On the date of his inauguration, a person duly elected or appointed
as mayor shall take the oath of office prescribed by statute. (Ord. O-02-032,
10-17-2002)
      2.   For performing the duties of the office of mayor, the mayor shall
receive as compensation the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) annually,
payable in twelve (12) equal monthly installments. (Ord. O-04-017A, 5-20-2004)
      3.   Any increase in the salary of any person elected or appointed to the
office of mayor shall not take effect during the term for which that person has
been elected or appointed. (Ord. O-02-032, 10-17-2002)
   C.   Presiding Officer; Voting Powers: The mayor shall be the presiding
officer at regular and special meetings of the council. He shall not vote on
any ordinance, resolution or motion, except:
      1.   Where the vote of the aldermen has resulted in a tie.
      2.   Where only one-half (1/2) of the aldermen elected have voted in
favor of an ordinance, resolution or motion, even though there is no tie vote.
      3.   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities is
required by the law.
This shall not be construed to deprive an acting mayor or mayor pro tem from
voting in his capacity as alderman, but he shall not be entitled to another
vote in his capacity as acting mayor or mayor pro tem.
   D.   Mayor Pro Tempore: If a temporary absence or disability of the mayor
incapacitates him from the performance of his duties but does not create a
vacancy in the office, the council shall elect one of its members to act as
mayor pro tem, who shall, during the mayor's absence or disability, perform the
duties and possess all the rights and powers of the mayor. (1976 Code §2-59)
Sec. 2.203. Aldermen.
   A.   Elected Officials; Term: Aldermen shall be elected to office for a four
(4) year term pursuant to the procedures provided by state statute. (1976 Code
§2-60)
   B.   Oath; Salary: Any person duly elected or appointed to the city council
as an alderman of the city shall take the oath of office as prescribed by
statute 1  and shall receive as compensation for the performance of his or her
duties an annual salary of seven thousand two hundred dollars ($7,200.00),
payable in twelve (12) equal monthly installments. Any increase in the salary
of any person elected or appointed to the city council shall not take place
during the term for which that person has been elected or appointed. (Ord. O-
04-017A, 5-20-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/5-3-9.
Sec. 2.204. Temporary Chairman.
In the absence of the mayor, acting mayor or mayor pro tem, the council may
elect an alderman to act as temporary chairman. He shall have only the powers
of a presiding officer and the right to vote in his capacity as an alderman.
(1976 Code §2-59)
Sec. 2.205. Meetings Of The Council 1 .
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the council shall be in the
municipal building on the first and third Thursdays of each month at seven
thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M.; provided that in the event any such meeting date
should occur on Christmas, New Year's Day, Memorial Day or the Fourth of July,
the meeting shall be held on the Thursday immediately following that meeting
date. (Ord. O-08-051, 12-18-2008)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the mayor or any
three (3) aldermen upon a twenty four (24) hour written notice to both the
public and to all members of the Council; provided, that the requirement or
written notice to Councilmen shall not be binding in any special meeting at
which all of the members of the Council are present. (1976 Code §2-62)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 14.508H of this code.
Sec. 2.206. Rules Of Order And Business.
   A.   Conduct Of Business:
      1.   Quorum: A majority of the Mayor and Aldermen shall constitute a
quorum to do business at any regular or special meeting, unless otherwise
provided in subsection A2 of this section. (1976 Code §2-63; amd. 1993 Code)
      2.   Ordinances, Resolutions And Motions:
         a.   With respect to ordinances and resolutions, the passage for
whatever purpose shall require:
            (1)   Placement on the City Council agenda in accordance with the
Illinois Open Meetings Act, as amended from time to time, including a public
recitation of the matter which is the subject of the ordinance or resolution.
(Except ordinances or resolutions on matters being referred from a properly
closed executive session may be acted upon in accordance with the requirements
of the Illinois Open Meetings Act.) (Ord. O-17-019, 9-7-2017)
            (2)   The concurrence of a majority of all the City Council then
holding office unless otherwise expressly provided by any other ordinance or
State Statute governing the passage of any specific ordinance.
         b.   With respect to resolutions and motions, the passage of the
following types of resolutions or motions shall require the concurrence of a
majority of all the City Council then holding office unless otherwise expressly
provided by any other ordinance or statute governing the passage of any such
specific resolution or motion:
            (1)   Resolutions or motions creating any liability against the
City;
            (2)   Resolutions or motions for the expenditure or appropriation
of the money of the City.
         c.   Proposed ordinances and resolutions shall be circulated among the
City Council at least three (3) days prior to the meeting at which they are
scheduled to be considered by the City Council; except, that this provision may
be waived upon the request of any two (2) members of the City Council. (1976
Code §2-63; amd. 1993 Code)
         d.   Proposed ordinances and resolutions shall not be numbered until
finally passed upon by the City Council.
            (1)   Ordinances shall be numbered consecutively, commencing with
the letter "O", followed by a hyphen and the last two (2) digits of the year
during which they were adopted, and then followed by another hyphen and the
number sequentially representing the matter which is the subject of the
ordinance; provided that such consecutive numbering shall terminate on December
31 of any such given year and shall commence anew at the beginning of the next
year.
            (2)   Resolutions shall also be numbered consecutively, commencing
with the letter "R", followed by a hyphen and the last two (2) digits of the
year during which they were passed, and then followed by another hyphen and the
number sequentially representing the matter which is the subject of the
resolution; provided that such consecutive numbering shall terminate on
December 31 of any such given year and shall commence anew at the beginning of
the next year. (Ord. O-03-036, 12-4-2003)
      3.   Voting; Declaration Of The Vote:
         a.   For the purposes of this subsection A3, a "majority of the City
Council" shall be more than one-half (1/2) of the Mayor and Aldermen then
holding office.
         b.   As a general rule, no member of the City Council shall vote on a
question in which he has a direct, personal or pecuniary interest. In such
case, the office of such person casting such "present" or "pass" vote shall be
deemed vacant.
         c.   While it is the duty of every member of the City Council who has
an opinion on any question to express it by his vote, such member cannot be
compelled to do so; such member may prefer to abstain from voting. In such
instances, a vote "present" or "pass" shall be considered a vote on the
prevailing side upon announcing the adoption or rejection of a motion on the
floor.
      4.   Disposition Of Ordinances; Approval Or Disapproval (Veto): All
ordinances, resolutions and motions which create any liability against the
City, or which provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, or to
sell any City or school property, and all ordinances, passed by the City
Council shall be deposited with the City Clerk.
If the Mayor approves of them, he shall sign them. Those of which he
disapproves, he shall return to the City Council with his written objections at
the next regular meeting of the City Council occurring not less than five (5)
days after their passage.
The Mayor may disapprove of any one or more sums appropriated in any ordinance,
resolution or motion making an appropriation, and, if so, the remainder shall
be effective. However, the Mayor may disapprove entirely of an ordinance,
resolution or motion making an appropriation.
If the Mayor fails to return any ordinance or any specified resolution or
motion with his written objections within the designated time, it shall become
effective despite the absence of his signature. (1976 Code §2-63; amd. 1993
Code)
   B.   Order Of Business (Regular Meetings Only):
      1.   Promptly at the hour set by ordinance on the date of each regular
meeting, the City Council, including the Mayor, as well as the City Clerk and
City Manager, shall take their places in the Council chambers of the Municipal
Building unless notice for the meeting specifies another place. (Ord. 2011, 4-
20-2000)
      2.   Immediately thereafter, the business of the City Council shall be
taken up as set forth on the written agenda circulated among the City Council
prior to the meeting date. The order of business shall be substantially as set
forth in the agenda which shall contain, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:
         a.   Call to order.
         b.   Roll call.
         c.   Pledge of Allegiance.
         d.   Approval of City Council minutes:
            (1)   Minutes of regular City Council meeting;
            (2)   Minutes of special City Council meeting, if any.
         e.   Public comment/communications and petitions:
            (1)   Citizens wishing to be heard;
            (2)   Written communiques and/or announcements.
         f.   Mayor's report (including announcements, proclamations,
appointments).
         g.   City Manager's report (including announcements).
         h.   Consent agenda (items referred by a committee with unanimous
approval):
            (1)   Omnibus vote (a single vote on referred committee items
receiving unanimous approval).
         i.   Committee Chair reports:
            (1)   Planning, Zoning and Building Committee;
            (2)   Public Health, Safety, Judiciary and Ethics Committee;
            (3)   Public Works Committee;
            (4)   Finance and Administration Committee.
         j.   Deferred agenda items.
         k.   Other business (ad hoc committee reports, announcements, requests
for placements of items on future committee or Council agendas).
         l.   Approval of list of bills.
         m.   Items for information only.
         n.   Executive session.
         o.   Items referred from executive session.
         p.   Adjournment.
      3.   A waiver of the rules for the purpose of discussing an item not on
the written agenda may be requested by any two (2) members of the City Council
and concurrence of a majority of all the City Council members present, provided
no final action can be taken on any matter which is not included in the agenda,
as required by the Illinois Open Meetings Act. (Ord. O-17-019, 9-7-2017)
All requests by Aldermen or the City Manager to add items to Council or
committee agendas after the agenda is published shall be made to the presiding
officer prior to calling the meeting to order, and all such items shall be
announced by the presiding officer as the first item of business under the
"Mayor's Report". Such items shall be added to the agenda upon approval of a
majority of the Aldermen.
It is understood that in the event an executive session is required or
requested the executive session will be called at an appropriate time during
the meeting or placed in an appropriate location on the agenda. (Ord. 2011, 4-
20-2000)
   C.   Reading Of Minutes Of Previous Meeting: Unless a reading of the minutes
of a previous Council meeting is requested by a member of the City Council,
such minutes may be approved without reading if the Clerk has previously
furnished each member of the City Council with a copy thereof. (1976 Code §2-
63; amd. 1993 Code)
   D.   Committees:
      1.   Standing Committees:
         a.   The following shall be the standing committees of the City
Council: (Ord. 2011, 4-20-2000)
            (1)   Planning, Zoning and Building;
            (2)   Public Health, Safety, Judiciary and Ethics;
            (3)   Public Works;
            (4)   Finance and Administration. (Ord. O-17-019, 9-7-2017)
         b.   All standing committees shall:
            (1)   Consist of eight (8) members each, including the Chairman;
            (2)   Hold their regular meetings in the Council chambers upon
proper legal notice;
            (3)   Forward a list of all items to be considered by such
committee to the City Clerk so that the said City Clerk shall maintain a
current docket of all matters in committee along with all other pending
matters. (Ord. 2011, 4-20-2000)
      2.   Special Committees: Special committees may be created from time to
time, as directed by the Mayor, upon the request of at least two (2) members of
the City Council, and shall consist of three (3) members each, unless the
Council shall otherwise direct, including the Chairman, designated by the
Mayor. (Ord. O-17-019, 9-7-2017)
      3.   Committee Of The Whole: Nothing in this section shall be so
construed as prohibiting the Mayor from calling a meeting of the Committee of
the Whole consisting of all the City Council. (Ord. 2011, 4-20-2000)
   E.   Other Rules Of Procedure: The following rules of procedure shall govern
the conduct of all meetings of the City Council, although these rules, other
than those prescribed by statute, may be suspended at any time upon proper
motion and consent of the majority of the City Council present at any meeting:
Rule I. The Mayor shall decide all questions of order and shall preside at all
meetings of the City Council.
Rule II.
      1.   Aldermen discussing a question shall address the Mayor, and no
Alderman has the floor until recognized by the Mayor.
      2.   No other person can address the Council unless being given
recognition by the Mayor.
Rule III. A roll call of "yeas" and "nays" shall be taken and recorded in the
journal of proceedings (minutes) for all ordinances, resolutions or
propositions which create any liability against or obligation on the part of
the City or for the expenditure or appropriation of its money and in all other
instances where requests therefor are made by any Alderman.
Rule IV. Following any hearing of any matter before any other commission or
board of the City, a detailed report of such commission or board, including a
recommended order or decision, shall be forwarded to the City Council by such
commission or board.
      1.   Such report shall include a minority view and recommendation, if
there is any.
      2.   The Chairman or at least one member of his standing committee of the
City Council shall be charged with reviewing the transcript of such hearing as
well as such report of such commission or board prior to the time the City
Council will ultimately decide the issues involved.
      3.   At the meeting of the City Council, the Chairman of a proper
committee may request that the report of such commission or board be referred
to his committee; provided, that he makes such request during the meeting but
prior to the matter being heard before the City Council. The same privilege
shall be accorded any other two (2) Aldermen; however, in addition, the
privilege shall be extended to that time after a hearing before the City
Council, but prior to a vote taken on the matter.
      4.   The City Council shall limit oral argument to ten (10) minutes
wherein such argument is made on behalf of petitioners.
Rule V. At any time prior to the matter being heard before the City Council,
any committee Chairman can order any item referred to his charge to be taken up
in his committee rather than to have it first considered by the full Council
for a final determination of the matter.
Rule VI. Any committee report to the Council can be deferred for final action
thereon to the next regular meeting of the Council after the report is made
upon the request of any two (2) Aldermen present.
Rule VII. When a motion is before the Council, no other motion shall be in
order but the following:
      1.   To adjourn;
      2.   To lay on the table;
      3.   To call the question;
      4.   To postpone indefinitely;
      5.   To postpone to a certain time;
      6.   To amend;
      7.   To send to committee.
Rule VIII. A motion to adjourn is always in order, except:
      1.   When a member is in possession of the floor.
      2.   When the "yeas" and "nays" are being called.
      3.   When adjournment was the last proceeding motion.
      4.   When it has been decided to call the question.
Rule IX. In all cases where the rules hereinabove are not applicable, the
Council shall be governed by parliamentary laws as laid down in "Robert's Rules
of Order, Revised".
In all other cases where the rules hereinabove are in conflict with "Robert's
Rules of Order, Revised", the former shall control the conduct of the meeting.
   F.   Enforcement Of Decorum: The Chief of Police or such member or members
of the Police Department as he may designate shall be Sergeant at Arms at all
regular and special meetings of the City Council. He shall carry out all orders
and instructions given by the Mayor for the purpose of maintaining order and
decorum at the said meeting. Upon instructions of the Mayor, it shall be the
duty of the Sergeant at Arms to place any person who violates the order and
decorum of the meeting under arrest and cause him to be prosecuted under the
provisions of this Code, the complaint to be signed by the Mayor.
Any person found guilty of violating this subsection shall be fined not less
than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense.
   G.   Reconsideration:
      1.   Generally: The vote upon the adoption of an ordinance, motion or
resolution of the Council may be reconsidered at the same meeting at which the
vote was taken or at the next regular meeting on motion of any Alderman
previously voting on the prevailing side of such ordinance, motion or
resolution. However, no ordinance, motion or resolution shall be rescinded
except by the same number of votes which were required to pass the matter
sought to be reconsidered.
      2.   Passage Over Veto Of Mayor: Every resolution and motion specified by
statute and every ordinance which is returned to the City Council by the Mayor
shall be reconsidered by the Council. After such reconsideration, if two-thirds
(2/3) of all the Council members then holding office on the Council shall agree
to pass an ordinance or resolution or a motion, it shall then be effective
notwithstanding the Mayor's refusal to approve it.
      3.   Rescinded Action; Special Meetings Only: No vote of the City Council
shall be reconsidered or referred at a special meeting, unless there are
present at that special meeting as many of the City Council as were present
when the vote was originally taken. (1976 Code §2-63; amd. 1993 Code)
ARTICLE III
CITY CLERK
SECTION:
2.301. Office Established; Vacancy
2.302. Bond; Salary
2.303. Duties
2.304. Deputy Clerk
Sec. 2.301. Office Established; Vacancy.
There is hereby established the office of city clerk, an executive office of
the city. The city clerk shall be elected as provided by law. (1976 Code §§2-
133, 2-134)
In case the office of city clerk shall become vacant for any reason, the mayor
and council shall appoint a successor as provided by law. (1976 Code §2-135)
Sec. 2.302. Bond; Salary.
   A.   Bond: Before entering upon his duties of office, the city clerk shall
execute a bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties. (1976
Code §2-137)
   B.   Salary:
      1.   For performing the duties of the office of city clerk, the city
clerk shall receive as compensation the sum of eight thousand five hundred
dollars ($8,500.00) annually, payable in twelve (12) equal monthly
installments. (Ord. O-04-017A, 5-20-2004)
      2.   Any increase in the salary of any person elected or appointed to the
office of city clerk shall not take effect during the term for which that
person has been elected or appointed. (Ord. O-02-032, 10-17-2002)
Sec. 2.303. Duties.
The city clerk shall have the duties set forth in this section. He shall:
   A.   Be the custodian of the city seal 1 .
   B.   Seal and attest all contracts of the city and all licenses, permits and
such other documents as require such formality.
   C.   Keep and maintain a proper index to all documents and records kept by
him so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be had.
   D.   Be the custodian of all documents belonging to the city which are not
assigned to the custody of some other officer.
   E.   Keep a record showing all city officers and employees.
   F.   Keep a record of all ordinances and resolutions.
   G.   Collect such monies on behalf of the city as may be designated by law.
He shall promptly turn them over to the city treasurer and state the source of
such monies.
   H.   Keep a register of all licenses and permits issued and the payments
thereon.
   J.   Keep accounts showing all money received by him and the source and
disposition thereof.
   K.   In addition to the duties herein provided, perform such other duties
and functions and keep such accounts as may be required by law. (1976 Code §2-
138)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1.801 of this code.
Sec. 2.304. Deputy Clerk.
When authorized by the city council, the city clerk may appoint one deputy city
clerk who need not be a resident of the city and who, during any temporary
absence of the city clerk from the place where the office of the city clerk is
maintained, is empowered to perform all the duties of the city clerk provided
either written direction has been given by the city clerk to such deputy to
exercise such power or the city council has determined by resolution that the
city clerk is temporarily or permanently incapacitated to perform such duties.
   A.   Signatures: When signing any document, the deputy clerk shall sign the
name of the city clerk followed with the word "By" and the deputy clerk's own
name and the words "Deputy Clerk". When duly authorized and affixed as herein
provided, the signature of the deputy clerk upon such document shall have the
same effect as if the document had been signed by the city clerk in person.
   B.   Full Time Employ: The person appointed to the position of deputy city
clerk shall be required to work the same hours per day and per week as other
employees of the city, shall be paid the salary established from time to time
by the city council, and shall be entitled to additional benefits as such other
employees. (Ord. 1812, 8-17-1995)
ARTICLE IV
CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
2.401. Office Established; Election
2.402. Bond; Salary
2.403. Duties
2.404. Custodian Of Police Pension Funds
Sec. 2.401. Office Established; Election.
There is hereby established the office of treasurer, an executive office of the
city. The city treasurer shall be elected as provided by law. (1976 Code §§2-
151, 2-152)
Sec. 2.402. Bond; Salary.
   A.   Bond: The treasurer shall give a bond before entering upon the duties
of his office in the amount required by the council, but such amount shall not
be less than that required by statute 1 . The bond shall be conditioned upon
the faithful performance of his duties as the treasurer and shall be
conditioned to indemnify the city for any loss by reason of any neglect of duty
or any act by him. (1976 Code §2-154)
   B.   Salary: The salary for the city treasurer shall be two thousand four
hundred dollars ($2,400.00) per year, payable in twelve (12) equal monthly
installments. Any increase in the salary of any person elected or appointed in
the office of city treasurer shall not take effect during the term for which
that person has been elected or appointed. (Ord. O-10-013, 10-7-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/5-3-9.
Sec. 2.403. Duties.
   A.   Receive Monies: The treasurer shall receive all money paid into the
city, whether directly from the person paying the money or from the hands of
such other officer or employee as may receive it. (1976 Code §2-155)
   B.   Deposit Of Funds: The treasurer shall deposit city funds in such
depositories as may be selected from time to time by the city council as
provided by law 1 ; he shall keep the deposit of the city's money separate and
distinct from his own money and shall not make private or personal use of any
city money. (1976 Code §2-156; amd. 1993 Code)
   C.   Payment Of Funds: All warrants drawn on the treasurer must be signed by
the mayor and countersigned by the city clerk stating the particular fund or
appropriation to which the same is chargeable and the person to whom payable.
The treasurer shall pay all such properly drawn warrants by cash, for which the
treasurer shall obtain the proper receipt, or by check or other draft signed by
the treasurer. (Ord. O-12-043, 12-6-2012)
   D.   Transfer Of Funds: Money shall not be transferred by the treasurer from
one fund to another after it has been received by him nor appropriated to any
other purpose than that for which it has been collected or paid, except as may
be ordered by the city council in manner and form prescribed by law. (1976 Code
§2-158)
   E.   Special Assessment Funds: All monies received on any special assessment
shall be held by the city treasurer as a special fund to be applied only to the
payment of the improvement, or bonds and vouchers issued therefor, together
with interest thereon, for which the assessment was made, and said money shall
be used for no other purpose unless to reimburse the city for money expended
for such improvement. Payments on bonds or vouchers shall be made in accordance
with law; he shall keep his books and accounts in such a manner so that proper
prorations in payments of principal and interest can be made and ascertained.
(1976 Code §2-159)
   F.   Books And Records:
      1.   The treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may be required
by law; he shall keep them in the manner required by the council. (1976 Code
§2-160)
      2.   The treasurer shall keep records showing all money received by him,
showing the source from which it is received, and the purpose for which it is
paid. (1976 Code §2-161)
      3.   The treasurer shall keep records at all times showing the financial
status of the city. (1976 Code §2-162)
      4.   In connection with the treasurer's duties to keep such books and
records as prescribed herein and to provide reports and an annual account as
authorized by sections 5/3.1-35-40 through 3.1-35-85 of the Illinois municipal
code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-35-40 through 3.1-35-85, the
treasurer, at his or her discretion, or at the direction of the city council,
is hereby authorized to: a) review monthly financial reports by the director of
finance prior to their distribution; b) randomly verify bills payable to ensure
that payments are to actual vendors or other payees, general ledger accounts to
ensure proper coding, payrolls to ensure that payment of wages and salaries are
to actual employees; c) randomly inspect actual physical assets purchased to
verify receipt in conformity with purchase orders; and d) report upon the same
to the city council. (Ord. O-12-043, 12-6-2012)
   G.   Other Duties: The treasurer shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by law. (1976 Code §2-163)
 
Notes
1 2. See subsection 1.502A of this code.
Sec. 2.404. Custodian Of Police Pension Funds.
The treasurer shall be the custodian of funds of city of Wood Dale board of
trustees of the police pension fund as provided for in section 5/3-125(d) of
the Illinois pension code, 40 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-125(d). (Ord. O-
12-043, 12-6-2012)
ARTICLE V
CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
2.501. Office Established; Appointment; Qualifications
2.502. Vacancies; Removal From Office
2.503. Bond; Compensation
2.504. Powers And Duties
Sec. 2.501. Office Established; Appointment; Qualifications.
The office of City Manager is hereby established. The Manager shall be
appointed by the Council for an indefinite term. He shall be chosen solely on
the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications with special
reference to his actual experience in, or his knowledge of, accepted practice
in respect to the duties of his office hereinafter set forth. (1976 Code §§2-
96, 2-98)
Sec. 2.502. Vacancies; Removal From Office.
   A.   Vacancy In Office: During the temporary absence or disability of the
City Manager, or during a vacancy in said office, the assistant City Manager
shall have the duties of the City Manager until such time as the Council shall
appoint an acting City Manager. (Ord. 1793, 4-20-1995)
   B.   Removal From Office: The Council may remove the City Manager from
office without cause at any time. (1976 Code §2-99; amd. 1993 Code)
Sec. 2.503. Bond; Compensation.
   A.   Bond: The City Manager shall furnish a bond in such amount and with
such surety as may be approved by the Council, said bond to be conditioned on
the faithful performance of his duties, and shall be conditioned to indemnify
the City for any loss by reason of any neglect of duty or any act of the City
Manager. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the City. (1976 Code §2-101)
   B.   Compensation: The City Manager shall receive such compensation as the
Council shall fix annually by ordinance. (1976 Code §2-102)
Sec. 2.504. Powers And Duties 1 .
The City Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the City and
shall be responsible for the efficient administration of all departments. To
the end that he is also responsible for the proper administration of the City,
the City Manager shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To enforce the laws and ordinances of and within the City. (Ord. 1171,
10-15-1981; amd. 1993 Code)
   B.   To appoint and remove all directors of departments and all officers who
are not required to be elected, except the City Collector and police officers,
with the understanding that the Director of the Police Department, the Police
Chief, shall be appointed by the City Manager and/or be removed by the City
Manager 2  and said Police Chief accordingly shall not be appointed by the
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners 3 . No such appointment shall be made
upon any basis other than that of merit and fitness. The Chief of the Police
Department may be removed or discharged by the City Manager provided the City
Manager shall file with the City Council the reasons for such removal or
discharge, which removal or discharge shall not become effective unless
confirmed by a majority vote of the said City Council. (Ord. 1171, 10-15-1981;
amd. 1993 Code; Ord. 1799, 5-4-1995)
   C.   To make recommendations to the City Council concerning compensation for
each appointive position in the City service, including minimum, intermediate
and maximum rates.
   D.   To attend all meetings of the City Council, with the right to take part
in the discussions of the Council, but with no right to vote. (The City Manager
shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special meetings of the City
Council.)
   E.   To recommend to the City Council for adoption such measures as he may
deem necessary or expedient.
   F.   Within the monetary limits as set forth in the State statutes, to
purchase all materials, supplies and equipment for which funds are provided in
the budget, but he may not purchase any item which exceeds any budget
appropriation until the Council has increased the appropriation. He may issue
rules and regulations governing requisitions and the transaction of the
business of purchasing between himself, as purchasing agent, and the heads of
departments, officers and employees of the City. In case of circumstances
creating an emergency, the City Manager may, without the prior consent of the
Council, award contracts and make purchases for the purpose of meeting said
emergency, but he shall promptly file with the Council a report of such
emergency and the necessity of such action, together with an itemized account
of all such expenditures.
   G.   To have all powers and exercise all the duties granted in the Illinois
Municipal Code to Municipal clerks and comptrollers with respect to the
preparation of a report of estimated funds necessary to defray the expenses of
the City for the fiscal year for the consideration of the City Council prior to
preparation of the annual budget.
   H.   To submit to the City Council, promptly following the end of the fiscal
year, a complete report on City finances and administrative activities for the
fiscal year.
   J.   To present to the Council each month a statement showing the exact
financial condition of the City as of the end of the preceding month and
showing amounts expended and unexpended balances for each department in
accordance with the annual budget.
   K.   To keep a current inventory of all real and personal property of the
City and the location of such property. He shall be responsible for the care
and custody of all City property not assigned to some other officer or body for
care and control.
   L.   To exercise control of all departments and divisions of such
departments as may be provided for in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5, or
that may be created by the City Council. Investigate all complaints in relation
to matters concerning the administration of City government and utilities
services maintained by the City, and see that all franchises, permits and
privileges granted by the City are faithfully observed.
   M.   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by article 5 of
chapter 65 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes or may be required of him by
ordinance or resolution of the City Council, including: the conveying of a
license, that is, an incorporeal hereditament or a nonpossessory interest in
land, to any person for the construction, installation and/or maintenance upon
or over public land owned or controlled by the City by such person of automatic
lawn sprinkling systems and of roadway entrance markers or other public,
charitable or aesthetic insignia. The said license shall not be granted or
conveyed, however, until:
      1.   The grantee shall have presented to the City specific drawings,
plans and specifications for the improvement to be erected and constructed upon
public lands involved.
      2.   The grantee and the City Manager shall sign an agreement approved by
the City Attorney which agreement shall hold harmless the City, its agents,
employees and representatives from any causes of action arising out of such
construction, installation and/or maintenance of such improvement upon or over
the said public property.
The document containing the license shall set forth the legal description of
the land, shall clearly indicate that the grantee will have no possessory
interest or estate in the land so described and that the license shall
terminate at any time at the pleasure of the City.
Both the license and the hold harmless agreement above- described shall be
filed with the City Clerk within ten (10) days after their execution, whereupon
the Building and Zoning Administrator of the City shall have the power and
authority to issue a building permit pursuant to the terms of said license.
(Ord. 1171, 10-15-1981; amd. 1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/5-3-7.
2 1. 65 ILCS 5/5-3-7.
3 2. See also subsections 3.604A and 14.102A of this Code.
ARTICLE VI
CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
2.601. Office Established; Appointment
2.602. Duties
2.603. Special Counsel
Sec. 2.601. Office Established; Appointment.
There is hereby established the position of city attorney. The city attorney
shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city
council. (Ord. O-06-045, 7-20-2006)
Sec. 2.602. Duties.
   A.   Legal Advisor: The city attorney shall be the legal advisor of the city
and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the city whenever
requested to do so by any city official. Upon request by the mayor, he shall
reduce any such opinion to writing. (1976 Code §2-116)
   B.   Draft Documents: It shall be the duty of the city attorney to draft or
supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or other document or
instrument to which the city may be a party, and upon request by the council,
to draft ordinances or resolutions. (1976 Code §2-117)
   C.   Litigation: The city attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all
suits or actions at law or equity to which the city may be a party, or in which
it may be interested, or which may be brought against or by any officer of the
city on behalf of the city or in the capacity of such person as an officer of
the city. (1976 Code §2-118)
   D.   Enforcement Of Judgments And Decrees: It shall be the duty of the city
attorney to see and enforce all judgments, decrees or similar interlocutory
orders rendered or entered in favor of the city. (1976 Code §2-119)
   E.   Enforcement Of Special Assessment And Condemnation Proceedings: It
shall be the duty of the city attorney to see to the completion of all special
assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings. (1976 Code §2-120)
Sec. 2.603. Special Counsel.
The mayor and council may retain or authorize the employment of special counsel
to give advice or render service to the city. (1976 Code §2-121)
ARTICLE VII
FINANCE DIRECTOR
SECTION:
2.701. Duties
Sec. 2.701. Duties.
Effective at the end of 2006, the office of city collector is hereby eliminated
as a position in the city. All duties that were performed by the city collector
are devolved to and are to be performed by the city finance director. Any
subsequent reference to the city collector in this code shall be deemed a
reference to the finance director, unless the context deems otherwise. (Ord. O-
06-044, 7-20-2006)
ARTICLE VIII
BUDGET OFFICER
SECTION:
2.801. Appointment
2.802. Duties
Sec. 2.801. Appointment.
The Budget Officer shall be the Finance Director. All references to "Budget
Officer" shall mean the Finance Director. (Ord. O-18-004, 2-1-2018)
Sec. 2.802. Duties.
The Budget Officer shall perform the following duties:
   A.   Prepare and encourage the use of efficient planning, budgeting,
auditing, reporting, accounting and other fiscal management procedures;
   B.   Compile an annual budget in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-2-9.3.
   C.   Examine all books and records relating to monies received, monies paid
out, including debts and accounts receivable, and amounts owed by or to the
City, its departments, commissions and boards;
   D.   Obtain such additional information from the City, its departments,
commissions and boards, as may be useful for the purposes of compiling an
annual budget, such information to be furnished by the City, its departments,
commissions and boards, in the form required, and any department, commission or
board which refuses to make such information, as is required of it, available
to the Budget Officer shall not be permitted to make expenditures under any
subsequent budget for the City until such department, commission or board
complies in full with the request of the Budget Officer; and
   E.   Establish and maintain such procedures as shall insure that no
expenditures are made by the City, its departments, commissions or boards,
except as authorized by the budget. (1976 Code §2-193)
ARTICLE IX
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
SECTION:
2.901. Duties
Sec. 2.901. Duties.
   A.   Position Abolished: Effective immediately, the Office of Superintendent
of Roads is eliminated as a position in the City. All duties that were
performed by the Superintendent of Roads are to be performed by the City Public
Works Director.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Generally: The Public Works Director shall supervise the keeping of
all streets and alleys clean, free from obstructions and in good repair. He
shall see that all street drains are free and unobstructed and shall perform
such other duties as may be required by law.
      2.   Lighting: The Public Works Director shall supervise the lighting of
the public streets and alleys and keep the lighting system in efficient
operation and good repair.
      3.   Street Repairs: All repair work, whether done by the City or the
abutting owner, shall be under the supervision of the Public Works Director.
(Ord. O-18-003, 2-1-2018)
ARTICLE X
CITY ENGINEER
SECTION:
2.1001. Office Created; Appointment
2.1002. Duties
Sec. 2.1001. Office Created; Appointment.
There is hereby created the office of city engineer who shall be appointed by
the city manager. (Ord. O-10-018, 10-22-2010)
Sec. 2.1002. Duties.
The duties of the city engineer shall be as provided for in subsection
17.203B of this code. (Ord. O-10-018, 10-22-2010)
CHAPTER 3
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3.101. Rules Of The Boards And Commissions Of The City
3.102. Records To Be Kept
3.103. Assistance From Members Of The City Staff
3.104. Compensation Of Members; Payment Of Expenses
3.105. Conduct Of Meetings; Quorum
3.106. Appointment Of Members To Boards And Commissions
3.107. Removal Of Members To Boards And Commissions
Sec. 3.101. Rules Of The Boards And Commissions Of The City.
Each board and commission of the City may establish rules concerning the
procedure, meeting and operation of such board or commission, which rules shall
be as nearly as possible consistent with the rules of the City Council
established in section
2.206 of this Code, and shall also be in accord with the other codes,
ordinances and resolutions of the City and applicable law. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-
16-2017)
Sec. 3.102. Records To Be Kept.
Each board and commission shall keep written records of all its meetings and
proceedings, which records shall be open for public inspection during regular
business hours at the City offices. Copies of minutes showing action taken and
proceedings had by such boards and commissions shall be filed with the City
Clerk. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 3.103. Assistance From Members Of The City Staff.
Each board or commission shall be assigned a City staff member, appointed by
the City Manager, to assist such board or commission. Such staff member shall
furnish information and advice respecting such matters as the board or
commission may reasonably require in order to fulfill its purposes as set forth
in this chapter. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 3.104. Compensation Of Members; Payment Of Expenses.
The members of each board or commission shall serve without compensation. Upon
the approval of the City Manager, any expenses for the operation and conduct of
the affairs of each board or commission shall be paid by the City from such
funds as may be provided for such purpose in the annual budget. (Ord. O-17-024,
11-16-2017)
Sec. 3.105. Conduct Of Meetings; Quorum.
   A.   Each board or commission shall hold its regular meetings, as necessary,
at the time scheduled and posted pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
Special meetings may be called on forty-eight (48) hours notice, subject to the
requirements of the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
   B.   A meeting room shall be made available to each board or commission in
the City Hall or in other City facilities, and all meetings shall be open to
the public unless the purpose of such meeting constitutes a valid and lawful
exception to the requirement that meetings of public bodies be open to the
public pursuant to the terms of the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
   C.   A quorum for any meeting shall be a majority of all duly appointed
members of a board or commission, unless otherwise specified.
   D.   A member of any board or commission may be provided the opportunity to
attend any meeting from a remote location if a quorum of all duly appointed
members of a board or commission are physically present at a meeting and vote
to approve the remote attendance because of:
      1.   Personal illness or disability; or
      2.   Employment purposes or the business of the City; or
      3.   A family or other emergency; or
      4.   Unexpected childcare obligations. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017; amd.
Ord. O-23-025, 9-7-2023)
Sec. 3.106. Appointment Of Members To Boards And Commissions.
   A.   Members of the following boards and commissions shall be appointed by
the Mayor as provided herein:
      1.   Police Pension Fund Board - two (2) members, with balance as
provided by statute.
      2.   RFP Steering Committee.
      3.   Special Events Committee.
   B.   Members of the following boards and commissions shall be appointed, and
the Chairperson designated annually, by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by
the City Council:
      1.   Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
      2.   Building Code Board of Appeals.
      3.   Community Development Commission.
      4.   Citizen Involvement Committee.
      5.   Streetscape and Economic Enhancement Committee.
      6.   Environmental and Sustainability Committee.
   C.   Each member of a board or commission, including the Chairman, shall
hold office until the expiration of the term for which such member was
appointed or until such time as a successor has been appointed or qualified,
unless prior to such time such member resigns his/her position or is removed
from it by the appointing official.
   D.   Vacancies on any board or commission shall be filled as soon as
possible for the unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant.
   E.   Each member of a board or commission shall be a resident of the City
unless otherwise specifically provided.
   F.   Only duly appointed members may vote on any matter before any board or
commission. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017; amd. Ord. O-19-020, 6-20-2019; Ord. O-
19-026, 8-15-2019; Ord. O-19-027, 8-15-2019; Ord. O-24-027, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 3.107. Removal Of Members To Boards And Commissions.
   A.   Members of any board or commission serve at the pleasure of the
appointing authority and may be removed as provided in this section.
   B.   Where removal from a board or commission is governed by statute, such
statute shall control. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
ARTICLE II
BUILDING CODE BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
3.201. Board Established; Membership; Terms Of Office
3.202. Powers And Duties
3.203. Meeting Schedule
Sec. 3.201. Board Established; Membership; Terms Of Office.
There is hereby established a Building Code Board of Appeals. The Board shall
consist of five (5) members with a preference for those who are qualified by
experience and training to pass upon matters pertaining to building
construction, where practical. Each member shall serve a term of five (5)
years. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 3.202. Powers And Duties.
The Building Code Board of Appeals shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To hear appeals concerning any interpretation or decision made by an
administrative official in the administration of the Building Code (chapter 12
of this Code).
   B.   To hear and decide all matters referred to it by the City Council or
upon which it is required to act under this Code, or as prescribed by the
applicable provisions of the Illinois Revised Statutes 1 . (Ord. O-17-024, 11-
16-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS, art. 9, div. 2.
Sec. 3.203. Meeting Schedule.
The Building Code Board of Appeals shall meet as needed and in accordance with
section 3.105 of this chapter. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
ARTICLE III
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
SECTION:
3.301. Commission Created; Membership; Terms Of Office
3.302. Powers And Duties
3.303. Meeting Schedule
Sec. 3.301. Commission Created; Membership; Terms Of Office.
A Community Development Commission (CDC) is hereby authorized and established.
The commission shall consist of seven (7) members with preferred experience in
architecture, land development, construction, engineering, real estate or other
similar discipline, where practical. Each member shall serve a two (2) year
term. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 3.302. Powers And Duties.
The Community Development Commission (CDC) shall have the following duties:
   A.   To hear and review all applications for special uses, including planned
developments, and recommend with respect thereto, to the City Council.
   B.   To initiate, direct and review, from time to time, studies of the
provisions of
chapter 17 of this Code and the Comprehensive Plan, and to make reports of its
recommendations to the City Council not less frequently than once each year.
   C.   To receive and review all plats of subdivision and recommend action
with respect thereto to the City Council.
   D.   To hear and review all zoning and planning aspects of proposed
annexations as referred to it by the City Council and recommend action with
respect thereto to the City Council.
   E.   To hear and review all applications for amendments of the text to
chapters 13 and
17 of this Code and recommend action with respect thereto to the City Council.
   F.   To hear and review all amendments to the City of Wood Dale
Comprehensive Plan and recommend action with respect thereto to the City
Council.
   G.   To hear and review all applications for reclassification of the zoning
designation of property and recommend action with respect thereto to the City
Council.
   H.   To hear and review all requests for authorized variations from the
regulations and restrictions imposed by
chapters 13 and
17 of this Code and recommend with respect thereto to the City Council.
   I.   To hear and decide appeals in which it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination (hereinafter
referred to collectively as "decision") made by the Development Administrator.
   J.   To hear and report to the Mayor and City Council on such other matters
as may be referred to it by the Mayor and City Council subject to the
provisions of
chapters 13 and
17 of this Code. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 3.303. Meeting Schedule.
The regular meetings of the Community Development Commission (CDC) will
typically be held on the third Monday of each month or as needed and in
accordance with section
3.105 of this chapter. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
ARTICLE IV
WOOD DALE CITIZEN INVOLVEMENT COMMITTEE
SECTION:
3.401. Committee Created; Membership; Terms Of Office
3.402. Powers And Duties
3.403. Meeting Schedule
Sec. 3.401. Committee Created; Membership; Terms of Office.
There is hereby established an advisory committee of the citizens of Wood Dale,
which shall be known as the Wood Dale Citizen Involvement Committee. The
Committee shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the
City Council. The Committee shall consist of twelve (12) members that shall
serve a two (2) year term, which terms may be staggered to allow for continuity
on the Committee.
The appointed Members of the Committee shall be determined considering the
geographical location of the residence of the Committee Members, in order to
allow for the entire geographic area of the city to have representation on the
Committee. Consideration may be given to other factors, such as the duration of
the appointed Member's residence in the city; the appointed Member's age, to
provide a cross-section of the residents of the city; and such other factors as
the Mayor may so determine.
In addition, one Alderman may be appointed to serve as a non-voting member of
the Committee and to act as a liaison between the Committee and the City
Council. No Staff Members shall serve on the Committee. (Ord. O-19-027, 8-15-
2019)
Sec. 3.402. Powers And Duties.
   A.   To make recommendations to the City Council; to provide information to
the City Council; to provide assessments of city activities, programs and
policies and to provide information to the City Council.
   B.   To serve as an advisory body to the City Council to provide valuable
citizen input,
   C.   Such other and further duties as may be authorized by the City Council.
(Ord. O-19-027, 8-15-2019)
Sec. 3.403. Meeting Schedule.
Regular meetings of the Citizens Involvement Committee shall take place
quarterly, or at such additional times as may be needed, and in accordance with
section
3.105 of this chapter. (Ord. O-19-027, 8-15-2019)
ARTICLE V
STREETSCAPE AND ECONOMIC ENHANCEMENT COMMITTEE
SECTION:
3.501. Committee Created; Membership; Terms Of Office
3.502. Powers And Duties
3.503. Meeting Schedule
Sec. 3.501. Committee Created; Membership; Terms Of Office.
A Streetscape and Economic Enhancement Committee is hereby authorized and
established. The committee shall consist of seven (7) members with preferred
experience in landscape architecture, architecture, land development,
construction, banking, real estate or other similar discipline, where
practical. The Chairman and Vice-Chairman shall be Aldermen appointed by the
Mayor. Each member shall serve a two (2) year term. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 3.502. Powers And Duties.
The Streetscape and Economic Enhancement Committee shall have the following
duties:
   A.   To review and recommend a Comprehensive Forestry, Landscape and
Hardscape Program to the City Council not less frequently than once each year.
   B.   To review and recommend the implementation of necessary economic
development tools to ensure that the City is able to attract and retain
businesses that foster the City's ability to maintain and enhance the quality
of life for all.
   C.   To hear and review all applications for the Facade Improvement Program
and recommend action with respect thereto to the City Council.
   D.   To hear and report to the Mayor and City Council on such other matters
as may be referred to it by the Mayor and City Council subject to the
applicable provisions of this Code. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 3.503. Meeting Schedule.
The regular meetings of the Streetscape and Economic Enhancement Committee will
typically be held on the first Monday of each month or as needed and in
accordance with section 3.105 of this chapter. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
ARTICLE VI
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
3.601. Board Established; Appointment; Term; Removal From Office
3.602. Qualifications
3.603. Oath; Bond
3.604. Duties Regarding Police Department; Limitations
3.605. Secretary To The Board
Sec. 3.601. Board Established; Appointment; Term; Removal From Office.
There is hereby established a Board of Fire and Police Commissioners which
shall be composed of three (3) members.
Members of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall serve for a period
of three (3) years and until their respective successors are appointed. No such
appointment shall be made within thirty (30) days of a general election wherein
City officials of the City of Wood Dale are to be elected.
Members of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall be removed as
provided by law 1 . (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-3.
Sec. 3.602. Qualifications.
Members of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall possess the
qualifications required by law 1 . (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-3.
Sec. 3.603. Oath; Bond.
   A.   Oath Of Office: Members of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
shall take the oath or affirmation of office required by law 1 .
   B.   Bond: Members of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall give
the bond required by law 2 . (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
 
Notes
1 3. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-3.
2 4. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-3.
Sec. 3.604. Duties Regarding Police Department; Limitations.
   A.   Appointments: As provided by law and in the number of officers and in
the rank thereof as may be provided from time to time by resolution of the City
Council, the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall appoint all officers
and members of the Police Department, except the Chief of Police 1  and two (2)
Deputy Chiefs of Police.
   B.   Promotions: All promotional appointments made by the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners shall be made from the next lowest rank.
   C.   Examinations: Appointments in the Police Department, both original and
promotional, shall be made only after competitive examinations. The Board of
Fire and Police Commissioners shall make rules governing the conduct of
original and promotional examinations; such rules shall be made available to
all persons seeking to take such examination.
   D.   Hearings; Discharges: The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall
conduct all hearings on charges brought against any member of the Police
Department, and shall designate the penalty or punishment to be applied. No
person other than the Chiefs shall be discharged, except on charges brought and
after hearing before the board.
   E.   Limitations On Authority: Except as specifically provided otherwise,
the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall have no authority to make
rules and regulations governing the conduct of members or the operation of the
Police Department. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 2.504B and section 14.102 of this Code.
Sec. 3.605. Secretary To The Board.
The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners may employ a Recording Secretary in
addition to the Secretary of the Board, being a member of the board designated
to act as an Executive Secretary. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of the
board's proceedings, be custodian of all papers pertaining to the business of
the board, keep a record of all examinations held and perform such other duties
as the board may prescribe. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
ARTICLE VII
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
3.701. Commission Created
3.702. Membership
3.703. Powers And Duties
3.704. Meeting Schedule
Sec. 3.701. Commission Created.
There is hereby created a Committee known as the Environmental and
Sustainability Committee. (O-24-027, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 3.702. Membership.
   A.   The Environmental and Sustainability Committee shall consist of six (6)
members. At least one member shall be an Alderman from the City Council.
   B.   In making the original appointments under this Section, the City
Council shall designate members to serve for a three (3) year term; members to
serve for a two (2) year term; and a member to serve for a one (1) year term.
Thereafter, appointment shall be made for a full three (3) year term. (Ord. O-
24-027, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 3.703. Powers And Duties.
The Environmental and Sustainability Committee shall have the following duties:
   A.   To protect, sustain, and improve a clean and healthful environment to
benefit present and future generations.
   B.   To make recommendations to the City Council concerning the alleviation
of stormwater drainage and sanitary sewer matters within the corporate limits
of the City.
   C.   To serve as an Advisory Body to the City Council to provide valuable
citizen input.
   D.   Such other and further duties as may be requested by the City Council
or City Manager. (Ord. O-24-027, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 3.704. Meeting Schedule.
Regular meetings of the Environmental and Sustainability Committee will
typically be held on the first Wednesday of the months of January, April, July,
and October, or as needed in accordance with section
3.105 of this chapter. (Ord. O-24-027, 8-15-2024)
ARTICLE VIII
SPECIAL EVENTS COMMITTEE
SECTION:
3.801. Committee Created; Membership; Terms Of Office
3.802. Powers And Duties
3.803. Meeting Schedule
Sec. 3.801. Committee Created; Membership; Terms Of Office.
A Special Events Committee is hereby authorized and established. The committee
shall consist of four (4) members that include the Mayor, two (2) Aldermen, and
either the City Clerk or the City Treasurer. Each member shall serve a two (2)
year term. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017; amd. Ord. O-24-022, 6-20-2024)
Sec. 3.802. Powers And Duties.
The Special Events Committee shall have the following duties:
   A.   To plan and organize the annual Prairie Fest.
   B.   To plan and organize other special events hosted by the City or as
directed by the City Council. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 3.803. Meeting Schedule.
The Special Events Committee will meet on an as-needed basis in accordance with
section 3.105 of this chapter. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
ARTICLE IX
POLICE PENSION FUND BOARD
SECTION:
3.901. Board Created; Membership; Term Of Office
3.902. Meeting Schedule
3.903. Finances
3.904. Reserve Established
Sec. 3.901. Board Created; Membership; Term Of Office.
A Police Pension Fund is hereby established as provided by law.
The required Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund shall consist of five
(5) members, two (2) appointed by the Mayor, two (2) elected by the members of
the Police Department and one elected by the beneficiaries of the Pension Fund.
The elections shall be held on the third Monday in April, and the terms of each
member shall be two (2) years. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 3.902. Meeting Schedule.
The Police Pension Fund Board shall hold regular quarterly meetings in January,
April, July and October as provided by law and shall hold such additional
meetings as may be called by the President of the Pension Board. (Ord. O-17-
024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 3.903. Finances.
   A.   The money in the Police Pension Fund shall be held in a separate
account by the Municipal Treasurer, as provided by law.
   B.   This fund shall consist of the required deductions from the pay of
policemen covered by the fund and the required Property Tax sufficient to
enable the Police Pension Fund to meet all its obligations. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-
16-2017)
Sec. 3.904. Reserve Established.
There shall be established and maintained a reserve in the Police Pension Fund.
This reserve shall be built up and accumulated in accord with the requirements
set forth in the Illinois Compiled Statutes, made and provided. (Ord. O-17-024,
11-16-2017)
ARTICLE X
RFP STEERING COMMITTEE
SECTION:
3.1001. Committee Created; Membership; Terms Of Office
3.1002. Powers And Duties
3.1003. Meeting Schedule
Sec. 3.1001. Committee Created; Membership; Terms Of Office.
An RFP Steering Committee is hereby authorized and established. The committee
shall consist of seven (7) members that include the Mayor, Chairman of the
Planning, Zoning and Building Committee of the City Council, Chairman of the
Public Works Committee of the City Council, City Manager, Public Works
Director, Community Development Director and Management Analyst. Each member
shall serve a two (2) year term. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 3.1002. Powers And Duties.
The RFP Steering Committee shall have the following duties:
   A.   To review proposals and Statements of Qualifications submitted in
response to RFPs and RFQs, etc., and recommend a firm to the City Council.
   B.   To review and report to the Mayor and City Council on such other
matters as may be referred to it by the Mayor and City Council subject to the
applicable provisions of this Code. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 3.1003. Meeting Schedule.
The RFP Steering Committee will meet on an as-needed basis in accordance with
section
3.105 of this chapter. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
CHAPTER 4
COMMERCIAL OCCUPANCY AND ACTIVITY REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4.101. Purpose
4.102. Applicability
4.103. Severability
4.104. Nontransferability
4.105. Rules
4.106. Definitions
4.107. General Operating Requirements
4.108. Application Processing
4.109. Revocation, Suspension Or Refusal
4.110. Violations
Sec. 4.101. Purpose.
Because the conduct of nonresidential activities within the City is a basic
part of and affects the physical and economic well being of the City
necessitating special services from the City in the form of fire, health,
police inspections and services, such commercial activities shall in all
respects be in full compliance with the provisions hereinafter contained in
this chapter. This chapter is designed to provide for the means whereby the
City may render the necessary inspections and services in order to promote,
protect and safeguard the public safety, health and welfare of the citizens of
the City and to enable the effecting of an accurate record of all
nonresidential activities located and conducted within the City. (Ord. O-16-
033, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.102. Applicability.
All persons occupying non-residential property and/or engaged in commercial and
non-profit activities are subject to the regulations contained within this
chapter. The regulations in this chapter shall in no way be construed as
applicable to video gaming as defined and exclusively provided in chapter 5 of
this Code. (Ord. O-17-010, 5-18-2017)
Sec. 4.103. Severability.
In the event that any provision of this chapter, or any part thereof, or any
application thereof to any person or circumstance, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction on its face or as applied, such holding shall not affect the
validity or effectiveness of any remaining provisions of this chapter, or any
part thereof, or any application thereof to any person or circumstance or of
said provision as applied to any other person or circumstance. It is hereby
declared to be the legislative intent of the City that this chapter would have
been adopted had such unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective provisions not
been included herein. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.104. Nontransferability.
The certificates, licenses and registrations required by this chapter are not
transferable from one person, entity, device, vehicle or location to another,
unless otherwise specified. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.105. Rules.
The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural number, and the plural the
singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
   C.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter. (Ord. O-16-033,
11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.106. Definitions.
Whenever in this chapter the following words and phrases are used, they shall,
for the purposes of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this section, except when the context otherwise indicates or an
alternate definition is provided or referenced. Words and terms not defined
herein shall be defined as specified in the latest published edition of
"Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary".
ADULT BOOTH: Any area of an adult entertainment establishment set off from the
remainder of such establishment by one or more walls or other dividers or
partitions and used to show, play, or otherwise demonstrate adult materials or
to view any live performance that is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT: Any of the following commercial
establishments, as defined herein:
   A.   Adult Cabaret: Any commercial establishment including, but not limited
to, a lounge, theater, concert hall, men's or women's club, auditorium, or
similar commercial establishment, regardless of its seating capacity that as a
substantial or significant portion of its business features or provides any of
the following:
      1.   Persons who appear nude or seminude.
      2.   Live performances that are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
      3.   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law.
      4.   Films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides, computer
displays, or other visual representations or recordings of any kind that are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or
description of specified anatomical areas, or the conduct or simulation of
specified sexual activities.
      5.   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the
breast, buttocks, anus or genitals.
      6.   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, pubic hair, anus,
vulva or genitals.
      7.   A role playing interaction, including, but not limited to, servers,
hosts, hostesses, dancers, singers, models or other performance artists, or an
establishment which offers customers role playing interaction.
   B.   Adult Store: Any commercial establishment: 1) that contains one or more
adult booths; or 2) that as a substantial or significant portion of its
business offers for sale, rental, or viewing any adult materials.
   C.   Adult Theater: Any commercial establishment that as a substantial or
significant portion of its business features or provides films, motion
pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides, or other visual representation or
recordings of any kind that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on the exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical areas, or
the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
ADULT MATERIAL: Any of the following, whether new or used:
   A.   The following materials that are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical
areas, or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities: 1) books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or digitally stored materials;
or 2) films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides, computer
displays, or other visual representations or recordings of any kind,
   B.   Instruments, novelties, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use in connection with specified sexual activities, or that depict or describe
specified anatomical areas.
AMUSEMENT ARCADE: A commercial establishment that has or maintains eight (8) or
more amusement devices on the premises.
AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any coin operated device that operates or may be operated as
a game, entertainment, amusement or test of skill, either mental or physical,
including, but not limited to, music machines, photo booths, pool tables,
pinball machines, arcade type video games and foosball tables. "Amusement
device" shall not include video gaming terminals or vending machines.
APPROVED MASSAGE SCHOOL: A school which has received certification from the
Illinois state board of education as a massage therapy school and has presented
evidence of such certification to the city.
ASSET: A business, organization or property.
ATTENDANT: An owner, agent or employee of a licensee; provided such owner,
agent or employee is over the age of eighteen (18) years.
AUCTIONEER: An individual person employed to sell or put up material goods,
chattel, or real estate at auction or any individual person employed to assist
one or more auctioneers or to assist in the proceedings of auctions.
BUILDING: A roofed structure designed or intended for the enclosure, shelter or
protection of persons, animals or other property. All forms of vehicles, even
if immobilized, are excluded from this definition.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The building official of the city of Wood Dale, as defined
by
chapter 12 of this code, or designee.
BUSINESS: An occupation, employment or enterprise which occupies time,
attention, labor and materials in order to conduct commercial activities.
BUSINESS VEHICLE: An automobile, truck, or other motor vehicle used primarily
to conduct or support the commercial or nonprofit activities of an entity
located within the city.
CANVASSER: A person, whether resident of the city or not, traveling either by
foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal
property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be
furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has,
carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he
is collecting advance payments on such sales or not, provided that such
definition shall include any person who, for himself, or for another person,
firm, or corporation, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure,
tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any
other place within the city for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and
taking orders for future delivery.
CARNIVAL: An entertainment or place of amusement with rides, games of skill,
and/or refreshments, but without sideshows; which entertainment is usually
operated as a commercial enterprise but sometimes by a social organization or
nonprofit establishment.
CARTER: Any person that transports goods using a cart or truck.
CHANCE: The absence of explainable or noncontrollable causation; a risk; an
unforeseen consequence of an act.
CHATTEL: An item of personal property other than real estate.
CIRCUS: An entertainment or place of amusement with sideshows, rides, games of
skill, and/or refreshments, usually including an arena enclosed within a tent
for the showing of acrobats, wild animals, and clowns.
CITY: The City of Wood Dale, DuPage County, Illinois.
CITY CLERK: The City Clerk of the City of Wood Dale, or his or her designee.
CITY MANAGER: The City Manager of the City of Wood Dale.
CODE: The Municipal Code of the City of Wood Dale, Illinois.
COIN OPERATED: Of or relating to a self-service machine that requires money
(cash or electronic card), token, voucher or similar means to be inserted
before use.
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES: Engaging in or supporting activities where compensation
is intended to be received in exchange for goods and/or services.
COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT: A place where commercial activities are conducted; a
place wherein professions, businesses, and occupations may be carried on.
COMMERCIAL LAND LEASING: Rental, whether short or long term, of all or part of
a property to a tenant where the use involves vehicles and/or trailers that are
movable or portable and is not associated with a commercial occupancy
certificate for the premises. The term includes, but is not limited to,
commercial parking lots and mobile home parks.
COMMERCIAL OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE (COC): Document issued by the City, upon
verification, that the applicable provisions of this chapter and
chapters 12 and
17 of this Code have been met in order to occupy a nonresidential building or
any space therein to conduct specified activities.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT: The Office of the Development Administrator.
CONTRACTOR: Any person who enters into a contract and for a fixed price
undertakes the performance or to cause the performance of works. This term
shall include, but shall not be limited to, such persons engaging in masonry,
electrical, heating, ventilation and air conditioning businesses.
COUNTY: The County of DuPage, a body politic and corporate.
DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATOR: The individual or duly appointed assistant as
defined in
chapter 17 of this Code.
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE OR E-CIGARETTE: An electronic device usually composed of a
mouthpiece, a heating element or atomizer, a battery, and electronic circuits
that provides a gas derived from liquid nicotine and/or other substances which
is inhaled by a user simulating smoking. The term includes such devices,
regardless of the details of the product appearance or marketed name, generally
manufactured to resemble cigarettes, cigars, pipes, or other smoking devices.
ENTITY: An organization (as a business, nonprofit or governmental unit) that
has an identity separate from those of its members.
ESTABLISHMENT EMPLOYEE: Any individual, including entertainers, who work in or
at, or render any services directly related to the operation of a licensed
establishment; provided, however, that this definition shall not include
persons delivering goods, materials, food and beverages, or performing
maintenance or repairs, to the licensed premises.
ESTABLISHMENT OPERATOR: Any person who owns or operates a licensed
establishment.
FREIGHT: As defined in subsection
17.103C of this Code.
HOME BASED BUSINESS: A business, profession, occupation or trade as defined by,
and conducted in accordance with,
chapter 17 of this Code.
INDIVIDUAL THERAPIST MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: A massage establishment which is
operated as a separate and distinct business and which includes as an employee,
independent contractor, joint venture, affiliate, partner or in any other
fashion, not more than one massage therapist.
JUNK DEALER: Any person dealing in the gathering, buying, and/or selling in
worn out and discarded articles and materials that have outlived their
usefulness and which may be turned or converted into another product or put to
some other use, either of the same or a different kind.
LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment licensed under this chapter.
LICENSED PREMISES: The premises on which any licensed establishment is located.
LICENSEE: A person holding a license pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
LIQUID NICOTINE: Any liquid product composed either in whole or part of
nicotine, propylene glycol and/or other similar substances and manufactured for
use with an e-cigarette to be converted into a vapor for inhaling.
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external soft parts
of the body with the hands or with aid of any mechanical electrical apparatus
or appliances with or without rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils,
powder, creams, lotions, ointments or other similar preparations used in this
practice, under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the
person to whom treatment is provided, or some third party on such person's
behalf, will pay money or give other consideration or any gratuity therefor.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any business entity having a source of income or
compensation derived from the practice of massage and which has a fixed place
of business where any person engages in or carries on any of such activities.
MASSAGE THERAPIST: Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever, engages in
the practice of massage.
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: A licensed motorized vehicle or mobile food unit that is
used for selling food items to the general public. Vehicles used for this
purpose are typically equipped with on board power, refrigeration and food
preparation facilities.
MOBILE HOME: A movable or portable structure designed and intended for
permanent habitation and constructed to be towed on its own chassis (comprised
of frame and wheels) from the place of construction to the location or
subsequent locations, and designed to be used without a permanent foundation
and connected to utilities for year round occupancy without a permanent
foundation. The term shall include: a) units containing parts that may be
folded, collapsed, or telescoped when being towed and that may be expanded to
provide additional cubic capacity; b) units composed of two (2) or more
separately towable components designed to be joined into one integral unit
capable of being separated again into the components for repeated towing; and
c) units designed to be used for residential, commercial, educational or
industrial purposes, excluding, however, recreational vehicles.
MONEY SERVICES: A business or any portion thereof that includes commercial
activities related to transmitting or converting money conducted by nonbank
financial institutions. Examples of money services consist of, but are not
limited to, services related to check cashing, money orders, traveler's checks,
money transfers, foreign currency exchange, consumer loans and secondhand
dealers.
NONPROFIT ACTIVITIES: Engaging in or supporting activities, including, but not
limited to, the sale of goods and provision of services, conducted without the
intention of making a profit.
NONPROFIT ESTABLISHMENT: An organization or institution organized and conducted
on a not for profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result
of the operation.
NONRESIDENTIAL USE: The intended use of a property or a portion thereof that is
not intended, or zoned, to be used as a place for persons to live.
NUDE OR STATE OF NUDITY: A state of dress or undress that exposes to view: a)
less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals; pubic region; anus;
or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areolae, but
not including any portion of the cleavage of the female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel, provided
that the areolae is not exposed; or b) human male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the City; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
NUISANCE IN FACT: An act, occupation, or structure which is not a nuisance per
se but may become a nuisance by reason of the circumstances or the location and
surroundings.
OCCUPANCY: The use of land, buildings and/or structures. See also definition of
use/occupancy classification.
PATRON: Any individual, other than an establishment employee, present in or at
any establishment at any time when such establishment is open for business;
provided, however, that this definition shall not include persons delivering
goods, materials, food and beverages, or performing maintenance or repairs, to
the licensed premises.
PAWNBROKER: Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property or deals
in the purchase, exchange or possession of personal property on condition of
selling the same back again to the pledger or depositor, or who loans or
advances money on personal property by taking chattel mortgage security thereon
and takes or receives such personal property into his possession, and who sells
the unredeemed pledges, together with such new merchandise as will facilitate
the sale of same. This term shall also be considered a secondhand dealer.
PERSON: Any legal entity, including, but not limited to, an individual, firm,
partnership, association, trust, joint stock company, corporation or successor
of any of the foregoing. Whenever the word "person" is used in any section
prescribing a penalty or fine as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word shall include the partners or members thereof, and as applied to
corporations, the word shall include officers, agents or employees thereof who
are responsible for any violation of the section.
PERSON WITH SIGNIFICANT INTEREST OR CONTROL: Any of the following:
   A.   Each person in whose name a City license is maintained for the licensed
premises;
   B.   Each person who has the ability to influence or control the activities
of an establishment operator, or elect a majority of its board of directors,
other than a bank or licensed lending institution that holds a mortgage or
other lien, or any other source of funds, acquired in the ordinary course of
business; or
   C.   Persons having the power to exercise significant influence or control
over decisions concerning any part of an establishment operator's operation.
PROPERTY/PREMISES: Any realty, including improvements thereon and tangible
personalty.
PUBLIC: The community at large.
PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE: A motor vehicle, as defined in the Motor Vehicle Law
of the State of Illinois, which is used for the transportation of passengers
including the sick or wounded, for hire; excepting those devoted exclusively
for funeral use or in operation of a metropolitan transit authority or public
utility under the laws of the State of Illinois.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, boulevards, avenues, lanes, alleys or other
public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, plazas, grounds and
buildings.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in section 28-2(b) of the "Criminal Code
of 1961", conducted by an organization registered under section
4.507 of this chapter, in which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or be
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance;
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
REFLEXOLOGY: The application of steady, deep and light pressure over the human
feet for the purpose of producing healing and relaxation in all parts of the
body.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes)
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
vehicles, and solid market and industrial wastes, including, but not limited
to:
   A.   High density polyethylene (HDPE) #2 blow molded containers: plastic
milk and water jugs, laundry detergent, shampoo, personal care, and other
similar blow molded containers used inside the home.
   B.   Other high density polyethylene (HDPE) #2 containers: margarine tubs,
baby wipe containers, and other similar molded containers used inside the home.
   C.   Juice boxes: aseptic cartons consisting of a high grade paperboard
coated with polyethylene plastic and aluminum foil, excluding milk cartons.
   D.   Polyethylene terephthalate (PET #1) blow molded containers: soft drink,
liquor, cooking oil, personal care, and other similar blow molded containers
used inside the home.
   E.   Other polyethylene terephthalate (PET #1) containers: plastic plates,
trays, cups, and other similar ejection molded containers used inside the home.
   F.   Polypropylene (PP#5): yogurt, cottage cheese and sour cream tubs, syrup
bottles, etc.
   G.   Polystyrene (PS#6) plastic containers: foam packaging peanuts, drinking
cups, plates, carryout containers, egg cartons, meat and produce trays, and
other similar foam materials.
   H.   Polystyrene (PS#6) plastic packaging materials: white and clear packing
grade.
   I.   Polyvinyl/chloride (PVC #3): health and beauty aid bottles.
   J.   Recyclables (also referred to as recyclable materials): materials which
have a useful second life in the economic cycle if they are successfully
collected, separated, processed, and marketed for return to the economic
mainstream. Recyclable materials shall include aluminum cans, tin/steel/bimetal
cans, colored and clear glass bottles, HDPE, PET and PS, plastic containers #1,
#2 and #6, newspaper, magazines, catalogs, telephone directories, corrugated
cardboard, chipboard, 6-pack rings, and any other items the city and the
contractor agree to recycle in the future.
REGISTER OR REGISTRY: A book containing a record of facts as they occur.
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is in the
possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
RESIDENCE: Every separate dwelling unit occupied as a permanent place of
residency by one or more persons, contained within any type of building or
structure. This term does not include lodging accommodations.
RETAIL SALE: A sale in small quantities or in broken lots or parcels, not in
bulk, and directly to the consumer.
RETAIL SERVICE: A service made directly to the consumer.
ROLE PLAYING INTERACTION: An arrangement, service or program where a server,
host, hostess, dancer, singer, model or massage establishment employee, engages
a customer in a meeting or conversation involving, depicting, simulating or
participating in any "specified sexual activities".
SCAVENGER: Any person registered by the city that collects refuse and hauls
same away to locations outside of the corporate limits of the city.
SECONDHAND DEALER: Any person engaged in the business of buying and/or selling
articles which have passed through the hands of one or more owners which owners
were retailers or consumers rather than wholesalers. The term shall be deemed
to include, but shall not be limited to, pawnbrokers, dealers in precious
metals and/or gems and antique, coin and junk dealers.
SEMINUDE: A state of dress or undress in which clothing covers no more than the
human genitals, pubic region, anus, and areolae of the female breast, as well
as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices or by other
minor accessory apparel such as hats, gloves and socks.
SHORT TERM SALES, COMMERCIAL: Any commercial activity conducted outside but
immediately adjacent to the licensed establishment on a seasonal basis,
including the display of goods and outdoor cafes.
SHORT TERM SALES, RESIDENTIAL: Commercial activity conducted on residential
property for a limited duration relating to the sale of household and personal
items, such as garage and yard sales, estate sales and house auctions or
similar activities.
SOLICITING: Any of the following:
   A.   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
foodstuffs and/or services, of any kind, character or description whatsoever,
for any kind of consideration whatsoever; or
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind, or character; or
   C.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
   D.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing, or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project.
SOLICITOR: Any individual, whether a resident of the city of Wood Dale or not,
traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck or any other type of
conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street,
taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise,
personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services
to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has,
carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he
is collecting advance payment on such sales or not; provided, that such
definition shall include any person, who for himself or for another person,
firm or corporation, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure,
tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any
other place within the city of Wood Dale for the sole purpose of exhibiting
samples and taking orders for future delivery.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Any of the following:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals; pubic region;
buttocks; anus; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areolae, but not including any portion of the cleavage of the female breast
exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing
apparel, provided the areolae is not exposed.
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered, or any device or covering that, when worn, simulates
human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACT: Any unlawful lewd, indecent, or immoral conduct,
including specifically, but without limitation, any of the lewd, indecent, or
immoral criminal acts specified in any of the following statutes:
   A.   Article II of the Illinois criminal code (sex offenses).
   B.   Section 26-4 of the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/26-4 (unauthorized video recording and live video transmission).
   C.   Section 33D-1 of the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/330-1 (contributing to the criminal delinquency of a juvenile).
   D.   The obscene phone call act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 135/0.01 et
seq.
   E.   The wrongs to children act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 150/0.01 et
seq.
   F.   The improper supervision of children act, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 640/0.01 et seq.
   G.   The sale of immoral publications to children act, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 670/0.01 et seq.
   H.   The cannabis control act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq.
   I.   The Illinois controlled substance act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
570/100 et seq.
   J.   Section
14.518, "Public Indecency", of this code.
   K.   Section
14.519, "Profanity", of this code.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following:
   A.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts.
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy.
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated.
   D.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or
tumescence.
   E.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsection A, B, C, or D of this definition.
STRADDLE DANCE: The use by any person, including specifically, but without
limitation, an establishment employee of an adult entertainment establishment,
of any part of his or her body to touch the genitals, pubic region, buttock,
anus, or female breast of any patron or any other person, or the touching of
the genitals, pubic region, buttock, anus, or female breast of any person by
any patron. Conduct shall be a "straddle dance" regardless of whether the
"touch" or "touching" occurs while the person is displaying or exposing any
specified anatomical area. Conduct shall also be a "straddle dance" regardless
of whether the "touch" or "touching" is direct or through a medium. Conduct
commonly referred to by the slang terms "lap dance", "table dance", and "face
dance" shall be included within this definition of straddle dance.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping
tobacco.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP: Any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease, or sublease of an asset; or
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the asset, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device which
transfers the ownership or control of the asset; or
   D.   Any person not previously listed as an applicant that acquires an
ownership interest in the asset of twenty percent (20%) or more.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person who engages in a temporary business of buying or
selling and delivering to any person, goods, wares or tangible personal
property for retail sale or retail services within the city who does not
maintain in the city an established office, distribution house, sales house,
warehouse, service center or residence from which the commercial activities are
conducted. This definition does not apply to the following:
   A.   Persons using motor vehicles primarily for activities related to public
passenger vehicles or transporters.
   B.   Persons selling vegetables, fruits or perishable farm products at
booths on or adjacent to the property owned or occupied by them.
   C.   Persons conducting judicial or other sales under legal proceedings.
   D.   Food trucks.
   E.   Persons selling at circuses, carnivals or other public events, provided
they are otherwise registered by the City.
TRANSPORTER: Any person engaging in the business of transporting freight. This
term includes, but is not limited to, any person whose business is trucking
goods, including freight dispatch services (as defined in subsection
17.103C of this Code); a truck driver who delivers containers to and from the
airport, seaport or rail yard; any person that transports goods on regular
routes at set rates; or any person engaged in the business of transporting
parcels or other movable property.
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE (UDO):
Chapter 17 of this Code.
USE/OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION: The types of use/occupancy include the following:
   A.   Day care/school: The use of a structure or land for educational
purposes or in which care or supervision is provided to persons who are not
capable of self-preservation without physical assistance.
   B.   Lodging/residential: The use of a structure or land for sleeping
purposes.
   C.   Manufacturing and research: The use of a structure or land for
assembling, disassembling, fabricating, finishing, manufacturing, packaging,
repair or processing operations that are not considered a high hazard or
storage use. This term includes the testing and study of materials and sources
to establish facts and conclusions.
   D.   Professional offices: The use of a structure or land for offices,
professional or service-type transactions that are not considered retail/
services.
   E.   Restaurant/bar/entertainment: The use of a structure or land for the
gathering of people for civic, social or religious functions, recreation, food
or drink consumption.
   F.   Retail/services: The use of a structure or land for the display and
sale of merchandise and involves stocks of goods, wares or merchandise
incidental to such purposes and open and accessible to the public. This term
also includes the sale of services provided to the public on- site; examples
include but are not limited to dry cleaning, hair salon, car wash, auto repair,
etc.
   G.   Warehouse/freight forwarding/storage: The use of a structure or land
for or intended to be used for storage of materials, refuse, or vehicles,
trailers and equipment not in service that is not classified as high hazard.
   H.   Gas station or other high hazard use: The use of a structure or land
that involves the manufacturing, processing, generation and storage of
materials that constitute a physical or health hazard. Examples include but are
not limited to gas stations and on-site dry cleaning.
VENDING MACHINE: Any coin operated device that dispenses anything of value
including food, beverage, goods, wares, merchandise or services. Examples of
vending machines include vacuum and air machines, movie and game rental (such
as Redbox), musical devices (such as jukeboxes), newspaper dispensing machines,
laundromat washers and dryers, spare change collection devices (such as
Coinstar), stamping/engraving machines, etc.
ZONING: The division of property within the City into districts as depicted in
the official zoning map and subject to the applicable regulations contained in
chapter 17 of this Code. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016; amd. Ord. O-17-010, 5-18-
2017; Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018; Ord. O-18-041, 12-20-2018)
Sec. 4.107. General Operating Requirements.
The following general operating requirements shall apply to all commercial and
nonprofit establishments and commercial and nonprofit activities in accordance
with this chapter:
   A.   Compliance With Other Codes: Comply with all Federal, State and local
laws and regulations. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed so as to be in
conflict with the unified development ordinance.
   B.   General Welfare: Conduct commercial and nonprofit activities in a
manner that does not pose a threat to the public health, safety, good order or
general welfare of the City.
   C.   Sanitation: All establishments shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition. No refuse of any kind shall be permitted to accumulate on such
premises, and the premises must be kept free from flies, rodents and vermin.
All food storage, preparation and distribution of food and drink within a
building or vehicle must meet applicable Illinois Department of Public Health
and DuPage County Health Department standards and requirements.
   D.   Storage And Disposal Of Waste: All waste liquids, garbage, litter and
refuse generated by the approved activities shall be kept in leakproof,
nonabsorbent containers which shall be kept covered with tightfitting lids and
disposed of properly. No waste liquids, garbage, litter or refuse shall be
dumped or drained into sidewalks, streets, gutters, drains, public trash
receptacles, or any other public place.
   E.   Equipment Safety: All equipment used in the operation of the
establishment's activities shall be maintained in good operating condition.
   F.   Nuisances Prohibited: No establishment shall be so conducted or
operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact; and no building, vehicle,
structure, yard, lot or premises, or part thereof, shall be used, kept,
maintained or operated in connection with any commercial or nonprofit activity
so as to occasion any nuisance or so as to be dangerous to life or detrimental
to health.
   G.   Gambling: It shall be unlawful for any person to gamble, bet or permit
any form of gambling or betting in or upon any premises, unless specifically
authorized herein or by chapter 14, article V of this Code.
   H.   Business Vehicles: When a vehicle is registered to a nonresidential
address or to a residential address when the vehicle is used in connection with
a home based business, the owner of the vehicle shall obtain a vehicle sticker
in accordance with chapter 8, article VIII of this Code.
   I.   Obstruction By Maintenance Activity: It shall be unlawful for any
individual, commercial or nonprofit establishment to conduct any servicing,
repairing, assembling, modifying, restoring or similar activity of any cars,
trucks, trailers, lawnmowers, ATVs, snowmobiles, jet skis or any other self-
propelled vehicles, machines, or equipment upon any designated public street,
right-of-way or thoroughfare. Except for emergency vehicle repair work where
the vehicle is inoperable and incapable of being relocated for the necessary
repairs, all machinery maintenance, including oil changes, tire repair, small
parts change, minor routine maintenance and the like, shall only be permissible
on the premises or garages of the commercial or nonprofit establishment. At no
time may repairs of cars, trucks, trailers or any other self-propelled vehicles
be made on any lawn, sidewalk, apron, planting strip or street. Offenders shall
be subject to the monetary sanction provided for in Section
18.207 of this Code, in addition to any other penalty specifically provided for
in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016; amd. Ord. O-23-015, 6-
15-2023)
Sec. 4.108. Application Processing.
   A.   Incomplete Applications: Any application for occupancy, license or
registration required by this chapter that does not include all of the
information and documents required, shall be deemed to be incomplete and shall
not be acted on or processed by the City. The City shall, within five (5) days
of such submittal, return the incomplete application to the applicant along
with a written explanation of the reasons why the application is incomplete.
   B.   Decision Final: The action taken by the Development Administrator to
issue or deny an occupancy, license or registration pursuant, respectively, to
articles II, III, IV and V of this chapter shall be final and shall be subject
to judicial review under Administrative Review Law (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.),
which provisions are expressly adopted herein.
   C.   Change In Information: During the pendency of any application for, or
during the term of, any occupancy, license or registration, the applicant or
licensee shall promptly notify the Development Administrator in writing: 1) of
any change in any material information given by the applicant or licensee in
the application or registration; or 2) if any of the events constituting
grounds for suspension or revocation pursuant to section
4.109 of this article occur.
   D.   Administrative Record: The Development Administrator shall cause to be
kept in the Community Development Office an accurate record of every occupancy,
license and registration application received and acted on, together with all
relevant information and material pertaining to such application, any
occupancy, license and registration issued pursuant thereto, and any commercial
or nonprofit activities conducted pursuant to such occupancy, license or
registration. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016; amd. Ord. O-20-018, 7-16-2020)
Sec. 4.109. Revocation, Suspension Or Refusal.
   A.   Determination: Any occupancy, license or registration contemplated
under this chapter may be revoked or suspended by the City Manager or an
application for issuance or renewal of such occupancy, license or registration
may be refused if it is determined:
      1.   Misleading Statements: That the application of the applicant or
licensee contains any fraudulent or intentionally false or misleading material
statements; or
      2.   General Welfare: That the applicant or licensee has conducted any
activities directly related to his commercial or nonprofit activities in the
City in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the
peace or a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public; or
      3.   Offenses: The applicant is of good character and adequate fitness so
that he might conduct such business or activity in full compliance with all
ordinances of the City including the unified development ordinance and
applicable law. Such good character and adequate fitness is demonstrated, for
purposes of this section, by the applicant not having been:
         a.   Convicted of a felony by a court of competent jurisdiction, based
upon his/her conduct or involvement in such business or activity or related or
similar business or activity, within the past ten (10) years; or
         b.   Convicted of a felony by a court of competent jurisdiction,
unrelated to his/her conduct or involvement in such business or activity or
related or similar business or activity, but which felony involved the use of a
deadly weapon, traffic in narcotic drugs, or violence against another person,
including rape, within the past five (5) years; or
         c.   Convicted of a misdemeanor or licensing ordinance violation,
based upon his/her conduct or involvement in such business or activity or
related or similar business or activity, within the past two (2) years.
   B.   Hearing: Upon notice and hearing under administrative adjudication set
forth in chapter 18 of this Code, the occupancy, license or registration may be
revoked or suspended. No occupancy, license or registration shall be granted to
the licensee for the period of up to one year thereafter for the specified
activities on the premises described in the revocation. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-
2016)
Sec. 4.110. Violations.
Any person who violates, neglects, refuses to comply with, or assists or
participates in any way in the violation of any of the provisions or
requirements of this chapter shall be subject to enforcement as defined in
chapter 1, article IV of this Code, unless otherwise specified. Property owners
shall be jointly and severally liable where the provisions of this chapter
apply. The City reserves the right to seek injunctive relief, where
appropriate, to compel compliance with this chapter. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-
2016)
ARTICLE II
COMMERCIAL OCCUPANCY
SECTION:
4.201. Applicability
4.202. Commercial Occupancy Certificate Required
4.203. Term
4.204. Application For Commercial Occupancy
4.205. Inspections
4.206. Issuance Of Commercial Occupancy Certificate
4.207. Fees
4.208. Posting Of Certificate
Sec. 4.201. Applicability.
The requirements of this article shall apply to all nonresidential buildings or
structures, or any space therein, within the City. Certain activities may also
be subject to the provisions of articles III, IV and V of this chapter and
chapter 5 of this Code. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.202. Commercial Occupancy Certificate Required.
Unless a commercial occupancy certificate (COC) shall have first been obtained
from the Development Administrator, it shall be unlawful for any person to
occupy or use in whole or in part for any purpose any nonresidential building
or structure within the City. Each commercial and nonprofit establishment in
the City shall obtain a commercial occupancy certificate in the following
instances:
   A.   New Construction: Prior to occupying a newly constructed nonresidential
building or structure;
   B.   New Commercial Occupancy: Prior to occupying an existing nonresidential
structure;
   C.   Change Of Business Name: Within thirty (30) days of a change in name of
the business or nonprofit establishment;
   D.   Transfer Of Ownership, Business Or Property: Within seven (7) days of a
change in business or property ownership;
   E.   Change In Activities: Prior to making any change in the approved
commercial or nonprofit activities; and
   F.   Continuation (Renewal) Of Existing Commercial Occupancy: Prior to the
expiration of the commercial occupancy certificate. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.203. Term.
A commercial occupancy certificate is valid for one year with an expiration
date as identified on the certificate. It is the responsibility of the
certificate holder to renew the COC prior to its expiration each year. The
expiration of a COC shall be based on the geographic location of the premises,
wherein a map of the geographic areas to be used in the administration of this
article will be published and retained by the Development Administrator. (Ord.
O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.204. Application For Commercial Occupancy.
A Commercial Occupancy Certificate (COC) is required before occupancy or use by
a tenant or owner of a building or unit therein.
   A.   Concurrent Application: The filing of an application for commercial
occupancy will also serve as the application required in article III of this
chapter, where applicable.
   B.   Information Required: The form, prescribed by the Development
Administrator, on which any application for such commercial occupancy
designated herein is made shall be signed by the applicant if an individual or
partnership, or by a duly authorized agent thereof if a non-profit or
corporation and shall contain, but shall not be limited to containing, the
following information:
      1.   Address and suite, if applicable, of the property to be occupied.
      2.   Identity of each fee simple owner of the licensed premises, to
include names and contact information of the property owner(s) and property
manager(s).
      3.   If the applicant is not the fee simple owner, a copy of the lease
shall be provided.
      4.   The specific name of the business that is to be operated on the
premises.
      5.   Name and contact information of applicant.
      6.   Federal IRS employer identification number of the occupant.
      7.   The number of the certificate of registration required under the
Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, Service Occupation Tax Act, and/or Use Tax Act
of the State of Illinois, if applicable.
      8.   Area of space to be occupied (in square feet).
      9.   Use/occupancy classification and a statement describing the
activities to be conducted within or on the premises.
      10.   Identify any or all business activities to be conducted on the
premises, including:
         a.   Selling or serving liquor.
         b.   Selling tobacco products.
         c.   Providing money services.
         d.   Video gaming.
         e.   Transporting.
         f.   Storing hazardous materials on-site.
         g.   Business vehicles are registered to the business location.
      11.   NAICS code - identification of business type as classified by the
U.S. Census Bureau.
      12.   The names, addresses and phone numbers of no less than three (3)
key holders (emergency contacts) who have authorized and immediate access to
the premises.
      13.   A statement disclosing whether any hazardous material, as defined
in the U.S. Department of Transportation regulations (49 CFR section 173.1 et
seq.), is located on the premises or any outbuilding in sufficient quantity so
as to pose an imminent threat to the health and safety of emergency responders
in the event of a fire or other disaster. A hazardous material shall include,
but is not limited to:
         a.   Explosives (49 CFR section 173.50).
         b.   Compressed gases (49 CFR section 173.115).
         c.   Flammable liquids (49 CFR section 173.120).
         d.   Flammable solids (49 CFR section 173.124).
         e.   Oxidizers and organic peroxides (49 CFR section 173.127).
         f.   Poisonous agents (49 CFR section 173.132).
         g.   Radioactive material (49 CFR section 173.403).
         h.   Corrosive material (49 CFR section 173.136).
         i.   Miscellaneous (49 CFR section 173.140).
      14.   A list of all, if any, business vehicles to be used by the
commercial or non-profit establishment, to include the license plate numbers of
each and an affidavit certifying that each vehicle has the required insurance
coverage.
      15.   Any additional information as required by the Development
Administrator. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 4.205. Inspections.
   A.   Inspections Required: A passing inspection is required prior to the
issuance of a COC for new construction, new occupancies, expansion of an
existing use or occupancy, change in activities and renewal occupancies. The
premises shall be inspected to determine compliance with zoning, health, fire
and safety provisions of this Code. It shall be the duty of the licensee or the
person in charge of the premises to admit thereto, for the purpose of making
the inspection, any City officer or employee who is duly authorized to make
such inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is
requested. When applicable and in order to adequately conduct the inspection,
the applicant may be given approval by the City to move equipment and furniture
into the space prior to obtaining a COC. In some instances, the Development
Administrator may require a site and/or floor plan prior to the inspection,
which will be verified during the inspection.
   B.   Exemptions: Inspections are not required prior to the issuance of a COC
for transfer of ownership for the business, organization or property or a
change of business name, provided that the approved use, activities or building
layout are not proposed to change.
   C.   Analyses: Whenever an analysis of any commodity or materials is
reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance
or regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to provide an analysis upon
official request. Such an analysis shall be conducted at the expense of the
licensee or permittee or the person desiring the COC.
   D.   Refusal To Allow Inspections And Analyses: In addition to any other
penalty which may be provided, the Development Administrator shall not issue a
COC for any establishment whose owner or operator refuses to permit any duly
authorized officer or employee to make such inspection or to provide requested
analyses, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of his duties. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.206. Issuance Of Commercial Occupancy Certificate.
The Development Administrator shall not issue a COC until receipt of a
completed application, all required documentation, payment in full for all fees
and liens imposed by the City and all noted violations of this chapter and
other applicable ordinances have been remedied. Each COC shall identify the
current business/organization information and a description of approved
commercial or nonprofit activities conducted on the premises. (Ord. O-16-033,
11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.207. Fees.
   A.   Commercial Occupancy Fee: All occupancies within the corporate limits
of the City shall be assessed fees as specified in the master fee schedule.
   B.   Proration Prohibited: No refunds shall be made, and no fees shall be
prorated; provided, however, that when an inspection is not required the fee
may be reduced by the cost of the inspection. The current year fees will not
apply for initial COC applications received within two (2) months of when the
premises would be due to renew.
   C.   Fee Waiver: Fees that would apply to non-profit establishments
recognized by the Internal Revenue Service and governmental entities are hereby
waived. The Development Administrator shall maintain a record of all fees
waived under this provision.
   D.   Re-Inspections: The fee schedule allows one re-inspection. However, if
more than one re-inspection is needed, the applicant does not allow access, or
the location is not ready for a scheduled inspection, the applicant shall pay
re-inspection fees as specified in the master fee schedule.
   E.   Penalty: In the event that a COC is not obtained prior to occupying a
non-residential space or the certificate expiration date, the fee specified in
the master fee schedule shall apply. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 4.208. Posting Of Certificate.
The commercial occupancy certificate shall be posted in a prominent place on
the premises at all times. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
ARTICLE III
ANNUAL BUSINESS LICENSES
SECTION:
4.301. Applicability
4.302. General Business Licensing Requirements
4.303. Amusements
4.304. Reserved
4.305. Vending Machines
4.306. Cigarette And Tobacco Dealers
4.307. Money Services
4.308. Adult Entertainment Establishments
4.309. Massage Establishments
4.310. Transporters
4.311. Commercial Land Leasing
Sec. 4.301. Applicability.
The requirements of this article shall apply to specific businesses and uses as
defined herein. Where a business subject to this article is occupying a
building, structure or space therein, the requirements of article II of this
chapter shall also apply and will be administered concurrently with this
article. Certain activities may also be subject to the provisions of articles
IV and V of this chapter and chapter 5 of this Code. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-
2016)
Sec. 4.302. General Business Licensing Requirements.
   A.   License Required: Except as otherwise provided in this article, it
shall be unlawful for any person engaging in the specific commercial activities
as enumerated below, either individually or through an agent, employee or
partner, for which a license is required by any provision of this article, to
do so without first having obtained a license from the Development
Administrator for such use or activity. Each business subject to this article
shall obtain a business license in the following instances, and in conjunction
with article II of this chapter where applicable:
      1.   New Business: Prior to operating a new commercial establishment in
the City.
      2.   New Location: Each location at which the business activities are to
be conducted must have a separate business license.
      3.   Change Of Business Name: Within thirty (30) days of a change of
business name.
      4.   Transfer Of Ownership, Business Or Property: Within seven (7) days
of a change in business or property ownership.
      5.   Separate License For Each Business Activity: Except as otherwise
provided, where a person conducts more than one activity for which a license is
required, such person must obtain a separate license for each such activity in
which such person is engaged.
      6.   Renewal Of Business Activities: Prior to the expiration of the
business license and/or COC.
   B.   Term: Business licenses shall have the same term as specified in
section
4.203 of this chapter, whether or not a COC is required.
   C.   Application Requirements:
      1.   In Conjunction With A COC: When a COC and business license are both
required, the business license and COC application shall be concurrent and in
accordance with section
4.204 of this chapter.
      2.   When No COC Is Required: When a COC is not required, the business
license application shall be on a form prescribed by the Development
Administrator and must be received and issued prior to operating the business
activities.
      3.   Background Investigations: When a background investigation is
required as part of the application process, each application shall also
include the following:
         a.   The application must be signed: 1) by the applicant, if the
applicant is an individual; 2) by at least one of the persons entitled to share
in the profits of the organization and having unlimited personal liability for
the obligations of the organization and the right to bind all other such
persons, if the applicant is a partnership (general or limited), joint venture,
or any other type of organization where two (2) or more persons share in the
profits and liabilities of the organization; 3) by a duly authorized agent, if
the applicant is a corporation; or 4) by the trustee, if the applicant is a
trust.
         b.   Based on the ownership structure, the following will be required
at the discretion of the Chief of Police:
            (1)   Individuals: The applicant's legal name, all of the
applicant's aliases, the applicant's business address and social security
number, written proof of the applicant's age, the citizenship and place of
birth of the applicant and, if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of the
applicant's naturalization.
            (2)   Corporations: The applicant corporation's complete name and
official business address; the legal name, all aliases, and the ages, business
addresses, and social security numbers of all the directors, officers, and
managers of the corporation and every person owning or controlling more than
twenty percent (20%) of the voting shares of the corporation; the corporation's
date and place of incorporation and the object for which it was formed; proof
that the corporation is a corporation in good standing and authorized to
conduct business in the State of Illinois; and the name of the registered
corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service of
process.
            (3)   Partnerships: Partnerships (general or limited), joint
ventures, or any other type of organization where two (2) or more persons share
in the profits and liabilities of the organization. The applicant
organization's complete name and official business address; the legal name, all
aliases, and the ages, business addresses, and social security numbers of each
partner (other than limited partners) or any other person entitled to share in
the profits of the organization, whether or not any such person is also
obligated to share in the liabilities of the organization.
            (4)   Trusts: The applicant trust's complete name; the legal name,
all aliases, and the business address of the trustee of the trust; the legal
name, all aliases, and the ages, businesses addresses, and social security
numbers of each beneficiary of the trust and the specific interest of each such
beneficiary in the trust; and the interest, if any, that the trust holds in the
licensed premises.
         c.   The name, address, date of birth, telephone number and social
security number of the individual or individuals who shall be the day-to-day,
on-site managers of the establishment.
         d.   The applicant shall see to it that for the individual or
individuals executing the application, and the individual or individuals
identified pursuant to items 2 and 3 of subsection C3a of this section, submit
themselves for fingerprinting by the Wood Dale Police Department along with a
fully executed waiver on a form prescribed by the City to obtain criminal
conviction information pursuant to the Illinois Uniform Conviction Information
Act.
         e.   Any license that requires a background investigation shall pay
the fee pursuant to the master fee schedule.
         f.   A statement whether the applicant has made an application for a
similar or other license on premises other than those described in this
application and the disposition of such application.
         g.   A statement whether a previous license by any state or
subdivision thereof or by the Federal government has been revoked and the
reasons therefor.
         h.   The applicant shall furnish the City a surety bond in the amount
as specified in the master fee schedule in a form acceptable to the City. Such
bond shall provide against any violation by the principal, his agents or
employees of any of the terms of this chapter as amended, or any ordinance,
rules and regulations now in force or which may hereafter be in force in the
City affecting the operation of his business.
         i.   Upon issuance of a business license, licensees shall maintain on-
site an accurate register of all employees. For each such employee, the
register shall include the following information:
            (1)   Legal name.
            (2)   Any and all aliases.
            (3)   Date of birth.
            (4)   Gender.
            (5)   Social security number.
            (6)   Date of commencement of employment.
            (7)   Date of employment termination, if applicable.
            (8)   Specific job or employment duties.
The register shall be maintained for all current employees and all employees
employed at any time during the preceding thirty six (36) months. The licensee
shall make the register available for inspection by the City immediately upon
demand at all reasonable times, to check compliance with this section or for
any other legitimate purpose.
      4.   Incomplete Applications Returned: Any application for a business
license that does not include all of the information and documents required,
shall be deemed to be incomplete and shall not be acted on or processed by the
City. The City shall, within ten (10) days of such submittal, return the
incomplete application to the applicant along with a written explanation of the
reasons why the application is incomplete.
   D.   Inspections:
      1.   Inspections Required:
         a.   In Conjunction With COC: Premises that have concurrent business
license and COC applications shall be inspected prior to license issuance in
accordance with section
4.205 of this chapter.
         b.   When No COC Is Required: Businesses that do not require a COC
shall pass an inspection prior to issuance of a license for new businesses,
expansion of or change in business activities and renewal business licenses.
The premises will be inspected jointly by the City and the Wood Dale Fire
Protection District staff, who will determine compliance with zoning, health,
fire and safety provisions of this Code. It shall be the duty of the licensee
or the person in charge of the premises to admit thereto, for the purpose of
making the inspection, any City officer or employee who is duly authorized to
make such inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is
requested. In some instances, the Development Administrator may require a site
plan prior to the inspection, which will be verified during the inspection.
      2.   Exemptions: Inspections are not required prior to the issuance of a
business license for transfer of ownership for the business, organization or
property or a change of business name, provided that the approved activities
are not proposed to change.
      3.   Periodic Inspections: In addition to the inspection required prior
to issuance of a license, the City shall periodically inspect businesses as
shall be necessary to determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter
and all other applicable law.
      4.   Analyses: Whenever an analysis of any commodity or materials is
reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance
or regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to provide an analysis upon
official request. Such an analysis shall be conducted at the expense of the
licensee or permittee or the person desiring the COC.
      5.   Refusal To Allow Inspections And Analyses: In addition to any other
penalty which may be provided, the Development Administrator shall not issue a
COC for any establishment whose owner or operator refuses to permit any duly
authorized officer or employee to make such inspection or to provide requested
analyses, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of his duties.
   E.   Issuance Of Business License: The Development Administrator shall not
issue a business license for the businesses or activities listed in this
article, whether or not it is in conjunction with a COC, until payment has been
received in full for all fees and liens imposed by the City and all noted
violations of this chapter and other applicable ordinances have been remedied.
The Development Administrator shall issue a license when, from a consideration
of the application and such other information as may be otherwise obtained, it
is determined that:
      1.   The applicant has such experience in that business or activity, in
business generally, or in other similar activities, so that he might conduct
such business or activity in full compliance with all ordinances of the City
including the unified development ordinance and applicable law.
      2.   The business or activity will not create an unreasonable danger of
nuisance to the neighborhood in which it is located, nor will create a danger
of substantial breach of the peace, riot or similar disorder.
      3.   The business or activity will not be conducted for an unlawful
purpose.
      4.   The business or activity will not interfere with the safe and
orderly movement of traffic and persons on the public ways of the City.
      5.   The business or activity will not create a hazard to the health or
safety of the residents of the City, nor to the health of domestic or wild
plants and animals in the City.
   F.   Fees:
      1.   Schedule Of Annual License Fees: All businesses regulated by this
article shall be assessed fees as specified in the master fee schedule.
      2.   Re-Inspections: The fee schedule allows one re-inspection. However,
if more than one re-inspection is needed, the applicant does not allow access,
or the location is not ready for the scheduled inspection, the applicant will
be required to pay re- inspection fees as specified in the master fee schedule.
      3.   Penalty: In the event that a business license is not obtained prior
to operating a business or the license expiration date, the fee as specified in
the master fee schedule shall apply.
   G.   Posting Of License: It shall be the duty of every person conducting a
licensed business or activity to keep the license posted in a prominent place
on the premises used for such business, including applicable devices, machines
and vehicles, at all times. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 4.303. Amusements.
   A.   License Required: No person shall install, operate or maintain for the
use by the public any amusement device(s) prior to obtaining a license from the
City in the manner provided in section
4.302 of this article.
   B.   Conduct: The premises upon which is located any amusement licensed
under the provisions of this section shall be operated in accordance with the
following regulations:
      1.   All persons present upon the premises containing any amusement
device shall conduct themselves in an orderly manner so as not to disturb the
peace and quiet of those premises by disorderly conduct as defined in this
Code.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or attendant hereunder to
permit any noise, either by mechanical or electronic means, or noise on the
part of the patrons, which shall cause a disturbance to uses adjacent and/or
surrounding the licensed premises as would cause the normal use of said
adjacent and/or surrounding uses to be damaged or unreasonably disturbed.
      3.   All licensees and attendants hereunder shall have the affirmative
duty to report to the Wood Dale Police Department any and all incidents or a
disturbance of the peace which takes place within the licensed premises or
outside the licensed premises within one hundred feet (100') from the entrance,
whether personally observed or upon observation and notification by another.
   C.   Hours Of Operation: Unless pursuant to chapter 5 of this Code, it shall
be unlawful within the corporate limits of the City for any person to keep
open, operate or use any premises for which a license is required under the
terms of this section:
      1.   On Sundays, before the hour of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M., and after
the hour of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following day; and
      2.   On Mondays through Thursdays, before the hour of six o'clock (6:00)
A.M., and after the hour of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following day; and
      3.   On Fridays and Saturdays, before the hour of six o'clock (6:00)
A.M., and after the hour of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the following day.
   D.   Notice Posted: Every such amusement device shall have posted on its
front a notice stating the name, address, and telephone number of the owner, or
if not operated and maintained by the owner, then the name, address and
telephone number of the person operating and maintaining it. Such notice shall
also include a telephone number and instructions for reporting malfunctioning
machines, problems with the services and products dispensed by the machine, and
receipt of refunds.
   E.   Amusement Arcade:
      1.   Any amusement arcade shall be contained within a completely enclosed
building which shall have no openings other than self- closing doors and/or
stationary insulated glass windows facing any adjacent residentially zoned
property.
      2.   Any amusement arcade shall be insulated to prevent excessive lights,
noise or any other offensive factors from penetration into or onto any property
within one hundred feet (100') of said amusement arcade.
      3.   Any amusement arcade shall be physically separated from a business
establishment of another character whenever such amusement arcade is located
within, or in conjunction with, said business. Such physical separation shall
be by way of partitions, doors, etc., which insulate said business from the
noise of said amusement arcade.
      4.   During the hours that any amusement arcade licensed under the terms
of this section is in operation, each licensee shall provide one full time
attendant for the first twenty (20) amusement devices and one attendant for
every twenty (20) additional amusement devices, or fractional portion thereof,
located upon the licensed premises. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.304. Reserved.
(Ord. O-17-010, 5-18-2017)
Sec. 4.305. Vending Machines.
   A.   License Required: No person or business shall have or operate a vending
machine prior to obtaining a vending license. Each vending machine shall have
its own license and the license must be conspicuously affixed to it.
   B.   Application:
      1.   When applying for this license in conjunction with a COC, pursuant
to article II of this chapter, the application must include the number of
vending machines by location on the site.
      2.   When applying for this license and the applicant does not occupy the
subject premises according to the COC:
         a.   A separate application, on a form provided by the Development
Administrator, shall be required for each location that identifies the number
of vending machines by location on the site.
         b.   If being located on property owned by the City of Wood Dale,
locations must be first approved by the Development Administrator.
         c.   If being located on private property, permission by property
owner must be submitted to install/locate vending machines at that location.
   C.   General Requirements:
      1.   All vending machines required to be licensed under this section
shall be maintained in a sanitary, safe, and operating condition.
      2.   All food and drinks dispensed by such machines shall be wholesome
and fresh, and no product shall be dispensed beyond any expiration date marked
on it.
      3.   Every such vending machine shall have posted on its front a notice
stating the name, address, and telephone number of the owner, or if not
operated and maintained by the owner, then the name, address and telephone
number of the person operating and maintaining it. Such notice shall also
include a telephone number and instructions for reporting malfunctioning
machines, problems with the services and products dispensed by the machine, and
receipt of refunds. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.306. Cigarette And Tobacco Dealers.
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the sale of cigarettes,
electronic cigarettes or their components, cigars or tobacco in any form at
retail within the corporate limits of the City without having obtained a
license from the City in the manner provided in section 4.302 of this article.
   B.   Prohibited Signs And Delivery:
      1.   Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided for
herein shall be posted by every licensee at or near every display of tobacco
products or electronic cigarettes or their components and on or upon every
vending machine which offers tobacco products or electronic cigarettes or their
components for sale. Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
         THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS OR ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES OR THEIR
COMPONENTS TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTYONE (21) YEARS OF AGE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.
         The text of such signs shall be in red letters on a white background,
said letters to be at least one inch (1") high.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give
away or deliver tobacco products or electronic cigarettes or their components
within one hundred feet (100') of any school, childcare facility or other
building used for education or recreational programs for persons under the age
of twenty-one (21) years.
   C.   Minimum Age to Sell Tobacco Products: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee
of such licensee, to engage, employ or permit any person under sixteen (16)
years of age to sell tobacco products or electronic cigarettes or their
components in any licensed premises.
   D.   Purchase or possession By Minors Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to purchase or possess
tobacco products, or electronic cigarettes or their components, or to
misrepresent their identity or age, or to use any false or altered
identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products.
   E.   Certain Free Distributions Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee or any person in the business of selling or otherwise distributing,
promoting or advertising tobacco products or electronic cigarettes or their
components, or any employee or agent of any such licensee or person, in the
course of such licensee's or person's business, to distribute, give away or
deliver tobacco products or electronic cigarettes or their components free of
charge to any person on any right-of-way, park, playground, or other property
owned by the City, any school district, any park district or any public
library.
   F.   Responsibility For Agents And Employees: Every act or omission of
whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any of the provisions of this
section by any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any
licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such licensee; and such
licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if such act or omission had
been done or omitted by the licensee personally. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016;
amd. Ord. O-19-022, 7-18-2019)
Sec. 4.307. Money Services.
   A.   License Required: No person shall operate or carry on money services
activities prior to obtaining a license from the City in the manner provided in
section
4.302 of this article. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
   B.   Application: A completed business license application for money
services must be accompanied by a background investigation pursuant to
subsection
4.302C3 of this article and associated fee(s) pursuant to subsection
4.302F of the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016; amd. Ord. O-18-
025, 7-19-2018)
   C.   General Operating Requirements For Money Services Businesses:
      1.   Every money services licensee that shall receive or be in possession
of any goods, articles or things of value which may have been lost or stolen
shall, upon demand, produce such article or thing to any member of law
enforcement for examination.
      2.   Maintain an accurate and current register of items sold and
purchased and the amount for, where applicable.
      3.   Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his business,
shall bear thereon in legible characters, the name and address of the owner and
proprietor thereof.
      4.   No person shall operate or maintain a junkyard within the corporate
limits of the City. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.308. Adult Entertainment Establishments.
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to regulate adult use
businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the citizens of the City, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of adult use
businesses within the City. The provisions of this section have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of
any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly,
it is neither the intent nor effect of this section to restrict or deny access
by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or
to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of adult use entertainment to
their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this section to
condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   B.   License Required: No person shall establish, operate or maintain an
adult entertainment establishment prior to obtaining a license from the City in
the manner pursuant to this section and section
4.302 of this article. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
   C.   Application: A completed business license application for an adult
entertainment establishment must be accompanied by a background investigation
pursuant to subsection
4.302C3 of this article and associated fee(s) pursuant to subsection
4.302F of the master fee schedule. In addition to the application requirements
in section
4.204 of this chapter and subsection
4.302C of this article, the following information or documents must be
provided: (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016; amd. Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
      1.   The general character and nature of the business of the applicant.
      2.   The length of time that the applicant has been in the business of
the character specified in response to the paragraph above.
      3.   A diagram showing the internal and external configuration of the
licensed premises, including all doors, windows, entrances, exits, the fixed
structural internal features of the licensed premises, plus the interior rooms,
walls, partitions, stages, performance areas, and restrooms. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall
not be required; provided, however that each diagram shall be oriented to the
north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn to a designated
scale or with marked dimensions to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches
(±6") and sufficient to show clearly the various interior dimensions of all
areas of the licensed premises and to demonstrate compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. The requirements of this paragraph shall not apply
for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted for the license sought to be renewed and if the licensee certified
that the licensed premises has not been altered since the immediately preceding
issuance of the license and that the previous diagram continues to accurately
depict the exterior and interior layouts of the licensed premises. The approval
or use of the diagram required pursuant to this paragraph shall not be deemed
to be, and shall not be interpreted or construed to constitute, any other City
approval otherwise required pursuant to applicable City ordinances and
regulations.
      4.   The names of each governmental body from which, within five (5)
years immediately prior to the date of the present application, the applicant,
or any of the individuals identified in the application, has received a license
or other authorization to conduct or operate a business: a) substantially the
same as an adult entertainment establishment, and the names and addresses of
each such business; b) requiring a Federal, State, or local liquor license; or
c) requiring a Federal, State, or local gaming license.
      5.   The specific type or types of adult entertainment establishment(s)
that the applicant proposes to operate on the licensed premises.
      6.   A copy of each adult entertainment establishment license, liquor
license, and gaming license currently held by the applicant, or any of the
individuals identified in the application.
      7.   Whether the applicant or any of the individuals identified in the
application has been, within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of
the application, convicted of, or pleaded nolo contendere to, any specified
criminal act. As to each conviction, the applicant or other individual shall
provide the conviction date, the case number, the nature of the misdemeanor or
felony violation(s) or offense(s), and the name and location of the court.
      8.   Whether the applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the
application, has had a license or other authorization to conduct or operate a
business substantially the same as an adult entertainment establishment or any
business requiring either a liquor or gaming license, revoked or suspended,
and, if so, the date and grounds for each such revocation or suspension, and
the name and location of the establishment at issue.
   D.   Standards For Issuance Or Denial Of License:
      1.   Issuance: The Development Administrator shall issue an adult
establishment license to an applicant if, but only if, he/she finds and
determines all of the following, based on the reports, investigations, and
inspections conducted and on any other credible information on which it is
reasonable for the City to rely:
         a.   All information and documents required by subsection C of this
section for issuance of an adult establishment license have been properly
provided and the material statements made in the application are true and
correct.
         b.   For adult entertainment establishments, all persons identified in
the application pursuant to subsection 4.302C3 of this article and subsection C
of this section are at least eighteen (18) years of age and not under any legal
disability.
         c.   No person identified in the application pursuant to subsection
4.302C3 of this article and subsection C of this section has been convicted of,
pleaded nolo contendere to, or been placed on supervision or conditional
discharge for, any specified criminal act within five (5) years immediately
preceding the date of the application.
         d.   No person identified in the application pursuant to subsection
4.302C3 of this article and subsection C of this section has been convicted of,
pleaded nolo contendere to, or been placed on supervision or conditional
discharge for, any violation of a provision of this section within five (5)
years immediately preceding the date of the application.
         e.   No person identified in the application pursuant to subsection
4.302C3 of this article and subsection C of this section is residing with, or
married to, a person: 1) who has been denied an adult establishment license
within twelve (12) months immediately preceding the date of the application, 2)
whose adult establishment license has been revoked within twelve (12) months
immediately preceding the date of the application, or 3) whose adult
establishment license is under suspension at the time of application.
         f.   No adult entertainment establishment license shall be issued to
any person for the premises for which a massage business license or a liquor
license has been issued as provided in this Code.
      2.   Denial: If the Development Administrator determines that the
applicant has not met any one or more of the conditions set forth in subsection
D1 of this section, then the Development Administrator shall deny issuance of
the adult establishment license and shall give the applicant a written
notification and explanation of such denial.
   E.   General Regulations For All Adult Entertainment Establishments:
      1.   Hours Of Operation:
         a.   No adult entertainment establishment shall be open for business
at any time on any State of Illinois or Federal holiday.
         b.   No adult entertainment establishment shall be open for business
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and eleven o'clock (11:00)
A.M. on any day.
      2.   Animals: No animals, except only for animals trained and used to
assist a person with a disability shall be permitted at any time at or in any
adult entertainment establishment.
      3.   Restricted Areas: No patron shall be permitted at any time to enter
into any of the nonpublic portions of any adult entertainment establishment,
including specifically, but without limitation, any storage areas or dressing
or other rooms provided for the benefit of establishment employees. This
subsection shall not apply to persons delivering goods and materials, food and
beverages, or performing maintenance or repairs to the licensed premises;
provided, however, that any such persons shall remain in such nonpublic areas
only for the purposes and to the extent and time necessary to perform their job
duties.
      4.   Specific Prohibited Acts:
         a.   No person at any adult entertainment establishment shall appear,
be present, or perform while nude. No patron shall appear, be present or
perform while seminude.
         b.   No person at any adult entertainment establishment shall perform
or conduct any specified sexual activity with or for any patron or any other
employee or any other person. No person at any adult entertainment
establishment shall perform or conduct any specified sexual activity with or
for any employee, patron or any other person.
         c.   Straddle dances shall be prohibited at all adult entertainment
establishments.
      5.   Exterior Display: No adult entertainment establishment shall be
maintained or operated in any manner that causes, creates, or allows public
viewing of any adult material, or any entertainment depicting, describing, or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, from any
sidewalk, public or private right-of-way, or any property other than the lot on
which the licensed premises is located. This subsection shall apply to any
advertisement, display, promotional material, decoration, or sign; to any
performance or show; and to any window, door, or other opening.
      6.   Noise: No loudspeakers or sound equipment audible beyond the
licensed premises shall be used at any time.
      7.   Alcohol Prohibition: No alcoholic liquor shall be delivered,
received, sold, purchased, provided or consumed by any person on the premises
of an adult entertainment establishment.
      8.   Adult Booths: Adult booths shall be prohibited in all adult
entertainment establishments.
      9.   Massages: No massage as regulated by section 4.309 of this article
shall be provided at an adult entertainment establishment.
      10.   Age Limitations:
         a.   No employee or patron at a licensed adult entertainment
establishment used shall be under the age of eighteen (18).
         b.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) shall be allowed or
permitted to purchase, receive, whether for consideration or not, any adult
material or other goods or services at or from any adult entertainment
establishment.
      11.   Criminal Acts: No adult entertainment establishment licensee shall
permit any person to remain in or upon the licensed premises who commits any
specified criminal act.
   F.   Adult Cabarets:
      1.   Performance Area: The performance area of an adult cabaret shall be
limited to one or more stages or platforms permanently anchored to the floor (a
"cabaret stage"). Each cabaret stage shall be elevated above the level of, and
separate from, the patron seating areas. Each cabaret stage shall be separated
by a distance of at least eighteen inches (18") from all areas of the premises
to which patrons have access. A continuous barrier at least two feet (2') in
height and located at least eighteen inches (18") from all points of each
cabaret stage shall separate each cabaret stage from all seating areas. No
patron shall be allowed at any time on any cabaret stage.
      2.   Lighting: Sufficient lighting shall be provided and equally
distributed throughout the public areas of the adult cabaret so that all
objects are plainly visible at all times. A minimum lighting of not less than
thirty (30) lux horizontal, measured at thirty inches (30") from the floor and
on ten foot (10') centers shall be maintained at all times for all areas of the
adult cabaret where patrons are admitted.
      3.   Tipping: No patron shall offer, and no employee having performed on
any cabaret stage shall accept, in any form of tip or gratuity offered directly
or personally to the employee by the patron. Rather, all tips and gratuities to
employees performing on any cabaret stage shall be placed into a receptacle
provided for receipt of such tips and gratuities by the adult entertainment
establishment or shall be placed by the patron on the cabaret stage on which
the employee is performing.
      4.   Notice Of Select Rules: A sign at least two feet by two feet (2' x
2'), with letters at least one inch (1") high shall be conspicuously displayed
on or adjacent to every cabaret stage stating the following:
         THIS ADULT CABARET IS REGULATED BY THE CITY OF WOOD DALE. ENTERTAINERS
ARE:
            a.    NOT PERMITTED TO ENGAGE IN ANY TYPE OF SEXUAL CONDUCT.
            b.    NOT PERMITTED TO ACCEPT ANY TIPS DIRECTLY OR PERSONALLY FROM
PATRONS. ANY SUCH TIPS MUST BE PLACED INTO THE RECEPTACLE PROVIDED BY
MANAGEMENT OR MUST BE PLACED DIRECTLY ON THE CABARET STAGE.
            c.    NO ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IS PERMITTED AT ANY TIME.
   G.   Adult Theaters:
      1.   Seating: Each adult theater shall provide seating only in individual
chairs with arms or in seats separated from each other by immovable arms and
not on couches, benches, or any other multiple person seating structures. The
number of seats shall equal the maximum number of persons who may occupy the
adult theater.
      2.   Aisle: Each adult theater shall have a continuous main aisle
alongside the seating area in order that each person seated in the adult
theater shall be visible at all times.
      3.   Sign: Each adult theater shall have a sign posted in a conspicuous
place at or near each entranceway to the auditorium or similar area that lists
the maximum number of persons who may occupy the auditorium area, which number
shall not exceed the number of seats in the auditorium area. (Ord. O-16-033,
11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.309. Massage Establishments.
   A.   License Required: A massage establishment license shall be required to
establish, operate, or maintain a massage establishment within the City. No
person shall engage in the business of operating a massage establishment in the
City without a valid and current massage establishment license therefor issued
by the City pursuant to the terms of this chapter. A separate massage
establishment license shall be required for each massage establishment location
regardless of whether such multiple establishments are operated by the same
person.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   No massage establishment license shall be required for any
hospitals, nursing homes and persons holding an unrevoked certificate to
practice the healing arts under the laws of the State, or to those working
under the direction of any such persons in any such establishments.
      2.   No massage establishment license shall be required for any barber,
cosmetologist, nail technician or related occupation and lawfully carrying on
their respective businesses. Provided, this exemption is only intended to
permit normal and customary barber, cosmetologist, nail technician or related
services which involve incidental physical contact, such as manicures, scalp
rubs and facials, which would otherwise qualify as massage activities. This
exemption is not intended, and does not permit, general massage activities as
part of any barber, cosmetologist or related business beyond that authorized by
their State license or certification.
      3.   No massage establishment license shall be required for an individual
therapist massage establishment.
      4.   Where massage services are actually performed at the patron's
premises, including the patron's place of business or residence, a massage
establishment license shall not be required for such patron's premises. (Ord.
O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
   C.   Application Requirements: A completed business license application for
a massage establishment must be accompanied by a background investigation
pursuant to subsection
4.302C3 of this article and associated fee(s) pursuant to subsection 4.302F of
the master fee schedule. In addition to the application requirements in section
4.204 of this chapter and subsection 4.302C of this article, the following
information or documents must be provided: (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016; amd.
Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
      1.   A description of the manner in which the proposed massage
establishment will be conducted.
      2.   The length of time that the applicant has been in the massage
business.
      3.   A diagram showing the internal and external configuration of the
licensed premises, including all doors, windows, entrances, exits, the fixed
structural internal features of the licensed premises, plus the interior rooms,
walls, partitions, stages, performance areas, and restrooms. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall
not be required; provided, however that each diagram shall be oriented to the
north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn to a designated
scale or with marked dimensions to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches
(±6") and sufficient to show clearly the various interior dimensions of all
areas of the licensed premises and to demonstrate compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. The requirements of this paragraph shall not apply
for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted for the license sought to be renewed and if the licensee certifies
that the licensed premises has not been altered since the immediately preceding
issuance of the license and that the previous diagram continues to accurately
depict the exterior and interior layouts of the licensed premises. The approval
or use of the diagram required pursuant to this paragraph shall not be deemed
to be, and shall not be interpreted or construed to constitute, any other City
approval otherwise required pursuant to applicable City ordinances and
regulations.
      4.   The names of each governmental body which, within five (5) years
immediately prior to the date of the present application, the applicant, or any
of the individuals identified in the application pursuant to subsection
4.302C3 of this article and this subsection C has applied for, received or been
denied a license or other authorization to conduct or operate a business: a)
substantially the same as a massage establishment, and the names and addresses
of each such business; b) requiring a Federal, State, or local liquor license;
or c) requiring a Federal, State, or local gaming license.
      5.   The specific type or types of massage establishment(s) that the
applicant proposes to operate in the licensed premises.
      6.   A copy of each massage establishment license, liquor license, and
gaming license from any governmental entity and currently held by the
applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the application pursuant to
subsection 4.302C3 of this article and this subsection C.
      7.   Whether the applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to subsection 4.302C3 of this article and this subsection
C, has been, within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the
application, convicted of, or pleaded nolo contendere to, any specified
criminal act. As to each conviction, the applicant or other individual shall
provide the conviction date, the case number, the nature of the misdemeanor or
felony violation(s) or offense(s), and the name and location of the court.
      8.   Whether the applicant, or any of the individuals identified in the
application pursuant to subsection
4.302C3 of this article and this subsection C, has had a license or other
authorization to conduct or operate a business substantially the same as a
massage establishment or any business requiring either a liquor or gaming
license, revoked or suspended by any governmental entity, and, if so, the date
and grounds for each such revocation or suspension, and the name and location
of the establishment at issue.
   D.   Standards For Issuance Or Denial:
      1.   Issuance: The Development Administrator shall issue a massage
establishment license to an applicant if, but only if, he/she finds and
determines all of the following, based on the reports, investigations, and
inspections conducted and on any other credible information on which it is
reasonable for the City to rely:
         a.   All information and documents required by subsection C of this
section for issuance of a massage establishment license have been properly
provided and the material statements made in the application are true and
correct.
         b.   All persons identified in the application pursuant to subsection
4.302C3 of this article and subsection C of this section are at least eighteen
(18) years of age.
         c.   No person identified in the application pursuant to subsection
4.302C3 of this article and subsection C of this section has been convicted of,
or pleaded nolo contendere to, any specified criminal act within five (5) years
immediately preceding the date of the application.
         d.   No person identified in the application pursuant to subsection
4.302C3 of this article and subsection C of this section has been convicted of,
or pleaded nolo contendere to, any violation of a provision of this chapter
within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the application.
         e.   No person identified in the application pursuant to subsection
4.302C3 of this article and subsection C of this section is residing with, or
married to, a person: 1) who has been denied a massage establishment license
within twelve (12) months immediately preceding the date of the application, 2)
whose massage establishment license has been revoked within twelve (12) months
immediately preceding the date of the application, or 3) whose massage
establishment license is under suspension at the time of application.
         f.   No massage establishment license shall be issued to any person
for premises for which a liquor license or adult establishment license has been
issued as provided in this Code.
      2.   Denial: If the Development Administrator determines that the
applicant has not met any one or more of the conditions set forth in subsection
D1 of this section, then the Development Administrator shall deny issuance of
the massage establishment license and shall give the applicant a written
notification and explanation of such denial.
   E.   General Regulations:
      1.   Except for approved massage schools, no massage establishment
licensee shall employ as a massage therapist any person unless said person has
obtained and has in effect a massage therapist permit issued pursuant to State
law.
      2.   Massage establishment employees must wear clean, nontransparent
outer garments covering the sexual and genital areas which shall include the
genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or perineum of any person or the vulva or
breasts of a female.
      3.   The sexual or genital areas of massage establishment patrons must be
covered by towels, cloths or undergarments when in the presence of a massage
establishment employee.
      4.   No massage establishment employee or any other person at any massage
establishment, shall knowingly place his or her hand upon, or touch with any
part of his or her body, with intent to fondle in any manner, a sexual or
genital area of any other person.
      5.   No massage establishment employee or any other person at any massage
establishment, shall perform, offer or agree to perform any act which would
require the touching of the patron's genital or sexual area.
      6.   No massage establishment employee or any other person at any massage
establishment, shall administer a massage to any part of a patron's body which
exhibits any skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation or skin eruption,
unless a physician duly licensed by the State determines that such persons may
be safely massaged, prescribing the conditions thereof.
      7.   No massage establishment employee or any other person at any massage
establishment shall perform or conduct any specified sexual activity with or
for any patron or any other employee or any other person. No massage
establishment patron or any other person at any massage establishment shall
perform or conduct any specified sexual activity with or for any employee,
patron or any other person.
      8.   At all times during the hours of operation of a licensed massage
establishment there shall be present a manager of the licensed massage
establishment licensee who shall be not less than eighteen (18) years of age.
      9.   No massage establishment licensee shall permit any person to remain
in or upon massage establishment licensed premises who commits any specified
criminal act.
      10.   No alcoholic liquor shall be delivered, received, sold, purchased,
provided or consumed by any massage establishment employee at any massage
establishment, unless under the restrictions of and after the issuance of a
Class T liquor license in accordance with chapter 5 of this Code.
      11.   No animals, except only for seeing eye dogs to assist the blind,
shall be permitted at any time at or in any licensed massage establishment.
      12.   All restrooms in a licensed massage establishment shall be equipped
with standard toilets, sinks, and other traditional lavatory facilities.
      13.   No massage patron shall be permitted at any time to enter into any
of the nonpublic portions of any licensed massage establishment, including
specifically, but without limitation, any storage areas or dressing or other
rooms provided for the benefit of massage establishment employees. This
subsection shall not apply to persons delivering goods and materials, food and
beverages, or performing maintenance or repairs to the licensed premises;
provided, however, that any such persons shall remain in such nonpublic areas
only for the purposes and to the extent and time necessary to perform their job
duties.
      14.   No portion of a licensed massage establishment shall be designed,
modified, equipped or used as a residence or for residential purposes. No
person shall reside, board or otherwise use a licensed massage establishment as
a residence. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.310. Transporters.
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for a person located within the
City to conduct the activities of a transporter, including the dispatching of
transporter vehicles and the parking or storage of transporter vehicles on the
premises unless such person has applied for and obtained a license in
accordance with this chapter.
   B.   Application: In addition to the application requirements in section
4.204 of this chapter and subsection
4.302C of this article, the applicant must identify the owner of the vehicles
to be used to provide transporter activities, provide the applicable DOT number
(s), relevant contact information for any contractors used in connection with
the transporter activities and an affidavit certifying that each transporter
vehicle has the required vehicle and insurance requirements in subsections C, D
and E of this section. Every transporter vehicle stored on the premises shall
be listed, including the name of the owner, type of vehicle and license plate
number, and submitted with the application. Additional information may be
required by the Development Administrator.
   C.   Driver Requirements: No person shall drive a transport vehicle without
a current driver's license.
   D.   Vehicle Requirements:
      1.   Every transporter vehicle that is used in connection with the
business operations, whether for storage, loading or parking, shall be fully
located on the licensed premises within designated loading or parking areas.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any transporter vehicle to stop, load, or
park in drive aisles or within the right-of-way.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any transporter vehicle to impact
operations of adjacent businesses, establishments or properties.
      4.   Every transporter vehicle used in connection with the business
operations shall display the applicable DOT number and owner or operator name.
      5.   It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure any contracted
transporters comply with these regulations.
   E.   Insurance Requirements:
      1.   Every transporter shall carry public liability and property damage
insurance and workers' compensation insurance for his employees with solvent
and responsible insurers approved by the City, authorized to transact such
insurance business in the State of Illinois and qualified under the laws of the
State of Illinois to assume the risk for the amounts hereinafter set forth, to
secure payment of any loss or damage resulting from any occurrence arising out
of or caused by the operations or use of any of the transport vehicles.
      2.   Every vehicle used in the transporter's business shall have a
minimum public liability insurance policy that insures for the minimums as
specified in the master fee schedule.
   F.   Receiving Stolen Property Prohibited: No transporter shall receive,
move or conceal any goods or articles which he knows or has reason to suspect
are stolen. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 4.311. Commercial Land Leasing.
   A.   License Required: No person shall conduct commercial land leasing prior
to obtaining a business license in the manner provided in section
4.302 of this article.
   B.   Application: A completed business license application for commercial
land leasing must be submitted on a form prescribed by the Development
Administrator and shall minimally include:
      1.   Address Of Land: The address and legal description of the tract of
land upon which commercial land leasing occurs, either in whole or in part.
      2.   Property Owner: Name and contact information of the property owner
and property manager.
      3.   Applicant: Name and contact information of applicant.
      4.   Site Plan: Site plan of the premises indicating the name of the
tenant for each leased space. The site plan shall also identify the expiration
of the lease for each tenant.
      5.   Leased Area: Area of property to be leased (in square feet).
      6.   Activities: A statement describing the activities to be conducted on
the premises.
      7.   Key Holders: The names, addresses and phone numbers of no less than
three (3) key holders (emergency contacts) who have authorized and immediate
access to the premises and the registries required in subsections D and E9 of
this section.
      8.   Mobile Home Additional Application Requirements:
         a.   The proposed and existing facilities in the mobile home park for
water supply, sewage, garbage and waste disposal, fire protection and for a
sanitary community building, if required, which will include a description of
toilets, urinals, sinks, washbasins, slop sinks, showers and drains and the
proposed alterations therein and the maintenance thereof.
         b.   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon
which the mobile home park is located.
      9.   Additional Information: Any additional information as required by
the Development Administrator.
   C.   General Regulations:
      1.   Every property used as commercial land leasing shall be in the
charge of a responsible attendant or caretaker whose duty it shall be to
maintain the premises, its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly and
sanitary condition, and be answerable, with the licensee, for any violation of
the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   No vehicles or trailers shall be so located that the drainage of the
subject area will endanger any water supply. All property used as commercial
land leasing shall be well drained. No wastewater shall be deposited on the
surface of the ground.
      3.   The management of every property used for commercial land leasing
shall assume full responsibility for maintaining in good repair and condition
all sanitary and safety appliances on the premises, and shall promptly bring
such action as is necessary to prosecute or eject from the premises any person
or persons who wilfully or maliciously damages such appliances or any person or
persons who fail to comply with the regulations of this chapter, other
ordinances of the City and/or the Statutes of the State of Illinois.
   D.   Commercial Parking Lots: Upon issuance of a business license, licensees
shall maintain on site an accurate register of all lessees. For each such
lessee, the register shall include the following information:
      1.   Legal name, either business or individual.
      2.   Any and all aliases.
      3.   Contact information, including, but not limited to, home and mobile
phone number and home address.
      4.   Driver's license information.
      5.   List and location of hazardous material, as defined in the U.S.
Department of Transportation regulations (49 CFR section 173.1 et seq.),
located on the premises in sufficient quantity so as to pose an imminent threat
to the health and safety of emergency responders in the event of a fire or
other disaster. A hazardous material shall include, but is not limited to:
         a.   Explosives (49 CFR section 173.50).
         b.   Compressed gases (49 CFR section 173.115).
         c.   Flammable liquids (49 CFR section 173.120).
         d.   Flammable solids (49 CFR section 173.124).
         e.   Oxidizers and organic peroxides (49 CFR section 173.127).
         f.   Poisonous agents (49 CFR section 173.132).
         g.   Radioactive material (49 CFR section 173.403).
         h.   Corrosive material (49 CFR section 173.136).
         i.   Miscellaneous (49 CFR section 173.140).
      6.   The register shall be maintained for all current tenants and all
tenants at any time during the preceding thirty six (36) months. The licensee
shall make the register available for inspection by the City immediately upon
demand at all reasonable times, to check compliance with this section or for
any other legitimate purpose.
   E.   Mobile Home Park Regulations:
      1.   Dependent mobile homes are prohibited.
      2.   At least one City water supply outlet shall be provided within three
hundred feet (300') of every dependent mobile home site. Each independent
mobile home site shall be provided with a City water tap at least four inches
(4") above the ground.
      3.   All sewage and other water carried wastes shall be deposited into
the City's sewerage system.
         a.   When a water carriage system of sewage is used, each mobile home
site shall be provided with a sewer connection for the combined liquid waste
outlet or outlets of each mobile home.
         b.   The owner or operator of the mobile home park shall provide an
approved type of water and odor tight connection from the mobile home water
drainage to the sewer connection, and shall make such connection and keep all
occupied mobile homes connected to said sewer while located in a mobile home
park.
         c.   Sewer connections in unoccupied mobile home sites shall be so
closed that they will emit no odors or cause a breeding place for flies.
         d.   No water or waste shall be allowed to fall on the ground from the
mobile home.
      4.   A sufficient number of adequate flyproof and watertight containers
shall be supplied for the storage of garbage except where an adequate
incinerator is provided.
         a.   Garbage containers shall be emptied at least every three (3) days
and shall not be filled to overflowing, or allowed to become foul smelling or a
breeding place for flies.
         b.   Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner which
creates neither a nuisance nor a menace to health and which is approved by the
health inspector.
         c.   Adequate insect and rodent control measures shall be employed.
All buildings shall be fly and rodent proof and rodent harborages shall not be
permitted to exist in the park.
      5.   Electrical service for each individual mobile home site shall be
provided and the installation shall be in compliance with all State and local
Electrical Codes and ordinances.
      6.   Fire extinguishers of a type approved by the Development
Administrator for use at mobile home parks shall be placed at locations within
one hundred feet (100') of each individual mobile home site. Each fire
extinguisher shall be periodically examined and kept at all times in a
condition for use.
      7.   Temporary porches, canvas roofed canopies and skirts shall be
permitted for mobile homes, and auxiliary rooms may also be authorized by the
Development Administrator, if constructed of fire resistant materials and of
such specifications as shall be necessary to meet the regulations of the
Building Code.
      8.   All streets and driveways in every mobile home park must be
maintained in a passable and reasonably dustproof condition at all times.
      9.   Each mobile home park shall be provided with a custodian's office
where each mobile home entering such park shall be assigned to a lot location,
given a copy of the mobile home park rules and registered according to the
prescribed form.
         a.   Said registrations shall include the name and address of every
occupant of said mobile home; the license number of all units; the state
issuing such licenses; and a statement indicating the exact location at which
such mobile home was last parked, including the state, city, town or village
where such parking occurred.
         b.   The licensee shall keep a registry of all children of school age
occupying mobile homes in the park.
         c.   The above mentioned register shall be signed by an occupant of
the mobile home.
         d.   Any person furnishing misinformation for purposes of registration
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable under the general
statutes for such offense.
         e.   The registration records shall be neatly and securely maintained,
and no registration records shall be destroyed until six (6) years have elapsed
following the date of registration.
         f.   The licensee shall make the register available for inspection by
the City immediately upon demand at all reasonable times, to check compliance
with this section or for any other legitimate purpose.
   F.   Inspections: Inspections shall be conducted in accordance with
subsection 4.302D of this article. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
ARTICLE IV
TEMPORARY BUSINESS LICENSES
SECTION:
4.401. Temporary Business License
4.402. Commercial Short Term Sales
4.403. Circuses And Carnivals
Sec. 4.401. Temporary Business License.
   A.   Temporary Business License Required: It shall be unlawful to conduct
any commercial activity as specified herein or to solicit for any commercial
purpose in or upon any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place or
on any private property within the City without having first secured a
temporary business license therefor as provided in this article.
   B.   Application Requirements: A completed application with all information
as required by the Development Administrator for a temporary business license
shall be submitted at least ten (10) business days before the intended
commencement date of the activity, unless specified otherwise.
   C.   Schedule Of Temporary License Fees: All activities regulated by this
article shall be assessed a fee as specified in the master fee schedule.
   D.   Duration And Number:
      1.   No temporary business license shall be issued for a period in excess
of thirty (30) consecutive days, unless specified otherwise. No person shall be
issued more than two (2) such licenses in one calendar year.
      2.   The maximum number of temporary business licenses issued in the City
in any calendar year shall not exceed ten (10).
   E.   Application: In addition to the information required by the Development
Administrator, the application shall state the purpose for which the business
is being conducted, the residential and business telephone number of the
applicant and the inclusive dates on which permission to conduct the business
is being requested. A copy of the applicant's lease or license therefor,
evidencing the owner's permission to conduct the business or solicitation shall
accompany the application.
   F.   Payment Of Cash Bond: No temporary business license shall be issued
without the applicant having first deposited with the Development Administrator
a cash bond in the amount specified in the master fee schedule. Such bond shall
be refunded to the licensee after the expiration of the license, provided that
all refuse and trade fixtures, merchandise, and other property brought on the
premises for the purposes of the business or solicitation have been removed
and/or properly disposed of and that the premises are in a clean and orderly
condition.
   G.   Exemptions:
      1.   No temporary business license as provided for herein shall be
required for sales of natural plant forms for holiday ornamental purposes, such
as Halloween pumpkins, gourds, or cornstalks or Christmas trees, wreaths, or
sprays, by any person or business having a commercial occupancy permit issued
pursuant to article II of this chapter.
      2.   The conduct of any business or solicitation by a religious
corporation or by a non-profit organization that is exempt from Federal
taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and duly
registered with the Illinois Attorney General pursuant to the Illinois
Charitable Trust Act shall be exempt from licensing under this article.
   H.   Summary Suspension: The City Manager or designee shall have the right,
without any liability to the City of Wood Dale, to summarily suspend without
hearing or notice any temporary business license issued, upon a determination
that the applicant has provided false or misleading information in the
application; is in violation of any Federal, State, or local law or any
ordinance or resolution of the City of Wood Dale; or is indebted to the City of
Wood Dale for any fee, cost, or fine. The order of summary suspension shall be
immediately served upon the licensee, who may request in writing a hearing on
such before the City Manager, which shall be conducted as soon after the City
Manager's receipt of the request as is reasonably practicable. Either pursuant
to such hearing, or on his own initiative upon being furnished with
satisfactory evidence, the City Manager shall issue a written order rescinding
the suspension if he determines that all acts, conditions, or omissions
occasioning such suspension have ceased or have been removed or supplied. He
may impose in such order any controls, restrictions, or provisions he deems
appropriate to prevent the reoccurrence of such acts, conditions, or omissions.
   I.   Suspension Or Revocation: Any license issued under the terms of this
article may be immediately suspended or revoked by the City Manager whenever it
shall appear to the City Manager that the carnival, circus, parade, side show
and/or concession is conducted, maintained, done or performed contrary to the
regulations and applicable ordinance of the City or Statute of the State of
Illinois or otherwise endangers the public health or safety.
   J.   Penalty: In the event that a temporary commercial activity is commenced
without having first been issued a temporary business license, the fees
specified in the master fee schedule shall apply in addition to enforcement
action. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 4.402. Commercial Short Term Sales.
   A.   Seasonal Sales: Existing businesses that have obtained a COC pursuant
to article II of this chapter shall obtain a temporary business license for any
seasonal sales in accordance with the following regulations:
      1.   Term: Seasonal sales shall not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days
in a calendar year.
      2.   Site Plan: In addition to the application regulations in section
4.204 of this chapter, a site plan shall be required that depicts the location
of the seasonal sales and demonstrates compliance with subsection
17.502A3d of this Code.
   B.   Outdoor Cafes: Existing businesses that have obtained a COC pursuant to
article II of this chapter shall obtain a temporary business license in order
to operate an outdoor cafe in accordance with the following regulations:
      1.   Term: Outdoor cafes are valid from April 15 through November 15 and
must be renewed annually.
      2.   Site Plan: In addition to the application regulations in section
4.204 of this chapter, a site plan shall be required that depicts the location
of the seasonal sales and demonstrates compliance with subsections
17.502A7 and A10 of this Code. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.403. Circuses And Carnivals.
   A.   License Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, set up, maintain,
exhibit, conduct or carry on in the City any carnival or circus unless a
license to do so has been issued as hereinafter provided and is in full force
and effect.
      2.   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to exempt applicants for
carnival or circus licenses from the necessity of applying for and obtaining
other necessary licenses and permits as provided in this Code.
   B.   Application Procedure: Applications for a permit shall be made at least
sixty (60) days prior to the opening date requested and provide the following:
      1.   The name and address of the proprietor and the person to be in
immediate charge of each place of amusement, entertainment, mechanical riding
devices, side show and/or concession.
      2.   The location at which it is proposed to conduct the carnival or
circus.
      3.   The layout plan establishing where each ride, trailer, booth and/or
tent is to be located along with a detailed electrical layout. Said layout plan
to be approved by the Chief of Police, Fire Chief, Development Administrator
and the property owner, before any license or permit provided for hereunder is
issued.
      4.   A request for permits for each and every mechanical amusement riding
device, which permit application shall be accompanied by:
         a.   A letter from the organization sponsoring the carnival, a letter
from the owners of the property where the rides are to be located and a
description of the toilet facilities; also a street permit when a mechanical
amusement riding device is to be located upon a public way.
         b.   A copy of the permit issued by the Illinois Department of Labor
for the proposed amusement rides or attractions.
         c.   A certificate of public liability and property damage insurance
to protect the person operating a circus or carnival, naming the City as co-
insured, from claims for personal injury and property damage which may arise as
a result of the operation of the circus or carnival, which insurance
certificates shall be filed with the Finance Director of the City. The
insurance policies shall provide coverage in the amounts as specified in the
master fee schedule and maintained for the duration of the circus or carnival
by the person operating said circus or carnival.
      5.   Any additional information as required by the Development
Administrator.
      6.   No applicant shall request the carnival or circus license more than
twelve (12) months in advance of any such carnival or circus, nor shall any
such applicant have more than one such application pending with the City at any
given time.
      7.   No more than three (3) permits shall be issued per year for the
operation of a circus or carnival.
   C.   Parades: Any street parade conducted in conjunction with a circus or
carnival shall comply with the parade regulations of the City contained in this
Code. Furthermore, such application for such parade shall be accompanied by a
bond in an amount as specified in the master fee schedule to indemnify the City
for any loss, damage or liability included or caused by the conduct of such
parade.
   D.   General Regulations:
      1.   No general admission fee to carnival or circus grounds shall be
charged.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cheat, shortchange or
otherwise defraud any person attending or about to attend any carnival, circus,
side show, performance or concession.
      3.   No carnival, circus and/or side show shall operate between eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of the following morning.
      4.   The area around and between tents, facilities and equipment of any
carnival shall be well lighted at all times during the operation of such
amusement activity or any part thereof. An emergency lighting system approved
by the Development Administrator to provide adequate lighting for orderly
evacuation in event of disaster or emergency shall be provided by the licensee.
      5.   Any person granted a carnival or circus license hereunder shall be
responsible for keeping the grounds, area or parcel of land used for the
carnival or circus, including parking area, free and clear of all rubbish,
waste matter and debris during the time such carnivals or circuses shall be
carried on or conducted.
      6.   Every carnival and circus license and every permit for a mechanical
amusement riding device shall be for a term certain, but not to exceed ten (10)
days. A renewal of every carnival and circus license and every permit for
mechanical amusement riding device may be made every ten (10) days, provided
that the appropriate fees are paid for such new permit.
   E.   Inspections:
      1.   As a condition of the license, the owner, licensee, amusement ride/
carnival operator or manager of a carnival shall allow the Development
Administrator, Chief of Police, DuPage County Health Inspector, and Fire Chief,
or their respective duly authorized representatives, access to the premises,
grounds, rides, booths, food stands, attractions, concessions and equipment
used for or in connection with the operation of the circus or carnival at any
reasonable time in order for said person to investigate and approve the
location or the premises where the circus or carnival will take place, and to
determine whether the circus or carnival or any part thereof, or all workers
are in compliance with this article and all applicable State laws and
regulations.
      2.   If the circus or carnival or any part thereof, including its
parades, rides, games, attractions, concessions, or equipment is not approved,
or if the carnival or any of its carnival workers are determined to be not in
compliance with this article or any applicable State law or regulation, the
Development Administrator, Chief of Police, DuPage County Health Inspector, or
Fire Chief, or their respective duly authorized representatives, may order the
circus or carnival or the unapproved part thereof closed to the public until
any required corrective action is taken and approval is given.
      3.   The licensee shall be responsible for any inspection fees and costs
which are incurred as a result of inspections carried on by entities other than
the City. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE V
ACTIVITY REGISTRATIONS
SECTION:
4.501. General Registration Requirements
4.502. Scavengers
4.503. Mobile Food Vendors
4.504. Solicitors And Canvassers
4.505. Contractors
4.506. Auctioneers
4.507. Raffles
4.508. Home-Based Businesses
4.509. Residential Short-Term Sales
Sec. 4.501. General Registration Requirements.
   A.   Registration Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct
the specific commercial and non-profit activities as enumerated below without
having first secured a registration.
   B.   Schedule Of Registration Fees: All activities regulated by this article
shall be assessed a fee as specified in the master fee schedule.
   C.   Registration Approval: The Development Administrator shall not approve
a registration for the activities listed in this article until receipt of a
completed application, required documentation, payment in full for all fees,
when required, and liens imposed by the City and all noted violations of this
chapter and other applicable ordinances have been remedied, where applicable.
   D.   Penalty: In the event that a registration is not approved prior to
conducting the activities regulated by this article, the penalty fee as
specified in the master fee schedule shall apply in addition to any enforcement
action. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 4.502. Scavengers.
   A.   Registration Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
the business of scavenger or to operate a scavenger service or collect or
dispose of building debris without first registering with the City.
   B.   Application: A completed application shall include a performance bond
and proof of insurance in accordance with the following:
      1.   Bond: The registrant shall furnish the City a surety bond in the
amount as specified in the master fee schedule, conditioned upon the registrant
continuing to operate the business of scavenger in accordance with law and this
Code. The City shall be named as the beneficiary. In lieu of such bond, the
applicant may deposit cash in the sum indicated in the master fee schedule with
the Finance Director of the City; such deposit to be returned without interest
upon the expiration of the registration, provided the registrant has operated
the business of scavenger in accordance with law and this Code.
      2.   Insurance: Each scavenger shall carry, until the expiration of the
approved registration, public liability and property damage insurance as shall
protect the scavenger from claims for personal injury, including death, and
property damage which may arise while performing scavenger services. The
insurance policies shall provide coverage as specified in the master fee
schedule. At the time of application, each applicant shall file with the City a
certificate of insurance naming the City as an additional insured.
   C.   Term Of Registration: Each scavenger registration shall be valid for a
maximum period of one year and shall terminate December 31 of the year
following the year for which such registration was approved by the City.
   D.   Number Of Authorized Registrations: The City shall not approve
scavenger registrations in numbers exceeding the maximum number listed below:
      1.   City's contract for scavenger service registration, as the exclusive
refuse and recycling contractor of the City and for collection from and service
to residential buildings containing not more than two (2) dwelling units: One.
      2.   Other scavenger service registrations for collection from premises
other than residential buildings containing not more than two (2) dwelling
units: Unlimited.
   E.   Vehicle Requirements: No vehicle shall be used for the transportation
of garbage, ashes or refuse unless it is watertight and equipped with covers
for that portion used for such purpose. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 4.503. Mobile Food Vendors.
   A.   Registration Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
or do business as a mobile food vendor within the corporate limits of the City
without having registered with the City.
   B.   Application Requirements:
      1.   All registrations as a mobile food vendor shall state the kind of
food intended to be sold or handled.
      2.   A background investigation pursuant to subsection
4.302C3 of this chapter is required for all driver(s) and operator(s) of any
mobile food vendor that sells primarily to minors.
      3.   An affidavit certifying that all drivers and vehicles used in the
operation as a mobile food vendor meets all driver, vehicle and insurance
requirements.
   C.   Sanitary Conditions:
      1.   Premises: All premises used for the sale or storage of food or drink
intended for human consumption shall be kept:
         a.   In a clean and sanitary condition.
         b.   Free from flies, vermin and rodents.
         c.   Free of any accumulation of refuse or decaying matter.
      2.   Employees:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or is a
carrier of any infectious or contagious disease to handle or be engaged in the
care or preparation of any food or drink intended for sale to humans or to
permit any such person to be employed in or about any premises where such food
or drink is stored, prepared or sold, or to deliver such food.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in handling or coming
in contact with food or drink intended for sale for human consumption to fail
to keep his person and clothing clean.
   D.   Noise Control: It shall be unlawful for any mobile food vendor using a
vehicle to:
      1.   Use any outcry, sound, speaker or amplifier, or any instrument or
device:
         a.   Which can be heard for a distance greater than three hundred feet
(300');
         b.   When passing a hospital;
         c.   When passing a church or other place of worship during the hours
when services are being held;
         d.   When the vehicle he is using is stopped for the purpose of making
a sale;
         e.   Before the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on weekdays and ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. on Sundays or after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on any day.
      2.   Vend within five hundred feet (500') of any school during the school
year.
   E.   Traffic Regulations: It shall be unlawful for any mobile food vendor
to:
      1.   Exceed a speed of twelve (12) miles per hour when cruising
neighborhoods seeking sales or when attempting to make a sale.
      2.   Make more than two (2) stops in any one block to make any sale.
      3.   Stop anywhere within twenty five feet (25') of an intersection when
making a sale or attempting to make a sale.
      4.   Double park, or park in any other manner contrary to law, while
attempting a sale or while making a sale.
      5.   Make a U-turn on a block.
      6.   Drive his vehicle backwards to make or attempt any sale.
      7.   Sell to any person who is standing on the street.
      8.   Permit any person to hang on the vehicle, or permit any person to
ride in or on the vehicle except bona fide assistants.
      9.   Remain standing or stopped at any place for a period of time
exceeding five (5) minutes without completing a sale or without being parked in
an approved location.
      10.   Sell or attempt to sell along any particular route more than one
time during a twenty four (24) hour period.
   F.   Unwholesome, Adulterated Food Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to offer for sale, or keep for the purpose of
selling or offering for sale, any food which is spoiled or tainted or is
unwholesome and unfit for human consumption. All tainted and unwholesome food
intended for human consumption may be condemned by the DuPage County Board of
Health or the Chief of Police in his ex officio capacity as health inspector
and shall thereupon be seized and destroyed by any policeman.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale or keep for such
purpose, any food or drink intended for human consumption which has been
adulterated by any harmful material or which is not in compliance with law.
      3.   All food delivery vehicles shall be kept in a clean, sanitary
condition and shall be thoroughly cleaned each day they are so used.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to permit stale food, decaying matter or any
other waste material or product to accumulate in or on any such vehicle while
it is so used.
      5.   If unwrapped foodstuffs are transported in any such vehicle, such
goods shall be carried in a portion or compartment of the vehicle which is
screened and protected against dust and insects.
   G.   Application Of Provisions: No registration fee shall be required for
any vehicle that is used to deliver foodstuffs from any locally licensed and
inspected establishment, but all other provisions of this section shall be
complied with.
   H.   Inspections: The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to make all
necessary inspections at reasonable hours as he deems necessary to enforce the
provisions of this section. (Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 4.504. Solicitors And Canvassers.
   A.   City Policy On Soliciting: It is hereby declared to be the policy of
the City that the occupant(s) of the buildings in this City shall make the
determination of whether solicitors shall be or shall not be invited to their
respective buildings. If no determination is made as is provided in subsection
F of this section, registration is not required.
   B.   Registration Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
the business of soliciting or canvassing upon premises within the corporate
limits of the City wherein an owner or occupant has posted a sign at the
principal entrance inviting therein only solicitors who have registered with
the City Clerk's Office without such solicitor first registering with the City
in the manner provided in this section.
   C.   Application: The application for registration to solicit or canvass
upon premises within the City, wherein a registration is required by this
section, shall truthfully include the information requested on the application,
as follows:
      1.   Two (2) forms of identification, one being a valid government issued
picture ID giving the name and address of present place of residence;
      2.   Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years if
other than the present address;
      3.   Age of applicant;
      4.   Physical description of the applicant;
      5.   Name and address of the person by whom the applicant is employed or
represents and the length of time of such employment or representation;
      6.   Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years if
other than the present employer;
      7.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
      8.   Period of time for which the solicitor registration is applied;
      9.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for solicitor registration under this section, if any;
      10.   If a solicitor registration approved for the applicant under this
section has ever been revoked or denied;
      11.   If the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of this section, or the ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting;
      12.   If the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the State of Illinois or any other state or Federal
law of the United States; and
      13.   Such additional information as the Chief of Police or the City
Clerk's Office may deem necessary to process the application.
All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in connection
therewith shall be under oath. The City may require an applicant to submit to
fingerprinting in accordance with subsection
4.302C3 of this chapter if their identity is in question and to the
photographing of his person by City personnel in connection with the
application for the solicitor registration.
   D.   Restrictions On Approval Of Solicitor Registration: No solicitor
registration shall be approved for any person who has been convicted of the
commission of a felony under the laws of the State of Illinois or any other
state or Federal law of the United States within five (5) years of the date of
the application, nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this section, nor to any person whose temporary solicitor
registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked as herein provided,
nor to any person convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude within the
past five (5) years.
The Chief of Police or designee shall review the application and if deemed
fully compliant, shall approve the solicitor registration, at which time the
City Clerk's Office will notify the applicant in writing. No person shall be
issued more than two (2) such permits in one calendar year. In addition to the
fee specified in the master fee schedule, a cash bond as specified in the
master fee schedule is also required as a deposit for the identification badge.
Upon returning the badge, the City shall refund the cash bond. No refund of fee
shall be given at any time.
   E.   Approval Or Denial Of Solicitor Registration:
      1.   Approval; Deposit: When the applicant is found to be fully
qualified, the solicitor registration shall be approved forthwith and shall
state the expiration date thereof, which shall not exceed thirty (30) days from
the date of issuance.
      2.   Denial: The solicitor registration shall be denied if, after
consideration of the application for registered solicitor and all information
obtained relative thereto, the Chief of Police finds that the applicant does
not possess the qualifications for approval of such solicitor registration as
herein required and that the approval of the solicitor registration for the
applicant would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this section.
Endorsement shall be made by the Chief of Police or designee upon the
application of the denial of the application.
   F.   Notice Regulating Soliciting: Every owner or occupant desiring to
secure the protection intended to be provided by the regulations pertaining to
soliciting contained in this section shall give notice of the determination by
the owner or an occupant of giving invitation to solicitors or the refusal of
invitation to solicitors to any building in the following means: a weatherproof
card, no larger than three inches by four inches (3" x 4") in size, shall be
exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the building indicating the
determination by the owner or an occupant containing the applicable words, as
follows:
      "ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED WITH THE CITY OF WOOD DALE INVITED"
         or
      "NO SOLICITORS ALLOWED".
The letters shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") in height. For the purpose
of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Community Development
Department to persons requesting, at the cost thereof, and such card so
exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any solicitor of the
determination by the occupant of the building of the information contained
thereon.
   G.   Duty Of Solicitors: It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going
onto any premises in the City upon which a building, as herein defined, is
located, to first examine the notice provided for in subsection F of this
section, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states: "ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED WITH THE CITY OF WOOD
DALE INVITED", then the solicitor not possessing a valid solicitor registration
as herein provided shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
If the notice states "NO SOLICITORS ALLOWED", regardless whether or not
solicitor registration has been approved, the solicitor shall immediately and
peacefully leave the premises. Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any
building, whether invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from
the premises when requested to do so by the occupant.
It shall be the duty of any person engaging in soliciting in a residential area
within the City to wear in a conspicuous place on his outer garment the badge
issued to him/her by the City. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
business as a solicitor within the City without wearing and displaying such
badge.
Every solicitor shall, prior to engaging in activity, regulated under this
section, be issued an identification badge bearing the words "Temporary
Solicitors Permit" or words of similar impact, together with a serial number.
Every solicitor on completing their activity as such solicitor in the City,
shall surrender the badge to the authorized City personnel, not later than four
o'clock (4:00) P.M. on or before the thirty (30) day expiration date, and upon
doing so, the City shall refund the cash bond. If the thirty (30) day
expiration date were to fall on a weekend solicitor will return badge on the
next business day. If the badge is not returned by four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on
or before the thirty (30) day expiration date, the bond shall be forfeited. In
case any such badge is lost, stolen or mutilated, a report of such fact must be
made to the Police Chief or his designee and bond forfeited. Failure to file a
loss or theft report may be cause to deny future registration.
   H.   Uninvited Soliciting Prohibited: It is hereby declared to be unlawful
and shall constitute a nuisance and a violation of this section for any person
to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or create
any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of
such building, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant
thereof and engage in soliciting, as herein defined, in defiance of the notice
exhibited at the building given in accordance with the provisions of subsection
F of this section.
   I.   Time Limit On Soliciting: It is hereby declared to be unlawful and
shall constitute a nuisance and a violation of this section for any person,
whether registered under this section or not, to go upon any premises and ring
the doorbell upon or near any door of a building located thereon, or rap or
knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated to
attract the attention of the occupant of such building, for the purposes of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting, as
herein defined, prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. during the months of October through March, or prior to nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. or after eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. during the months of April through
September or at any time on a Sunday or on a State or national holiday.
   J.   Revocation Of Solicitor Registration: Any solicitor registration
approved hereunder shall be revoked by the City Manager if the applicant of the
solicitor registration is convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of
this section, or has made a false material statement in the application, or
otherwise becomes disqualified for the approval of a solicitor registration
under the terms of this section. Immediately upon such revocation, written
notice thereof shall be given to the holder of the solicitor registration in
person or by certified U.S. mail addressed to his or her residence address set
forth in the application. Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the
solicitor registration shall become null and void and shall be surrendered to
the City.
   K.   Records Kept: The City shall cause to be kept in the City Clerk's
Office an accurate record of every application received and acted upon,
together with all other information and data pertaining thereto, on all
solicitor registrations approved under the provisions of this section and of
the denial of applications. Applications for solicitor registrations shall be
numbered in consecutive order as filed, and every approved solicitor
registration and any renewal thereof shall be identified with the duplicate
number of the application upon which it was issued.
   L.   Exemption: A person age seventeen (17) and under, who is participating
in fundraising programs for, or sponsored by a public or private elementary or
high school or bona fide children's organization including, without limitation,
Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, youth sports teams, is not required to register as a
solicitor. All persons who qualify under this exemption shall be referred to as
exempt solicitors. Also exempt from registering as a solicitor are all persons
or groups who are not soliciting funds, and those groups whose primary purpose
is not the solicitation of funds, for any purpose in their canvassing,
political campaigning, surveying, proselytizing, or door-to-door advocacy, and
are not attempting to sell or promote any goods or services. All such persons
are not solicitors and are not required to register. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 4.505. Contractors.
   A.   Registration Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
the business of a general contractor, HVAC, plumbing, roofing, electrician and/
or other building trades contractor within the City of Wood Dale unless or
until the contractor registers with the City and pays the required registration
fee. This registration requirement does not exempt or waive any other
applications or fees required by this chapter or this Code. (Ord. O-18-041, 12-
20-2018)
   B.   Application: Registration shall occur annually and on the forms
provided by the Development Administrator requiring: (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
      1.   Name of the registrant contractor and the owner of the company; and
      2.   Business address of the registrant contractor; and (Ord. O-18-041,
12-20-2018)
      3.   Certificate of insurance with the City of Wood Dale as certificate
holder in amounts as specified in the master fee schedule; and
      4.   Submittal of copies of all required trade licenses and
registrations.
   C.   Bonds: Contractors performing water, sewer and demolition work shall
execute and maintain a bond in an amount as specified in the master fee
schedule filed with and payable to the City conditioned that the contractor
shall well and faithfully observe all the ordinances and other regulations of
the City and ensure against damage to City or private property.
   D.   Expiration Of Registration: A contractor's registration shall expire
after one year from the date of acceptance of the registration by the Community
Development Department. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 4.506. Auctioneers.
   A.   Registration Required: No personal property (goods, wares or
merchandise) shall be sold at auction in the City except in compliance with the
provisions of this section. It shall be unlawful to sell or cause or permit to
be sold, at auction, any personal property (goods, wares or merchandise) in the
City unless such sale is conducted by an individual who has registered as an
auctioneer.
   B.   Bond: Every registrant as an auctioneer shall file with the Development
Administrator a surety performance bond running to the City in the amount as
specified in the master fee schedule with surety acceptable to and approved by
the City Attorney conditioned that the said applicant, if issued an
auctioneer's registration, will comply fully with all the provisions of the
ordinances of the City and the Statutes of the State of Illinois regulating and
concerning auctions and auctioneers, will render true and strict accounts of
all his sales to any person or persons employing him to make the same, will not
practice any fraud or deceit upon bidders or purchasers of property from him at
any auction sale or suffer or permit any person in his employ to practice any
such fraud or deceit, and will pay all damages which may be sustained by any
person by reason of any fraud, deceit, negligence or other wrongful act on the
part of the registrant, his agent or employees, in the conduct of any auction
or in the exercise of the calling of auctions. (A liability insurance policy
issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the State of
Illinois which conforms to the above requirements may be permitted by the City
Attorney, in his discretion, in lieu of a bond.)
   C.   Auctions Prohibited On Streets, Sidewalks And Public Property: It shall
be unlawful to conduct an auction sale of personal property (goods, wares or
merchandise) on any of the streets or sidewalks of the City.
   D.   Night Auctions Of Jewelry And Certain Other Activities Prohibited: It
shall be unlawful to offer for sale at auction or sell at auction any gold,
silver, plated ware, clocks, watches, diamonds or other precious or semi-
precious stones or any imitation thereof, glassware, chinaware or jewelry, or
any article purporting to be or represented as any of the above listed articles
between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
   E.   Articles Not Applicable To Judicial Sales: The provisions of this
section shall not be applicable to auction sales conducted by trustees or
referees in bankruptcy, executors, administrators, receivers or other public
officers acting under judicial process, nor to the sale of real property at
auction.
   F.   Inspections: Every article offered for sale at a public auction shall
be open to inspection of any person wishing to purchase it at some time before
making the bid or during the bidding.
   G.   Prohibited Conditions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to create or permit any disturbance or
disorderly conduct at any auction.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person selling goods at auction to make
any fraudulent or untrue statements concerning the goods or articles sold.
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 4.507. Raffles.
   A.   Registration Required: No person, firm, corporation or other entity
shall conduct raffles or chances without having first registered with the City
Clerk's Office pursuant to this section and the "Raffles Act".
   B.   Application:
      1.   Applications shall be made in writing to the City Clerk's Office at
least thirty (30) days prior to the first day intended for sale of the raffle
chances.
      2.   Applications for registration under this section must, at a minimum,
contain the following information:
         a.   Name of applicant.
         b.   Address.
         c.   Purpose of raffle.
         d.   Area within the City where the raffle is to be conducted.
         e.   Time period during which chances will be sold or issued.
         f.   Sworn statement attesting to not for profit character of the
prospective registrant organization, signed by the presiding officer and
secretary of the organization.
         g.   Date, time and location at which winning chances will be
determined.
         h.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise to be
awarded by a single raffle.
         i.   The maximum retail value of each prize or each specific type of
prize to be awarded by a registrant in a single raffle.
         j.   The maximum to be charged for each raffle chance and the number
of chances to be issued for each raffle.
         k.   The name(s) and address(es) of the operator of the raffle if not
an officer or member of the applicant organization.
   C.   Validity Of Registration: Each such registration shall be valid for one
raffle or for a specified number of raffles during a specified period not to
exceed one year, and may be suspended or revoked by the City in the event of
violation of the terms of this section or of any applicable State law.
   D.   Ineligibility For Registration: The following are ineligible for any
registration under this section:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection D1,
D2, or D3 of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or
in which such a person is active or employed;
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection D1, D2, or
D3 of this section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not;
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection D1, D2, or
D3 of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle
as defined in the "Raffles Act".
   E.   Not For Profit Organizations: Registrations shall be issued only to
bona fide non-profit establishments which operate without profit to their
members and which have been in existence continuously for a period of five (5)
years immediately before making application for a registration and which have
had during that entire five (5) year period a bona fide membership engaged in
carrying out their objectives, or to a non-profit fundraising organization that
the licensing authority determines is organized for the sole purpose of
providing financial assistance to an identified individual or group of
individuals suffering extreme financial hardships as the result of an illness,
disability, accident or disaster.
   F.   Limitations:
      1.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
registrant in a single raffle under this section and in accordance with
applicable State law is limited to two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000.00).
      2.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a registrant in a
single raffle is limited to two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00).
      3.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold is limited to one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      4.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold is limited to one hundred twenty (120) days.
      5.   Registrations issued shall be valid for one raffle or for a
specified number of raffles to be conducted during a specified period not to
exceed one year and may be suspended or revoked for any violation of the
"Raffles Act" or this section.
   G.   Approval: All applications for conducting a raffle shall be reviewed
and approved or denied within thirty (30) days of receipt by the City Clerk.
The Chief of Police is authorized to approve or deny any application for
conducting a raffle whose prizes have an aggregate retail value of twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) or less. Application for conducting a raffle
where the aggregate retail value of the prizes exceeds twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) shall be reviewed and approved or denied by the City
Council. The approval of an application for a raffle registration shall
constitute the registration for the conduct of the raffle applied for.
   H.   Conduct Of Raffles: The conducting of raffles is subject to the
following restrictions:
      1.   Proceeds: The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively
devoted to the lawful purpose of the organization permitted to conduct that
game.
      2.   Participation In Management: No person except a bona fide member of
the sponsoring organization may participate in the management or operation of
the raffle.
      3.   Remuneration: No person may receive any remuneration or profit for
participating in the management or operation of the raffle.
      4.   Premises: A registrant may rent a premises on which to determine the
winning chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also
registered under this chapter.
      5.   Locations: Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area
specified on the registration and winning chances may be determined only at
those locations specified on the registration.
      6.   Age Of Participants: No person under the age of eighteen (18) years
may participate in the conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age
of eighteen (18) years may be within the area where winning chances are being
determined only when accompanied by his/her parent or guardian.
      7.   Location For Determining Winning Chance(s): The location of the
premises on which to determine the winning chance or chances in a raffle shall
be restricted to a business district, commercial district or where a special
use permit has been granted for a school, church, government or similar
institution.
   I.   Records:
      1.   Each organization registered to conduct raffles and chances shall
keep such records and shall also keep records of its gross receipts, expenses
and net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which chances are
determined.
      2.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same non-profit
establishment pursuant to license therefor issued by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois, and shall be placed in a separate account. Each
organization shall have separate records of its raffles. The person who
accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation of
raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for other revenues of the
organization.
      3.   Each organization registered to conduct raffles shall report
promptly after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership, and to the City
of Wood Dale, its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and
the distribution of net proceeds itemized as required in this section.
      4.   Records required by this section shall be preserved three (3) years,
and organizations shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
   J.   Manager's Bond: All operations of and conduct of raffles shall be under
the supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the organization. The
manager of the raffle must be a bona fide member of the organization holding
the registration for such a raffle and may not receive any remuneration or
profit for participating in the management or operation of the raffle. For
raffles in which the aggregate retail value of the prizes to be awarded does
not exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), the raffle manager shall
be required to provide a bond to the City Clerk in the lesser amount of the
aggregate retail value of the prizes or as specified in the master fee schedule
conditioned upon the full and honest performance of his or her duties relating
to the raffle. For raffles in which the aggregate retail value of the prizes to
be awarded exceeds twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), the manager of
the raffle shall give a bond in the sum of the total retail value of such
prizes conditioned upon the full and honest performance of his or her duties
relating to the raffle.
Such bonds may be in the form of a fidelity bond issued in favor of the
organization applying for the raffle registration and underwritten by an
insurance or bonding company licensed to do business in Illinois, or cash or
cashier's check made payable to the organization. Terms of all fidelity bonds
shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the City not less than
thirty (30) days prior to any cancellation of such bond. Bonds in the form of
cash or cashier's check shall be returned to the manager after completion of
the raffle, upon his or her application therefor and the presentation of
receipts or other evidence satisfactory to the Chief of Police that all prizes
have been awarded to the winners.
For each registration, the City Council may, in its discretion, waive the
requirement of a bond upon application of the manager and his or her presenting
a copy of meeting minutes or a resolution of the applicant organization,
certified by its secretary, showing approval of such waiver by unanimous vote
of the members of the organization. The bond for a raffle whose prizes have an
aggregate retail value of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) or less may
be waived upon a majority vote of City Council members present at a meeting.
The bond for a raffle whose prizes have an aggregate retail value exceeding
twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) may be waived only upon a unanimous
vote of City Council members holding office. Any approval of the waiver of bond
shall be noted on the approved application for the raffle. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-
19-2018)
Sec. 4.508. Home-Based Businesses.
   A.   Registration Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
home-based business in the City without having a current registration for said
home-based business from the Community Development Department. At a minimum,
the registration shall consist of:
      1.   Location of the home-based business.
      2.   Description of the business activities conducted on the premises.
      3.   Floor plan of the residence depicting the area used for the home-
based business.
      4.   Affidavit certifying compliance with the regulations pursuant to
section
17.604 of this Code.
   B.   Term Of Registration: A home-based business registration shall expire
based on the geographic location of the home-based business, as published by
the Community Development Department. It is the responsibility of the
registrant to renew prior to the expiration each year. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-
2018)
Sec. 4.509. Residential Short-Term Sales.
   A.   Registration Required: It shall be unlawful for a person or business to
operate a residential short-term sale without first registering with the
Community Development Department by submitting a completed registration form as
prescribed by the Development Administrator.
   B.   Term Of Registration: Registrations are valid only for the stated date
and time on the registration form.
   C.   Duration And Number: The number of residential short-term sales shall
be in accordance with garage or yard sales at subsection 17.603A of this Code.
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE VI
COMMERCIAL OCCUPANCY CANNABIS DISPENSARY
SECTION:
4.601. Definitions
4.602. Applicability
4.603. Commissioner
4.604. Cannabis Dispensary Commercial Occupancy Certificate Required
4.605. Application Required
4.606. Cannabis Dispensary Commercial Occupancy Certificate Fees
4.607. Number Of Available Cannabis Dispensary Commercial Occupancy
Certificates
Sec. 4.601. Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
chapter shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
   A.   Cannabis: Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are identified
as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives
or subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction; however, “cannabis” does not include the mature
stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it),
fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination. “Cannabis” does not include industrial hemp as defined and
authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act. “Cannabis” also means cannabis
flower, concentrate, and cannabis-infused products.
   B.   Cannabis Dispensary: A facility operated by an organization or business
that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed cannabis business establishments
for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-infused products,
cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related supplies to purchasers or to qualified
registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1, et seq.), (“Act”) as it may be amended
from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder. (Ord. O-24-003, 2-
15-2024)
Sec. 4.602. Applicability.
The regulations set forth in this Article shall apply to the Commercial
Occupancy Certificate regulation of Cannabis Dispensaries. (Ord. O-24-003, 2-
15-2024)
Sec. 4.603. Commissioner.
   A.   The Mayor shall be the Cannabis Dispensary Commercial Occupancy
Certificate Commissioner and shall perform all duties not pre-empted by the
Act, as amended from time to time, which are necessary to enforce the
provisions of this Article.
   B.   The Mayor shall perform all duties related to the issuance, suspension
or revocation of a Cannabis Dispensary Commercial Occupancy Certificate, in a
manner consistent with the Mayor’s duties related to liquor licensing as
provided in Chapter 5 of the City Code, as amended from time to time, which
duties are not pre-empted by the Act. (Ord. O-24-003, 2-15-2024)
Sec. 4.604. Cannabis Dispensary Commercial Occupancy Certificate Required.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate a
cannabis dispensing facility without first having obtained a Cannabis
Dispensary Commercial Occupancy Certificate from the Commissioner. It shall be
a prerequisite to the issuance of any such Cannabis Dispensary Commercial
Occupancy Certificate that the applicant have in place, a current, valid State
of Illinois cannabis dispensing license issued pursuant to the Article 15 of
the Act. (Ord. O-24-003, 2-15-2024)
4.605. Application Required.
Any applicant for a Cannabis Dispensary Commercial Occupancy Certificate shall
be required to submit an sworn or affirmed application including all
information as required for an application for a liquor license provided in
Chapter 5 of the City Code and any other pertinent information as requested by
the Commissioner or the Commissioner’s designee. (Ord. O-24-003, 2-15-2024)
4.606. Cannabis Dispensary Commercial Occupancy Certificate Fees.
   A.   Application Review Fee: A non-refundable application review fee shall
be two thousand dollars ($2000.00) for review of any application a Cannabis
Dispensary Commercial Occupancy Certificate.
   B.   Initial Cannabis Dispensary Commercial Occupancy Certificate Fee: The
initial Cannabis Dispensary Commercial Occupancy Certificate fee shall be eight
thousand dollars ($8000.00).
   C.   Annual Cannabis Dispensary Commercial Occupancy Certificate Renewal
Fee: The Annual Cannabis Dispensary Commercial Occupancy Certificate Renewal
fee shall be eight thousand dollars ($8000.00), which shall be due on the annul
anniversary of the initial issuance of the Cannabis Dispensary Commercial
Occupancy Certificate. (Ord. O-24-003, 2-15-2024)
4.607. Number of Available Cannabis Dispensary Commercial Occupancy
Certificates.
There are zero (0) available Cannabis Dispensary Commercial Occupancy
Certificates for issuance in the City. The allowance of any number of Cannabis
Dispensary Commercial Occupancy
Certificates is within the exclusive authority of City Council, only as
approved by amendment to this Article. (Ord. O-24-003, 2-15-2024)
CHAPTER 5
LIQUOR CONTROL
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
5.101. Rules And Definitions
Sec. 5.101. Rules And Definitions.
   A.   Rules Of Word Construction: The language set forth in the text of this
chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of
construction:
      1.   The singular number includes the plural number and the plural the
singular.
      2.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
      3.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   Definitions: Whenever in this chapter the following words and phrases
have been used, they shall, for the purposes hereof, have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this subsection, except when the context
otherwise indicates:
   ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol, but not including denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of
this article shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured
alcohol produced in accordance with acts of congress and regulations
promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one
percent (0.5%), or less, of alcohol by volume.
   AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any coin in slot operated amusement device or
any table game which devices are defined as follows:
      Coin In Slot Operated Amusement Device: A machine or other device
designed for self-service use and designed upon the insertion of a coin to
deliver to the player/operator thereof no money or property or right to receive
money or property but only the right of operation or play; which machine or
other device shall include, but not be limited to, pinball machines,
shuffleboards, bowling machines and any photoelectric or electronic amusement
device which in its operation shoots or propels an electric light, ray or
impulse to a target, but which machine or other device shall not include coin
operated phonograph or merchandise vending machines.
      Table Game: Any device, whether controlled by skill or chance, for the
operation of a game, pastime or contest by the manipulation of a marble, sphere
or of objects or figures or by controlling the movement of same or by setting
same in motion by electrical, electronics and/or mechanical means, which (for
the purpose of construing the terms within this article) device shall not
include any of the following:
      Bagatelle Table: Any table having nine (9) holes for the playing of a
game somewhat like pocket billiards, played with cues but with nine (9) balls.
      Billiards: A game played upon a billiard table having no holes, played
with cues and with three (3) balls.
      Bumper Pool: A game played upon a billiard table having one hole at each
end and bumpers in the center, played with cues, somewhat like pocket billiards
but with eleven (11) balls.
      Pool Or Pocket Billiards: Any number of variations of a game played upon
a billiard table having six (6) holes (1 in each corner and 1 hole at the
center of both of the longer sides of such table) or pockets, played with cues
and one through fifteen (15) balls.
   BAR: A barrier or counter at and over which alcoholic liquors and sometimes
food are passed or served.
   BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water and includes, among
other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   BOWLING ALLEY: A building or structure housing at least one lane for rolling
composition balls at ten (10) pins; the commencement of play upon such alley is
not prompted by the insertion of a coin.
   BREWPUB: A restaurant with an on premises brewery operated pursuant to a
state brewpub license provided for in section 5-1(n) of the liquor control act
of 1934 1  where beer is manufactured and stored for sale on the premises.
   CARRYOUT RESTAURANT: Any place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held
out to the public as principally selling ready to eat meals prepared and
packaged for delivery to or pick up by customers for consumption off premises,
even though such place may have tables or booths for consumption of such meals
on premises. "Restaurant" shall not mean or be construed to include a "carryout
restaurant".
   CATERER: A person, firm, or corporation whose work is providing food and
service for a banquet or dinner, the recipients of such food or service being
persons specially invited to such banquet or dinner rather than the general
public.
   CATERING ESTABLISHMENT: Premises utilized by a caterer for private banquets
or dinners prepared by the caterer, which premises are unavailable to the
general public except by appointment, and which premises are not at the time of
such catered banquet or dinner utilized as a restaurant within the meaning of
this section.
   CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of the state of Illinois, not
for pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than
the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning and hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number and kind of
employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members and
guests; provided, that such club files with the local liquor control
commissioner at the time of its application for a license under this chapter,
two (2) copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly
files, within ten (10) days of the election of any additional member, his name
and address; and provided, that its affairs and management are conducted by a
board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members
at their annual meeting and that no member or any officer, agent or employee of
the club is paid or directly receives in the form of salary or other
compensation any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to
the club or its members or its guests introduced by members beyond the amount
of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting by the members
or by its board of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue
of the club.
   DISTRIBUTOR: Any person, other than a manufacturer of alcoholic liquor
licensed as such by the state of Illinois, who is engaged in the purchasing,
storing, possessing or warehousing of any alcoholic liquors for resale or
reselling at wholesale, whether within or without the city.
   DRIVE-IN, DRIVE-THROUGH RESTAURANT: A food service establishment, with or
without interior facilities for eating, which sells and serves meals to
customers while in vehicles for consumption on premises in vehicles or off
premises. "Restaurant" shall not mean or be construed to include a "drive-in,
drive- through restaurant".
   FILLING STATION: Any building, structure, premises, enclosure or other place
within the city where a container or containers, tank or tanks, either portable
or stationary, and containing ether, carbon bisulfate, gasoline, naphtha,
benzol, hydrocarbon (gas drips), liquefied petroleum gas, acetone, kerosene,
turpentine or other flammable liquids having a flashpoint below one hundred
sixty five degrees Fahrenheit (165°F), are kept or located for the purpose of
selling, offering for sale or distributing any such liquids from such container
or tank; provided, however, that any place where such flammable liquids are
kept or sold for medicinal purposes only shall be excluded from the foregoing.
   GENERAL PUBLIC: The whole body politic including the people of the
neighborhood, the city of Wood Dale, the state of Illinois, the United States
Of America and/or such people at large whoever shall travel through the city of
Wood Dale.
   HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty five
(25) or more rooms are used for sleeping accommodations and one or more public
dining rooms where meals are served to such guests and others, such sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings, structure or
structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity.
   LICENSE OR LIQUOR LICENSE: That specific grant of a specific privilege
authorizing a licensee to sell or offer for sale alcoholic liquor at retail
only in the manner set forth in the wording of the license classification
itself as well as in compliance with the rules and regulations set forth in
this chapter.
   LICENSEE: Any person, firm or corporation holding a license under the
provisions of this chapter.
   LIVE MUSIC: That music produced by a human being as distinguished from
mechanical reproduction and played in an establishment under a special use
permit issued by the city council.
   LOCAL LIQUOR COMMISSION OR LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION: The office of
the mayor of the city, assisted by the city attorney and the city clerk, as
well as such other person or persons as the mayor may appoint to aid him in the
exercise of the powers and the performance of the duties herein provided for
the local liquor control commissioner.
   LOCAL LIQUOR COMMISSIONER OR LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER: The mayor of
the city.
   LOUNGE: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where alcoholic liquor is offered for sale at retail for
consumption only on the premises, and said term includes therein "cocktail
lounge", "bars" and "taverns". A lounge may be maintained and operated as a
separate, independent establishment or it may be included within and be an
accessory part of another establishment, such as a restaurant, hotel or bowling
alley, primarily engaged in a business or occupation other than that of the
sale and consumption of alcoholic liquor.
   MANAGER: An overseer or director of the liquor business of a licensee.
   MEAL: Food prepared and served for on premises consumption consisting of at
least a sandwich, wrap, or similar, or an entree with one side dish. "Meal"
shall not mean and include chips, pretzels, nuts, curls, crisps, jerky, or
other food understood to be a snack when served alone without a sandwich, wrap,
or similar, or an entree.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
as a place where the general public may purchase meals that are actually and
regularly prepared, served, and consumed therein, without sleeping
accommodations, such space being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen
and dining room equipment and capacity and having employed therein a sufficient
number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its
guests. "Restaurant" shall mean and include a self- service style restaurant
where prepared meals are served at a counter to customers for carrying to and
consumption at tables or booths therein, but shall not mean and include "drive-
in, drive- through restaurant" or "carryout restaurant".
   RETAILER OR RETAIL LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENT: Any person, firm or corporation who
sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form, or provides or allows the consumption of alcoholic liquor
on its premises in connection with the sale of any services or the sale, rental
or lease of any products, goods or indoor or outdoor space or facilities.
   SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, either directly or indirectly, including the transfer of alcoholic
liquors by and through the transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or
certificates or the provision of alcoholic liquors in connection with the
payment of any admission charge, cover charge, membership fee, contribution
fee, donation, or similar, and includes and means all sales made by any person,
whether a principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SALE AT RETAIL, SELL AT RETAIL, RETAIL SALE: Sales for use or consumption
and not for resale in any form.
   SALE OF PACKAGE LIQUOR: The sale of alcoholic liquor in the original
package.
   SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits. (Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-
2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/5-1(n).
ARTICLE II
LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION
SECTION:
5.201. Local Liquor Control Commissioner
5.202. Duties Of Local Liquor Control Commissioner
5.203. Powers Of Local Liquor Control Commissioner
5.204. Compensation Of Local Liquor Control Commissioner
Sec. 5.201. Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
The mayor of the city shall be the local liquor control commissioner. (Ord. O-
15-028, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 5.202. Duties Of Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   A.   The local liquor control commissioner shall be charged with the
administration within the city of the appropriate provisions of the liquor
control act of 1934 1 , this article or such ordinances and resolutions
relating to alcoholic liquor as may be enacted by the city council and of such
other legislation as may become applicable within the city with respect to the
sale of alcoholic liquor.
   B.   The local liquor control commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a
complete record of all alcoholic liquor licenses issued by him.
   C.   All alcoholic liquor license fees shall be paid to the city clerk at
the time application is approved and shall be forthwith turned over to the city
treasurer. The fee shall be deposited by the city treasurer in the general
corporate fund or in such other fund as may be designated by the city council.
(Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
Sec. 5.203. Powers Of Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
The local liquor control commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions and duties with respect to licenses other than licenses to
manufacture, import, distribution, railroads, airplanes and boats:
   A.   To grant all licenses issued for locations, places and premises within
the city.
   B.   Following a hearing conducted in accordance with the provisions of
section 5.501 of this chapter, to levy a fine for such violations (as set forth
elsewhere herein), or to suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or to
revoke for cause all such licenses issued for locations, places and premises
within the city.
   C.   To appoint one or more persons to assist him in the exercise of such
powers and the performance of such duties as he may deem necessary.
   D.   To adopt application forms, procedures, rules and regulations for the
licensing and operating of retail liquor establishments:
      1.   To ensure compliance with the laws relating to the sale of alcoholic
liquor;
      2.   To protect the health, safety and welfare of the people of the city;
and
      3.   To foster and promote temperance in the consumption of alcoholic
liquors.
   E.   To receive complaints from any citizen that any of the provisions of
this chapter, or any rules or regulations adopted pursuant hereto, or any other
applicable rules or regulations have been or are being violated.
   F.   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a
license or for a renewal thereof, or any current licensee, and to examine or
cause to be examined the books and records of any such applicant or licensee.
   G.   With respect to any current licensee upon whom notice of hearing to
show cause why the license of the licensee should not be revoked or suspended,
to hear testimony and take proof for his information in the performance of his
duties, and for such purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any
part of the state of Illinois.
   H.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer or peace officer
to enter at any time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether
any of the provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by
him (or by any other agency having the authority to do so) have been or are
being violated, and at the time of such entry, to examine such premises in
connection therewith.
   J.   To receive local license fees and pay the same forthwith to the city
treasurer.
   K.   To require fingerprints of any applicant for a local license or for a
renewal thereof and collect a fee therefor and forward said fee and said
fingerprints to the Illinois state police.
   L.   To notify the secretary of state of Illinois where a club incorporated
under the general not for profit corporation act 1  of the state of Illinois or
where a foreign corporation functioning as a club in Illinois under a
certificate of authority issued under that act has violated this article and/or
the liquor control act 2  by selling or offering for sale at retail alcoholic
liquors without a retailer's license and/or a local license issued pursuant to
this chapter. (Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 105/101.01 et seq.
2 2. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
Sec. 5.204. Compensation Of Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
The local liquor control commissioner shall receive as compensation the sum of
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) annually, payable in twelve (12) equal
monthly installments. (Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015)
ARTICLE III
LICENSES
SECTION:
5.301. License Required
5.302. Application For License
5.303. Ineligibility For Licensing
5.304. Classification Of Licenses And Permits
5.305. Number Of Licenses
5.306. License Fees
5.307. Term Of License
5.308. Personal Nature Of License
5.309. Change Of Location
5.310. Proration Of License Fee
5.311. Renewal Of License
5.312. Dramshop Insurance
5.313. Video Gaming
Sec. 5.301. License Required.
   A.   Except as specifically provided herein, it shall be unlawful within the
City to offer for sale or to sell at retail any alcoholic liquor, or to serve
or allow consumption thereof in any retail liquor establishment without first
having obtained a City retailer’s liquor license for each location, place or
premises where the retailer is located to sell the same, or to violate the
terms of such license. However, neither these licensing requirements nor other
provisions of this chapter shall apply to an individual who, unrelated to any
sale: 1) consumes alcoholic liquors within a sleeping room in a hotel or other
place of lodging rented by him or her, or serves such to his or her invited
guests within such room; or 2) as an owner, tenant, or resident of a
residential unit within a condominium, apartment, or similar multi-family
dwelling complex, consumes alcoholic liquors within a clubhouse, social room,
recreational center, patio, pool area or similar facility of such complex, or
serves such to his or her invited guests when within such facility, regardless
of whether a usage or other fee or charges has been paid for the use of such
facility. Further, no retailer’s liquor license shall be required for the
service of alcoholic liquors by a person, firm, or corporation to the employees
of such or the employees’ consumption of alcoholic liquors at an event
conducted by and held on the business premises of such person, firm, or
corporation, provided that: 1) there shall be no sale of alcoholic liquors in
connection with such event, other than monetary contributions by employees
attending which does not exceed in total amount the actual cost of food, drink,
and entertainment provided at such event; 2) the service and consumption of
alcoholic liquors at any one (1) such event shall not exceed four (4) hours
total; 3) there shall be no more than five (5) such events at which alcoholic
beverages are served and consumed within a twelve (12) calendar month period;
4) no event at which alcoholic liquors are served and consumed shall be held
within twenty one (21) days of another such event; and 5) no conduct prohibited
under section 5.405 of this chapter or service or consumption of alcoholic
liquors by an individual under age as prohibited under section 5.407 of this
chapter shall occur at such event.
   B.   Where two (2) or more such locations, places or premises are under the
same roof but separated by any area not under the retailer’s control and open
to the general public, or at the same street address but separated by any area
not under the retailer’s control and open to the general public, a separate
City retailer’s license shall be obtained for each such location, place or
premises; provided, that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to
prevent any hotel operator licensed under the provisions of this article from
serving liquor to his registered guests in any room or part of his hotel, if
such liquor so served shall be kept in and served from a licensed location,
place or premises in said hotel.
   C.   The issuance to or possession by any person of a retail liquor dealer’s
tax stamp issued for a then existing tax period by the United States government
or any of its agencies shall be and constitute prima facie evidence that such
person is subject to the provisions of this article.
(Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015; amd. Ord. O-24-039, 11-7-2024)
Sec. 5.302. Application For License.
   A.   Application for a local retailer's liquor license shall be made to the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner, which application shall be in writing, upon
forms provided by the Local Liquor Control Commission, and signed by the
applicant if an individual or partnership, or by a duly authorized agent
thereof if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall
contain, but shall not be limited to containing, the following information:
      1.   In the case of an individual, the name, address, date of birth,
social security number and telephone number of the applicant; in the case of a
copartnership, the names, addresses, dates of birth, social security numbers,
telephone numbers of the persons entitled to share in the profits thereof and
the date of formation of the copartnership; and in the case of a corporation,
the names, addresses, dates of birth, social security numbers and telephone
numbers of the officers and directors, and (if an aggregate of more than 5
percent of the stock of such corporation is owned by 1 person or his nominee)
the name, address, date of birth, social security number and telephone number
of such stockholder or his nominee;
      2.   The citizenship of the applicant, place of birth, age, marital
status, length of time as a resident of the City and, if a naturalized citizen,
the time and place of such naturalization (information of the same nature must
be given for any manager or agent in charge where the applicant's sales will be
under the supervision of such manager or agent);
      3.   The character of business of the applicant, and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
      4.   The length of time said applicant has been in business of that
character, the character or type of business of applicant heretofore; and in
the case of a corporation, the date and state of incorporation, and if
incorporated in a state other than Illinois, the date qualified under the
Business Corporation Act of 1983 1  to do business in Illinois (the certificate
of the Secretary of State of Illinois shall be attached to such application);
      5.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application was made;
      6.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      7.   A statement whether such location is owned or leased by the
applicant and, if leased, a copy of such lease shall be attached to said
application;
      8.   A statement by the applicant that he has not received or borrowed
money or anything else of value, and that he will not receive or borrow money
or anything of value (other than merchandising credit in the ordinary course of
business for a period not to exceed 90 days as provided in the Illinois
Compiled Statutes) directly or indirectly from any manufacturer, importing
distributor or distributor representative of any such manufacturer or importing
distributor; and a statement that the applicant has not been a party in any
way, directly or indirectly, to any violation by a manufacturer, distributor or
importing distributor as defined in the Illinois Compiled Statutes;
      9.   A statement whether the applicant is an elected public official and
whether any other person, directly or indirectly, in applicant's place of
business is an elected public official;
      10.   A statement, in the case of the renewal of a license, whether the
applicant made any political contributions to candidates for elected office
within the City within the past two (2) years and the particulars thereof;
      11.   A statement whether the applicant holds any law enforcement office
and, if so, what title;
      12.   A statement whether the applicant possesses a current Federal
wagering stamp and, if so, the reasons therefor;
      13.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of this State or the ordinances of this City;
      14.   A statement whether the applicant has made application for a
similar or other license on premises other than those described in this
application and the disposition of such application;
      15.   A statement whether a previous license by any state or subdivision
thereof or by the Federal government has been revoked and the reasons therefor;
      16.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the State of Illinois or of the United States or any ordinance of the City in
the conduct of applicant's place of business;
      17.   The name, address, date of birth, telephone number and social
security number of the manager or agent of the applicant in charge of premises
for which the license is being applied;
      18.   Evidence that dramshop insurance coverage exists on the applicant,
and if the applicant is not the owner of the premises, whether dramshop
insurance coverage exists on the owner of the premises (a copy of such
insurance policy shall be attached to said application); and
      19.   Evidence that surety bond coverage exists (such bond shall be
attached to said application).
   B.   Such application may require the applicant to furnish other information
as may be determined by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. (Ord. O-15-028,
12-17-2015)
   C.   Before any license shall be issued to the applicant:
      1.   The applicant shall furnish the City a surety bond in the amount as
specified in the master fee schedule acceptable to the City. Such bond shall
provide against any violation by the principal, his agents or employees of any
of the terms of this chapter as amended, or any ordinance, rules and
regulations now in force or which may hereafter be in force in the City
affecting the operation of his business.
      2.   The applicant shall see to it that the names of all bartenders,
managers, all principals, the applicant (in the case of an individual), all
partners and (in the case of a corporation) all officers and all stockholders
owning an aggregate of more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such
corporation are submitted to the Wood Dale Police Department and that all of
the aforesaid persons submit themselves for fingerprinting by the Wood Dale
Police Department along with a separate fee as specified in the master fee
schedule for each set of fingerprints to be taken, in order that the Wood Dale
Police Department may perform adequate investigation of such persons to enable
the Local Liquor Control Commission to ascertain that issuance of any such
license will comply with the Statutes of the State of Illinois and all
applicable ordinances of the City.
      3.   In accordance with section 6-27.1 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934
2 , before any liquor license is issued, the applicant will verify that they
are in compliance with the training requirements required in the statute. The
law requires alcohol servers (and those checking IDs for alcohol service) in
Illinois on premises establishments to successfully complete a beverage alcohol
sellers/servers education and training (BASSET) class by a certain date based
upon county population.
The Local Liquor Commissioner will provide the applicant with a certification
form that must be completed prior to issuance of a liquor license. This form
will include the name of each employee that will be serving alcohol, that
employee's date of birth, employee telephone numbers and dates of completion of
BASSET training. They also must indicate whether the training was completed
online or through the class offered by the Wood Dale Police Department. The
Police Department will verify the training of those employees prior to the
issuance of a liquor license.
The liquor license holder is responsible for training each new employee in
accordance with section 6-27.1 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934 3 . (Ord. O-
18-024, 7-19-2018)
   D.   Following the issuance of any license pursuant to the terms of this
chapter, the licensee thereof shall report in writing any changes in the
licensee's residency, surety bond, management and in partnership, officers,
directors, persons holding directly or beneficially an aggregate of more than
five percent (5%) of the stock or ownership interest in the licensee or
managers of establishments so licensed. Said report shall be made to the local
liquor control commissioner ten (10) days prior to any such change, and all
such persons becoming partners, officers, directors or persons holding such
ownership interest (as the case may be) shall meet all of the applicable
standards and requirements of this chapter. (Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
2 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-27.1.
3 2. 235 ILCS 5/6-27.1.
Sec. 5.303. Ineligibility For Licensing.
   A.   No such liquor license shall be issued to:
      1.   A person who is not a resident of the city;
      2.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he resides;
      3.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      4.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law if the local liquor control commissioner determines that such person
has not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after
considering matters set forth in such person's application and the commission's
investigation, the burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation being on the
applicant;
      5.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping
a house of prostitution or keeping a place of juvenile prostitution, promoting
prostitution that involves keeping a place of prostitution, or promoting
juvenile prostitution that involves keeping a place of juvenile prostitution;
      6.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
      7.   A person whose license under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
      8.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
      9.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof or any limited
partnership thereof owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate limited
partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive a
license hereunder for any reason other than citizenship;
      10.   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member, officer,
manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation or
interest in the limited liability company would not be eligible to receive a
license hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within
the city;
      11.   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is
incorporated in Illinois or unless it is a foreign corporation which is
qualified under the Illinois business corporation act of 1983 1  or the limited
liability company act 2  to transact business in Illinois (the local liquor
control commissioner shall permit and accept from an applicant for a license
under this act proof prepared from the secretary of state's website that the
corporation or limited liability company is in good standing and is qualified
under the business corporation act of 1983 or the limited liability company act
to transact business in Illinois);
      12.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of an individual person as a licensee;
      13.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
or who shall have forfeited his bond to appear in court in answer to charges
for any such violation;
      14.   A person who does not own, or beneficially own the premises for
which a license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period
for which the license is to be issued;
      15.   Any law enforcing public official or including members of local
liquor control commissions, any mayor, alderman, or member of the city council
or commission, any president of the village board of trustees, any member of a
village board of trustees, or any president or member of a county board; and no
such official shall have a direct interest in the manufacture, sale, or
distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that a license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises that are not located within the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of the city's local control commissioner, if the
issuance of such license is approved by the state liquor control commission;
and except that a license may be granted to any alderman or member of a city
council in relation to premises that are located within the territory of the
city if: a) the sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the license is incidental
to the selling of food, b) the issuance of the license is approved by the state
commission, c) the issuance of the license is in accordance with all applicable
ordinances of the city, and d) the alderman or member of a city council granted
a license does not vote on alcoholic liquor issues pending before city council.
Notwithstanding any provision of this subsection A15 to the contrary, an
alderman or member of a city council or commission may direct interest in the
manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor as long as he or she is
not a law enforcing public official or the mayor. To prevent any conflict of
interest, the said alderman or member with the direct interest in the
manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor shall not participate in
any meetings, hearings, or decisions on matters impacting the manufacture,
sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor. Furthermore, the mayor may have an
interest in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor as long
as the council or board over which he or she presides has made a local liquor
control commissioner appointment that complies with the requirements of section
4-2 of the liquor control act of 1934 3 ;
      16.   A person not eligible for a state retail liquor dealer's license;
      17.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee;
      18.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed
by any subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of section 5/28-1 of, or as
prescribed by section 5/28-1.1 or section 28-3 of the criminal code of 1961 4
or the criminal code of 2012 5 , or as prescribed by a statute replaced by any
of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
      19.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued
by the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued
a license under the raffles and poker runs act 6  or the Illinois pull tabs and
jar games act 7 ;
      20.   A corporation or limited liability company if any officer, manager
or director thereof, or any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than
twenty percent (20%) of the stock of such corporation or interest in the
limited liability company has been issued a federal wagering stamp;
      21.   A person who is licensed by any licensing authority as a
manufacturer of beer, or any partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or any other
form of business enterprise licensed as a manufacturer of beer, having any
legal, equitable, or beneficial interest, directly or indirectly, in a person
licensed in this state as a distributor or importing distributor. For purposes
of this subsection A21, a person who is licensed by any licensing authority as
a "manufacturer of beer" shall also mean a brewer and a nonresident dealer who
is also a manufacturer of beer, including a partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or
any other form of business enterprise licensed as a manufacturer of beer;
      22.   A person who is licensed in this state as a distributor or
importing distributor, or any partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or any other
form of business enterprise licensed in this state as a distributor or
importing distributor having any legal, equitable, or beneficial interest,
directly or indirectly, in a person licensed as a manufacturer of beer by any
licensing authority, or any partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or any other
form of business enterprise, except for a person who owns, on or after the
effective date of public act 98-21 8 , no more than five percent (5%) of the
outstanding shares of a manufacturer of beer whose shares are publicly traded
on an exchange within the meaning of the securities exchange act of 1934. For
the purposes of this subsection A22, a person who is licensed by any licensing
authority as a "manufacturer of beer" shall also mean a brewer and a
nonresident dealer who is also a manufacturer of beer, including a partnership,
corporation, limited liability company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate,
or agent thereof, or any other form of business enterprise licensed as a
manufacturer of beer.
A criminal conviction of a corporation is not grounds for the denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license applied for or held by the corporation
if the criminal conviction was not the result of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
the offense that led to the conviction did not result in any financial gain to
the corporation and the corporation has terminated its relationship with each
director, officer, employee, or controlling shareholder whose actions directly
contributed to the conviction of the corporation. The local liquor control
commissioner shall determine if all provisions of this paragraph have been met
before any action on the corporation's license is initiated.
   B.   No liquor license shall be issued whenever any or all of the following
situations arise:
      1.   The premises for which a license is sought are premises for which a
federal wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government.
      2.   The premises for which a class P license is sought will include the
display or sale of any other commodities, excepting such items customarily
associated with package liquor stores, are sold or offered for sale unless the
display or sale of alcoholic liquor in its original package shall be conducted
only in a portion of the premises set aside or physically separated from that
portion of the premises used in conjunction with the display or sale of such
other commodities.
      3.   The sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor will occur within one
hundred feet (100') of any church, school (other than an institution of higher
learning), hospital, home for aged or indigent persons, or for veterans, their
spouses or children or any military or naval station; provided, that this
prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant services, regularly
organized clubs or to restaurants, food shops or other places where the sale of
alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on if such place of
business so exempted shall have been established for such a purpose prior to
the effective date hereof, nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at
retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any
church or school where such church or school has been established within such
one hundred feet (100') since the issuance of the original license. In the case
of a church, the distance of one hundred feet (100') shall be measured to the
nearest part of any building used for worship services or educational programs
and not to property boundaries. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the
issuance of a license to a church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic
liquor if any such sales are limited to periods when groups are assembled on
the premises solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale
or consumption of alcoholic liquors.
      4.   Such person seeking such license theretofore shall have failed to
obtain and pay for such other licenses and permits from the city as may be
necessary (under other applicable ordinances and laws) for the operation of
such business or businesses of the applicant.
      5.   The majority of customers are minors of school age or where the
principal business transacted upon the premises for which a license is sought
consists of schoolbooks, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such
minors.
      6.   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
sold at retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such
premises to any other portion of the same building or structure used for
dwelling or lodging purposes and which is permitted to be used or kept
accessible for use by the public. This provision shall not prevent any
connection between such premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his family and personal guests.
(Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
2 2. 805 ILCS 180/1-1 et seq.
3 1. 235 ILCS 5/4-2.
4 1. Laws 1961, pp. 1983ff, app'd July 28, 1961, eff. Jan. 1, 1962.
5 2. 720 ILCS 5/28-1, 5/28-1.1, 5/28-3.
6 3. 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
7 4. 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
8 5. Effective June 13, 2013.
Sec. 5.304. Classification Of Licenses And Permits.
   A.   Except as may be provided for the issuance of certain permits under the
terms of subsection B of this section, every person, firm or corporation
engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the City must first have
obtained a suitable liquor license authorizing the specific type and character
of such alcoholic liquor sale as may be contemplated in such retail business:
      1.   Each such licensee shall pay a license fee for such license as set
forth in section
5.306 of the master fee schedule. The payment of these fees must be by
certified funds.
      2.   Such licenses shall be divided into the following classifications,
which shall include the annual fees for such license as indicated in section
5.306 of the master fee schedule:
   CLASS A: Authorizing the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
only on the premises specified and retail sale of package liquor for
consumption off the premises where sold.
   CLASS A-R (Restricted): Authorizing the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption only on the premises specified.
   CLASS B: For issuance to a brewpub for the sale of beer manufactured and
stored on the licensed premises for consumption on premises and in packages for
consumption off premises. The Class B license holder must already possess an
accompanying liquor license to sell and serve alcoholic liquor, and only the
kinds of liquor (i.e., beer, wine or all alcoholic liquors) authorized under
the accompanying license may be served or sold with the Class B license.
Alcoholic liquors authorized for sale for consumption on premises under the
Class B and accompanying liquor license may be sold, served, and consumed at a
bar and/or at tables with or without a meal, provided that no alcoholic liquors
may be sold or served for consumption on premises when meals for consumption on
premises are not offered for sale or served.
   CLASS CA: For issuance to a "caterer", as defined in this chapter, who must
possess accompanying City liquor license to sell and serve alcoholic liquor,
and the catering license will be only for consumption on the premises where
food is being prepared and/or served by the caterer. The caterer may sell and
serve under a Class CA license only the kinds of liquor (i.e., beer, wine or
all alcoholic liquors) under the accompanying class of liquor license.
   CLASS CE: Community Events liquor license.
      a.   The Class CE liquor license is established to permit the sale and
consumption of alcoholic beverages at community events conducted or organized
by the city or other units of local government located partially, or wholly,
within the City limits.
      b.    A Class CE liquor license may be issued to:
         (1)   The City or any department or agency thereof.
         (2)   Any unit of local government that is conducting or organizing a
community event within the corporate limits of the City.
         (3)   Any nonprofit organization that has been expressly authorized by
the City.
         (4)   A licensee approved by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner,
provided the licensee has obtained all necessary State licenses.
      c.   A holder of a Class CE liquor license is authorized to:
         (1)   Sell or serve alcoholic beverages for consumption on the
premises of the designated community event location during the event’s hours of
operation, subject to the limited hours of sale requirements provided in
section 5.304(d)(7) of the Code.
         (2)   Permit the consumption of alcoholic beverages within designated
areas of the community event, subject to all applicable ordinances and state
laws.
         (3)   Offer alcoholic beverages for sale through temporary structures
or vendor booths, provided such structures comply with the City code.
      d.   The following restrictions and requirements shall apply:
         (1)    All applicants for a Class CE liquor license shall obtain a
community event permit from the City prior to the issuance of the liquor
license. The community event permit application must be submitted in accordance
with the City’s Code governing community events and must be approved before the
CE liquor license will be issued.
         (2)   The Class CE license shall be issued only for the duration of
the community event, and shall not exceed four (4) days.
         (3)   Alcoholic beverages may only be sold in clearly defined areas
approved by the City, such as beer gardens, tents, or enclosed sections of the
event premises.
         (4)   The License Holder shall provide adequate security personnel and
implement measures, including age verification procedures, to ensure that
alcoholic beverages are not sold to or consumed by minors, and must submit the
certification form outlined in subsection 5.302.C.3 of this Article to
demonstrate compliance with the BASSET (Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers
Education and Training) program requirements.
         (5)   The License Holder shall maintain adequate liability insurance,
including liquor liability coverage, as required by the City.
         (6)   The License Holder shall comply with all applicable federal,
state and local laws, including the Illinois Liquor Control Act and the
ordinances of the City.
         (7)   The sale of alcoholic beverages under a Class CE license shall
be limited to the hours of 12:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., unless otherwise approved
by the city council.
         (8)   All health and safety regulations, including those relating to
food service and sanitation, shall be strictly adhered to at the community
event.
      e.   Application for a Class CE, community event liquor license, shall be
made in writing to the Local Liquor Commissioner at least thirty (30) days
prior to the community event. The application shall contain all of the
information and be in the form required by section 5.302, “Application for
License” of this article and shall also state:
         (1)   The name of the host or sponsoring entity.
         (2)   A brief description of the community event.
         (3)   A description of the area of the premises where the community
event is to occur and for which the license is being requested.
         (4)   The date and times of the community event.
         (5)   A drawing or depiction showing the designated areas where
alcoholic beverages will be sold and consumed.
         (6)   Proof of insurance, as required under this subsection.
      f.   Community events held wholly indoors shall comply with the maximum
occupancy limits for said facility provided under the City Code.
   CLASS COVID TEMPORARY: Authorizing current Liquor License Holders, in good
standing, during the COVID Pandemic condition, to sell and offer for retail
sale alcoholic beverages, as defined in the Liquor Control Act of 1934, to be
sold and consumed on the premises, including the parking lot and area adjacent
thereto, where alcoholic beverages are sold. Said License is subject to any and
all other restrictions on the property on which the Licensed Premises is
located, including those imposed by the property owner, landlord, condominium
association or any such other restrictions encumbering the premises. Further,
the License Holder must maintain all existing handicapped parking, unless
suitable arrangements are made to relocate said handicapped parking to
accommodate the outdoor use, said handicapped parking must be in accordance
with Americans with Disabilities Guidelines.
   It is the responsibility of the Licensee to fully comply with all Center for
Disease Control (CDC) Guidelines, all Illinois Department of Public Health
(IDPH) Regulations, and must obtain approval from the DuPage County Health
Department.
   Further, the License Holder shall segregate, by partition or otherwise, the
area utilized for seating and its patrons from any and all vehicular traffic.
Any music or other activities on the premises shall be conducted in accordance
with the City's current sound regulations and all music must cease by 9:00 p.m.
   Such Temporary License shall be valid until October 31, 2021, and will
thereafter terminate without further notice. The City reserves the right to
expand, restrict or eliminate the conditions set forth herein in accordance
with all Federal, State and Local regulations or mandates. The conditions and
restrictions provided for in the current Liquor License, to the extent not
otherwise modified herein, remain in full force and effect. Upon the expiration
of this COVID Temporary License, the License Holder's operation shall resume
under the terms and conditions of their existing Liquor License.
   The City has determined, in light of the hardship experienced by the
business establishments in the City from the COVID-19 Pandemic, to waive the
License Fee for the COVID Temporary License. Any current Liquor License Holder,
in good standing, is eligible for the COVID Temporary Liquor License, upon
submitting an Application to the City.
   Nothing herein shall prevent the City from otherwise exercising its general
police powers to ensure the health, safety and welfare of the residents and
City.
   CLASS E: Authorizing the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
only on the bowling alley premises specified and retail sale of package liquor
for consumption off of the bowling alley premises where sold.
   CLASS G: For issuance to units of local government for the operation of golf
courses and/or golf driving ranges, provided such operation is a function of
said unit of local government and not operated under a concession license or
management agreement for sale at retail in and upon the premises specified in
such license only for consumption on said premises.
   CLASS GS: Authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor in the original package
for off premises consumption by any convenience or similar store selling food,
groceries, prepared foods and drink for immediate consumption, and other
products on the same premises with the retail sale of gasoline and other motor
fuels dispensed directly into vehicles. Such premises shall not be eligible for
any other class of license provided for under this section, even though it may
meet the requirements for such. Alcoholic liquors shall be stocked, displayed,
and sold within only one building on such premises, which shall be a building
in which food, groceries, and prepared foods and drink are also displayed and
sold. The display of alcoholic liquor for sale shall not occupy an area greater
than ten percent (10%) of the total floor area of such building. No beer or
wine shall be consumed on the premises nor displayed, stocked, stored, or sold
on any portion of the premises except as provided herein.
   CLASS H: For issuance to hotels, authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor at
retail in the hotel premises specified in such license, whether for consumption
or in its original package, to guests of such hotel, in the rooms occupied by
such guests on such premises. Where there exists on such premises for which a
given licensee holds a Class H license, any common area (including, but not
limited to, lobbies and/or hallways) not under the exclusive control and
supervision of such Class H license, additional liquor licenses shall be
required for each lounge or restaurant located within such given hotel, but in
such event, an annual renewal fee for each such additional license shall be
charged in lieu of any initial fee.
   CLASS M: Authorizing the licensee to sell or offer for sale at retail
alcoholic liquor on the premises where sold and only with meals. The licensee
hereunder shall restrict the service of such alcoholic liquor to persons seated
at tables or booths only. There shall be no bar or counter service within an
establishment operating under such Class M license. Any violation of these
requirements may result in the revocation of the license.
   CLASS M-R: Authorizing the sale of beer and wine for consumption only on the
premises where sold and only with meals. The licensee hereunder shall restrict
the service of such beer and wine to persons seated at tables or booths only.
There shall be no bar or counter service within an establishment operating
under such Class M-R license. Any violation of these requirements may result in
the revocation of the license.
   CLASS N: Authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption only on
the premises specified, being a club license of a not for profit club.
   CLASS O: Outdoor event temporary liquor license.
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to sell,
distribute or allow the consumption of alcoholic beverages in or upon any
public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private
business, premises or in any building or structure in the City of Wood Dale
without having first secured a liquor license therefor. Holders of liquor
licenses who conduct events or contests in their parking lots where alcoholic
beverages are being consumed must have a separate Class O license for each
event.
         b.   Class O, temporary outdoor event liquor license, authorizes only
the retail sale, service, and consumption of alcoholic beverages by the drink
on the premises specified in the application in conjunction with an event or
function, including, but not limited to, a picnic, meet, gathering, carnival,
concert, show, or pig roast, that is open to the general public, with or
without an admission charge, and is wholly or partially conducted out of doors
on the premises. A class O, outdoor event temporary liquor license, is required
in conjunction with such event or function even if the applicant possesses
another class of liquor license under this section. However, a class O, outdoor
event temporary liquor license, shall not be required for the sales or service
of alcoholic beverages by organizations at functions for which a daily permit
has been granted under subsection B of this section.
         c.   Application for a class O, outdoor event temporary liquor
license, shall be made in writing to the local liquor commission at least ten
(10) days prior to the event. The application shall contain all of the
information and be in the form required by section
5.302, "Application For License", of this article and shall also state: 1) the
dates, hours, location, and the estimated maximum number of individuals to
attend the event or function each day; 2) a description and the size of the
area (including any indoor space) of the premises where the event or function
is to occur and for which the license is being requested; 3) the name and type
of media in which the event or function has been promoted or advertised and the
dates of such advertisement or promotion; and 4) a detailed description of the
event or function, including whether or not there is to be any unique property
or valuables (e.g., antiques, artworks, jewelry, vehicles) displayed or
exhibited and the average amount of cash anticipated to be on the premises at
any given time due to the event or function. Additionally, if the event or
function is to be conducted and/or sponsored by persons other than the owner or
lessor of the premises, the application shall state for such persons all
information required by section 5.302 of this article for the applicant.
         d.   During the event or function, there shall be appropriate
security, provision for emergencies, and control of access and movement of
persons and vehicles on the licensed premises and adjacent areas that will be
affected by the activities thereon. A written plan stating in detail the
measures to be taken in this regard shall be submitted with the application. In
addition to review and approval by the local liquor commissioner, the plan
shall be reviewed and approved by the chief of police, and the applicant shall
make all reasonable requested revisions thereto. Security personnel shall be
present on the licensed premises at all times during the sale, service, and
consumption of alcoholic beverages. Security personnel shall be either sworn or
auxiliary members of the city of Wood Dale police department, or appropriate
private security contractors or employees of a private security contractor
agency licensed as provided for in the private detective, private alarm,
private security, and locksmith act of 1993. Also, the licensee shall be
responsible for all costs and expenses to the city of Wood Dale for additional
city personnel and vehicles that city deems necessary for controlling the
movement of persons and vehicles and otherwise maintaining order on public
rights of way relative to the event or function. The city shall prepare an
estimate of such costs and expenses at the time of application, which must be
paid prior to the issuance of the license. Any balance due from the actual
costs and expenses shall be paid within ten (10) days of the licensee being
presented with a statement therefor.
         e.   Fully functioning and maintained sanitary facilities, either
portable or permanently installed, shall be on the premises at all times during
which there is sales, service, or consumption of alcoholic beverages as
follows:
            One toilet, one urinal, and one hand sink for males and two (2)
toilets and one hand sink for females if the estimated maximum number of
attendees is under two hundred (200).
            Two (2) toilets, two (2) urinals, and two (2) hand sinks for males
and three (3) toilets and two (2) hand sinks for females if the estimated
maximum number of attendees is from two hundred (200) to three hundred fifty
(350).
            Three (3) toilets, three (3) urinals, and three (3) hand sinks for
males and five (5) toilets and three (3) hand sinks for females if the
estimated maximum number of attendees is from three hundred fifty one (351) to
six hundred (600).
            Four (4) toilets, four (4) urinals, and four (4) hand sinks for
males and eight (8) toilets and four (4) hand sinks for females if the
estimated maximum number of attendees is from six hundred one (601) to eight
hundred (800).
If the estimated maximum number of attendees is over eight hundred (800), one
toilet, one urinal, and one hand sink for each additional four hundred (400)
estimated number of male attendees and one toilet and one hand sink for each
additional one hundred seventy (170) estimated number of female attendees.
         f.   No class O, outdoor event temporary liquor license, shall be
issued for a period in excess of three (3) consecutive days. Any request for a
class O, outdoor event temporary liquor license, in excess of the three (3) day
license limitation shall require the submittal of a new application.
         g.   In addition to his authority elsewhere in this chapter to suspend
or revoke any license, or impose fines or other penalties for violation of any
local ordinance or state law, the local liquor commissioner shall have the
right, without any liability to the city of Wood Dale, to summarily suspend
without notice or hearing any class O, outdoor event temporary liquor license
issued, upon a determination pursuant to a sworn statement of a witness, that
any of the following have occurred while alcoholic beverages are being sold,
served, or consumed on the premises for which such license has been issued:
            (1)   The total number of individuals on the property (excluding
employees and contractors of the applicant and sponsor or conductor actually
engaged in the conduct of the event or function) exceeds the estimated maximum
number of attendees stated in the license application.
            (2)   The consumption of alcoholic beverages sold or served at the
event or function by attendees outside of the licensed premises.
            (3)   Fighting or other physical altercations; defecation or
urination in other than in sanitary facilities; and any of the acts prohibited
by section
5.405 of this chapter.
            (4)   Sale, service, or consumption of alcoholic beverages other
than by the drink and other than in plastic or paper containers.
            (5)   Noncompliance with the approved crowd control, security, and
emergency plan as provided for in subsection d of this Class O license or
failure to provide fully functioning and maintained sanitary facilities as
required by subsection e of this Class O license.
The Local Liquor Commissioner shall also have the power to so summarily suspend
any Class O, outdoor event temporary liquor license if he determines that the
applicant or any conductor or sponsor of the event or function has provided
false or misleading information in the application; is in violation of any
Federal, State, or local law or any ordinance or resolution of the City of Wood
Dale; or is indebted to the City of Wood Dale for any fee, cost, or fine.
The order of summary suspension shall be immediately served upon the licensee,
who may request in writing a hearing on such before the Local Liquor
Commissioner, which shall be conducted as soon after the City Manager's receipt
of the request as is reasonably practicable. Pursuant to such hearing, or upon
his own initiative, the Local Liquor Commissioner, after determining that the
acts or conditions giving rise to the summary suspension have ceased or been
eliminated and are not likely to reoccur, may issue a written order rescinding
the suspension. He may impose in such order any controls, restrictions, or
provisions he deems appropriate to prevent the reoccurrence of such acts or
conditions.
         h.   The maximum number of Class O, outdoor event temporary liquor
licenses issued in the City in any calendar year shall not exceed ten (10).
   CLASS OD: Outdoor dining liquor license.
      a.   A currently issued Liquor License, in good standing, authorizing the
offering and retail sale of alcoholic beverages, as defined in the Liquor
Control Act of 1934, to be consumed and sold on the licensed premises, is
extended to the adjacent outdoor area, subject to the following conditions:
         (1)   The dining establishment holds a valid Outdoor Dining Pe1mit as
required under Subsection 17.302.M.5 of the City Code and operates in
accordance with the Commercial Short-Term Sales provisions of Subsection
4.402.B.; and
      b.   Dining establishments with an existing built-in, legal outdoor
dining structure accessory to the dining establishment and dedicated for use as
an outdoor seating area on private property are exempt from the provisions of
this Section, provided the License Holder submits:
         (1)   A valid permit from the City for the built-in structure: or
         (2)   A site plan review evidencing the existence of the built-in
structure.
      c.   Said License is subject to any and all other restrictions on the
property on which the Licensed Premises is located. Further, the License Holder
must maintain all existing handicapped parking, unless suitable arrangements
are made to relocate said handicapped parking to accommodate the outdoor use
and said handicapped parking must be in accordance with the Americans with
Disabilities Guidelines and the City Code.
      d.   Application for a Class OD, outdoor dining liquor license, shall be
made in writing to the Local Liquor Commissioner for any establishment not
exempt under this Section.
      e.   In addition to the Local Liquor Commissioner's authority elsewhere
in this chapter to suspend or revoke any license, or impose fines or other
penalties for violation of any local ordinance or state law, the Local Liquor
Commissioner shall have the right, without any liability to the City, to
temporarily suspend without notice or hearing any Class OD, outdoor dining
liquor license issued, upon a determination pursuant to a sworn statement of a
witness, that any of the following have occurred while alcoholic beverages are
being sold, served, or consumed on the outdoor dining premises for which such
license has been issued:
         (1)   Any violation of the City Code provisions regarding Outdoor
Dining, provided for in Section 17.302.M.5.
         (2)   The consumption of alcoholic beverages sold or served on the
premises by patrons occurs outside of the outdoor area associated with the
Licensed Premise, outside the hours of operation as provided for in this
Subsection, or in violation of any provision otherwise provided for in this
Class OD license.
      f.   The conditions and restrictions provided for in the Liquor License
Holder's current Liquor License, to the extent not otherwise modified herein,
remain in full force and effect.
   CLASS P: Authorizing the Licensee to sell and offer for sale through the
internet and delivery, at retail sale, exclusively for delivery off-premises of
alcoholic beverages, as defined in the Liquor Control Act of 1934, to be sold
and delivered in its original package for delivery and consumption off-premise
from the Licensee's location where the alcoholic beverages are sold. On-
premises consumption of alcoholic beverages may occur in accordance with 235
ILCS 5/6-31.
   CLASS R: Authorizing the licensee to sell or offer for sale at retail
alcoholic liquor on the premises where sold and only with meals.
   CLASS RVG: Authorizing the licensee to sell and offer for retail sale
alcoholic beverages, as defined in the Liquor Control Act of 1934, to be sold
and consumed on premises from the licensee's location where the alcoholic
beverages are sold, at which licensed location video gaming shall be permitted,
as provided for in the Video Gaming Act, provided the licensee operates a full
service restaurant with functioning professional commercial kitchen equipment
and appliances, in addition to a microwave oven, which restaurant has a full
service menu, excluding the service of primarily box-styled or similar type of
pre-prepared meals. Said license shall comply with the procedural requirements
set forth in the Class VG license in this Code.
   CLASS T: Authorizing the sale of draft beer, or bottle beer, and wine for a
temporary period.
   CLASS TG: For issuance to a private vendor who is operating a golf course or
golf related enterprise on property owned by a unit of local government for
sale at retail in and upon the premises specified in such license only for
consumption on said premises.
   CLASS VG: A supplementary license authorizing the installation and operation
of video gaming terminals, as provided in section
5.313 of this article, in any premises issued a Class A, A-R, E, G, H, N, R, or
TG license, and that are a "licensed premises" as defined in section
4.106 of this Code. The premises shall comply with the requirements in said
section
5.313 of this article for the installation of video gaming terminals thereon,
and the Chief of Police or designee shall have the discretion to inspect and
report upon the premises as to compliance prior to the issuance of a Class VG
license. A Class VG license shall be issued for premises eligible for such upon
proof of payment of the required video gaming terminal fees provided in
subsection
5.313A2 of this article, without any other charge therefor. The license
certificate shall state on its face the number of video gaming terminals
authorized for the premises. If the number of authorized video gaming terminals
is increased during the term of the license, the City Clerk shall issue an
amended certificate without charge.
   B.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may grant a daily permit to any
not for profit organization or club located within the City such as a church,
fraternal order or lodge, veterans' organization, civic organization, Fire
Department or other similar organization authorizing the sale of alcoholic
beverages at any picnic, carnival or similar function sponsored or given by
such organization. No more than twelve (12) such daily permits shall be issued
to any one such organization during the period of any one calendar year.
(Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015; amd. Ord. O-17-006, 3-16-2017; Ord. O-17-030, 12-
21-2017; Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018; Ord. O-19-018, 6-20-2019; Ord. O-20-013, 5-
28-2020; Ord. O-20-021, 8-20-2020; Ord. O-21-005, 3-18-2021; Ord. O-23-014, 5-
18-2023; Ord. O-24-039, 11-7-2024)
Sec. 5.305. Number Of Licenses.
The maximum number of local alcoholic liquor licenses issued shall be:
Class A   9
Class A-R 2
Class B   0
Class CA  1
Class CE  No limit - dependent upon liquor control commissioner
Class E   1
Class G   2
Class GS  7
Class H   2
Class M   0
Class M-R 0
Class N   2
Class O   10 per year maximum
Class P   8
Class R   5
Class RVG 2
Class T   No limit - dependent upon Liquor Control Commissioner
Class TG  1
 
(Ord. O-17-030, 12-21-2017; amd. Ord. O-19-003, 3-7-2019; Ord. O-19-19, 6-20-
2019; Ord. O-20-001, 1-16-2020; Ord. O-20-012, 5-21-2020; Ord. O-20-023, 8-20-
2020; Ord. O-21-008, 5-6-2021; Ord. O-21-019, 7-15-2021; Ord. O-21-021, 8-19-
2021; Ord. O-21-029, 10-21-2021; Ord. O-022-2022, 8-18-2022; Ord. O-23-003, 2-
2-2023; Ord. O-24-004, 2-15-2024; Ord. O-14-015, 5-2-2024; Ord. O-24-034, 10-
17-2024; Ord. O-24-039, 11-7-2024)
Sec. 5.306. License Fees.
Fees for alcoholic liquor licenses shall be as specified in the master fee
schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 5.307. Term Of License.
Except for Class O licenses and as otherwise provided in this chapter, every
license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall terminate at eleven
fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. on June 30 following its issuance. (Ord. O-15-
028, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 5.308. Personal Nature Of License.
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed the term
for which it is issued, unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall
cease upon the death of the licensee and shall not descend by the laws of
testate or intestate devolution; provided, that executors or administrators of
the estate of any deceased licensee and the trustee of any insolvent or
bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may
continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under the
order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased
or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license, but not longer
than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
(Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 5.309. Change Of Location.
A retail liquor dealer's license shall apply only to the premises described in
the application and in the license issued hereon and only one location shall be
so described in each license. After a license has been granted for particular
premises, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, upon proper showing, may
endorse upon said license permission to abandon the premises therein described
and remove therefrom to other premises approved by him or it, but in order to
obtain such approval, the licensee shall file with the State Commission and
Local Liquor Commissioner a request in writing and a statement under oath which
shall show that the premises to which removal is to be made complies in all
respects with the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 5.310. Proration Of License Fee.
   A.   All annual fees listed in section
5.306 of the master fee schedule shall be reduced by the number of full
calendar months which have expired in the fiscal (license) year prior to the
initial issuance of the license. (Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015; amd. Ord. O-18-
024, 7-19-2018)
   B.   No refund of any such annual fee or portion thereof shall be made.
   C.   All initial fees are not subject to proration. (Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-
2015)
Sec. 5.311. Renewal Of License.
Any licensee, except the holder of a Class O license, may renew his license at
the expiration thereof; provided, that he is then qualified to receive a
license and the premises for which such renewal license is sought is suitable
for the purpose; provided further, that the renewal privilege herein provided
for shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner from decreasing the number of licenses to
be issued within his jurisdiction.
In addition, the licensee must provide the certification form outlined in
subsection
5.302C3 of this article on an annual basis showing compliance with the BASSET
training requirement. (Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 5.312. Dramshop Insurance.
Any person, trustee, firm or corporation owning, renting, leasing as lessor or
as lessee, or permitting the occupation of any building or premises with
knowledge that alcoholic liquors are to be sold therein, or who having leased
the same for other purposes and who shall knowingly permit therein the sale of
any alcoholic liquors, shall be required to carry dramshop insurance for such
facility in maximum insurance coverage limits so as to save harmless the
premises and the interests of any such person. (Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 5.313. Video Gaming.
   A.   Authority: The City is authorized under the Illinois Video Gaming Act,
230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq.; part 1800, "video gaming", of
title 11, subtitle D, chapter 1, of the Illinois Administrative Code; and the
decisions and rulings of the Illinois Gaming Board to provide for certain local
regulation of video gaming in the City.
      1.   Definitions:
      ESTABLISHMENT OPERATOR: Any person who owns or operates a "licensed
establishment", "licensed fraternal establishment", "licensed veterans'
establishment", or "licensed truck stop establishment", as defined in the Video
Gaming Act.
      LICENSED PREMISES: The premises on which any "licensed establishment",
"licensed fraternal establishment", "licensed veterans' establishment", or
"licensed truck stop establishment", as defined in the Video Gaming Act is
located.
      PERSON: An individual, partnership, non- or for-profit corporation,
limited liability company, or other entity.
      PERSON WITH SIGNIFICANT INTEREST OR CONTROL: Any of the following:
         a.   Each person in whose name a City liquor license is maintained for
the licensed premises;
         b.   Each person who has been determined by the Illinois Gaming Board
or its Administrator as having, or in the opinion of the Administrator of the
Illinois Gaming Board has, the ability to influence or control the activities
of an establishment operator, or elect a majority of its board of directors,
other than a bank or licensed lending institution that holds a mortgage or
other lien, or any other source of funds, acquired in the ordinary course of
business; or
         c.   Persons having the power to exercise significant influence or
control over decisions concerning any part of an establishment operator's video
gaming operation.
      2.   Payment Of City Video Gaming Terminal Fee Required: Payment of a
City video gaming terminal fee is required for the operation of each video
gaming terminal within the Municipal boundaries of the City. No person shall
operate a video gaming terminal or allow the operation of such on premises
owned by and/or under the possession and control of such person without payment
of the required City video gaming terminal fee. The total fee payable shall be
the amount as specified in the master fee schedule times the number of video
gaming terminals on the premises and shall be payable in advance per annum to
the City Clerk on or before July 1. For video gaming terminals first installed
or additional terminals installed after July 1 of any year, the total amount of
the fee shall be reduced by 8.33 percent for each calendar month or each part
of a calendar month after July 1 (e.g., for 3 video gaming terminals first
installed on July 3 of any year the total fee would be $75.00 x 91.66 percent,
or $68.75; for 4 additional video gaming terminals installed on September 16 of
any year, the total fee would be $100.00 x 75 percent, or $75.00). No portion
of any City video gaming terminal fee paid shall be refundable for any
reduction in the number of video gaming terminals prior to July 1 of any year.
Every person applying to pay City video gaming terminal fees shall possess and
present to the City Clerk for inspection a valid video gaming terminal
operator's license issued by the State of Illinois. Additionally, if the
premises on which the video gaming terminals are to be located sells or serves
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, such person shall also
possess valid City and State liquor licenses for such premises and shall
present his, her, or its State liquor license to the City Clerk for inspection
at the time of making payment. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
      3.   General Duties Of Establishment Operators: Each establishment
operator has an ongoing duty to:
         a.   Comply with all Federal, State and local laws and regulations;
         b.   Conduct himself, herself, or itself at all times in a
professional manner with the public and City officials and staff; and
         c.   Conduct the establishment operator's video gaming operation in a
manner that does not pose a threat to the public health, safety, morals, good
order or general welfare of the residents of the City.
      4.   Duty To Report: Each establishment operator and persons with
significant influence and control must promptly report all of the following to
the Chief of Police or designee:
         a.   Violation of this subsection A, the Video Gaming Act, 230
Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq.; part 1800, "video gaming", of title
11, subtitle D, chapter 1, of the Illinois Administrative Code; or any illegal
conduct including, but not limited to, the possession, maintenance, or use of
any illegal gaming device;
         b.   Any fact, event, occurrence, matter or action that may affect the
conduct of video gaming or the business and financial arrangements incidental
to the conduct of video gaming, or the ability to conduct any activity on the
premises for which the establishment operator is required to be licensed as a
condition of holding a City video gaming terminal fee, including, but not
limited to, any change in persons identified as having significant influence or
control;
         c.   Each arrest, summons, citation of or each charge for any criminal
offense or violation against the establishment operator or person with
significant interest, excluding minor traffic violations; and
         d.   Any adverse action taken or nonrenewal relative to a State liquor
license.
      5.   Duties Of Establishment Operators As To Terminal Operators: If an
establishment operator contracts for video gaming terminal operations on the
licensed premises, the establishment operator shall have a duty to contract
only with a State licensed video terminal operator who shall be in full
compliance throughout the period of the City video gaming terminal fee with all
applicable Federal and State laws and regulations and, specifically, the duties
of such operator as set out in section 1800.250, subpart B of part 1800, "video
gaming", of title 11, subtitle D, chapter 1, of the Illinois Administrative
Code.
      6.   Duties Of Establishment Operators As To The Licensed Premises: Each
establishment operator shall:
         a.   Provide a secure premises for the placement, operation and play
of video gaming terminals;
         b.   Permit no one to tamper with or interfere with the approved
operation of any video gaming terminal;
         c.   Ensure that all connections with the central communications
system and associated video gaming equipment are at all times maintained and
prevent any person from tampering or interfering with the approved, continuing
operation of the central communications system;
         d.   Accept nothing of value from any video terminal operator or any
agent or representative of any video terminal operator as an incentive or
inducement to locate, keep or maintain video gaming terminals on the licensed
premises;
         e.   Upon a report that a video gaming terminal is malfunctioning,
investigate such immediately, and upon determining that such is true,
immediately post conspicuously on or next to the terminal a notice that the
terminal is out of service and maintain such notice until the terminal is
repaired or removed as required by subsection A6f of this section;
         f.   Immediately remove all video gaming terminals from the restricted
area of play:
            (1)   Upon order of the Illinois Gaming Board or its agent, or
            (2)   That have been out of service or otherwise inoperable for
more than seventy two (72) hours;
         g.   Ensure that video gaming terminals are placed and remain in a
designated, approved restricted area as required by the Video Gaming Act and
the rules and regulations of the Illinois Gaming Board;
         h.   Prevent access to the video gaming terminal area or playing of
video gaming terminals by persons who are under the age of twenty one (21)
years or who are visibly intoxicated;
         i.   Commit no violations of the laws of this State or City ordinances
concerning the sale, dispensing or consumption on premises of alcoholic
beverages that results in suspension or revocation of any liquor license held
by or associated with a licensed premises;
         j.   Maintain at all times an approved method of payout for valid
receipt tickets and pay all valid receipt tickets;
         k.   Extend no form of deferred payment for video gaming terminal play
in which an individual receives something of value now and agrees to repay the
lender in the future for the purpose of wagering at a video gaming terminal;
         l.   Promptly report all malfunctions of video gaming terminals and
all out of service terminals to the video terminal operator and promptly notify
the Illinois Gaming Board of a terminal operator's failure to provide service
and repair of terminals and associated equipment within twenty four (24) hours
after notice to the terminal operator;
         m.   Install, post and display and maintain signs as required by the
Illinois Gaming Board and by this subsection A;
         n.   Promptly notify the Illinois Gaming Board and the City Department
of Police of any unauthorized or illegal video gaming terminals; any video
gaming device that is in violation of section 35 of the Video Gaming Act, 230
Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/35; or any illegal gambling;
         o.   Exercise control over the licensed premises and, in particular,
maintain visibility of the entry into the video terminal area at all times by
one (1) employee who is at least twenty one (21) years of age as required by
the Video Gaming Act;
         p.   Allow maintenance and/or service of video gaming terminals and
associated video gaming equipment only by licensed technicians and licensed
terminal handlers possessing valid identification issued by the Illinois Gaming
Board.
      7.   Grounds For Disciplinary Actions: An establishment operator shall be
subject to disciplinary action by the City for:
         a.   Failing to comply with or make provision for compliance with the
Video Gaming Act; part 1800, "video gaming", of title 11, subtitle D, chapter
1, of the Illinois Administrative Code; this subsection A; any Federal, State
or Local law or regulation; or a control system or protocol mandated by the
Illinois Gaming Board;
         b.   Failing to comply with any order or ruling of the Illinois Gaming
Board or its agents pertaining to the regulation of video gaming in Illinois;
         c.   Revocation or suspension of its State video gaming license, or
failure to have a current State video gaming license;
         d.   Revocation or suspension of its State or City liquor license, or
failure to have a valid State or City liquor license, if the licensed premises
sells or serves alcoholic beverages for consumption on the licensed premises;
         e.   Misrepresentation of any information required to be provided to
the City, the Illinois Gaming Board or the State or State agency;
         f.   Violation of the Video Gaming Act; part 1800, "video gaming", of
title 11, subtitle D, chapter 1, of the Illinois Administrative Code; this
subsection A; any Federal, State or Local law or regulation; or a control
system or protocol mandated by the Illinois Gaming Board by any person
identified as a person with significant influence or control;
         g.   Except as shall be permitted in this subsection A, State, or
Federal law, gambling or the operation of any gambling device by the
establishment operator or any employee or agent thereof on the licensed
premises or by any persons thereon with permission or knowledge of the
establishment operator or any employee or agent of the establishment operator.
      8.   Proceedings On Disciplinary Actions; Sanctions: The City may bring
disciplinary actions against any establishment operator for violations of this
subsection A in any manner authorized by law. Administrative adjudication
proceedings shall be governed by and in accordance with chapter 18,
"Administrative Adjudication", of this Code. The City shall have available to
it all sanctions and remedies authorized by law against an establishment
operator determined to be in violation of this subsection A, including
confiscation of video gaming terminals and/or terminal income, and/or fines.
Fines shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per violation.
Each day that any condition giving rise to a violation of this subsection A
shall continue shall constitute a separate violation. Additionally, in
accordance with 11 Illinois Administrative Code 1800.1110, the City shall
notify the Illinois Gaming Board of charges and sanctions by the City against a
video gaming establishment operator relating to the operation or use of a video
gaming terminal.
   B.   Other Gaming, Gambling And Gambling Devices Prohibited: Video gaming at
licensed establishments is expressly permitted in the City only as authorized
by and as conducted in accordance with the Video Gaming Act, 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq.; part 1800, "video gaming", of title 11,
subtitle D, chapter 1, of the Illinois Administrative Code; and the decisions
and ruling of the Illinois Gaming Board pursuant thereto, and subsection A of
this section. Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize, license
or permit any gambling device, or gaming or gambling in any way contrary to
such statute, regulations, and ordinances, or to any present or future law of
the State of Illinois. (Ord. O-17-010, 5-18-2017)
ARTICLE IV
REGULATION OF SALES
SECTION:
5.401. Consumption On Premises
5.402. Hours Of Operation
5.403. Conditions Of Licensed Premises
5.404. Employees
5.405. Prohibited Conduct
5.406. Sales On Credit Forbidden
5.407. Persons Under Age
5.408. Contributions To Elected Officials Or Local Liquor Control Commission
Members
Sec. 5.401. Consumption On Premises.
   A.   No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale, kept for sale, displayed or
advertised for sale at retail or delivered to any person purchasing same at
retail except at a location, place or premises described in a retail license.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the City.
      2.   A license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only in or from
the premises described in the application and license and only in the manner
therein authorized and in compliance with the terms thereof.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for anyone not having a license providing for
consumption on the premises where sold, to offer for sale, sell or donate any
alcoholic beverage for consumption on any premises open to the general public
or to permit the same to be consumed where sold or donated.
      1.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner, however, may grant a daily
permit 1  to any Class P licensee under this chapter, which permit may
authorize the donation of alcoholic beverages by such licensee for sampling
purposes only in conjunction with sales promotional efforts on the premises of
such licensee and authorized and sponsored by such licensee. No more than
twelve (12) such daily permits shall be issued to any one such licensee during
the period of one year.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to consume or permit the consumption of
alcoholic beverages in public restaurants and/or catering establishments not
having a license for the sale thereof.
   C.   No person, except a manufacturer or distributor or importing
distributor, shall fill or refill, in whole or in part, any original package of
alcoholic liquor with the same or any other kind or quality of alcoholic
liquor, and it shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession for
sale at retail any bottles, casks or other containers containing alcoholic
liquor, except in original packages.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor unless the
manager or other employee of the license holder, having satisfactorily
completed a liquor seller and server education program, shall be present on the
licensed premises, any time liquor is being served or sold except where the
Liquor Commissioner, as provided for in subsection 5.302C3 of this chapter has
excused compliance with the liquor and server training requirement. (Ord. O-15-
028, 12-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5.304 of this chapter.
Sec. 5.402. Hours Of Operation.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor at
retail in the City or to permit any person to consume any alcoholic liquor in
or on any premises for which a license providing for consumption on the
premises has been issued pursuant to this chapter, except during the hours set
forth herein.
      1.   For Class A and A-R licenses:
         Monday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the
following day;
         Tuesday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Wednesday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Thursday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Friday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the
following day;
         Saturday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Sunday: From eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day.
      2.   For Class GS, H, N, and T licenses:
         Monday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the
following day;
         Tuesday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Wednesday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Thursday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Friday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the
following day;
         Saturday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Sunday: From twelve o'clock (12:00) noon until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day.
      3.   For Class E, P, and TG licenses:
         Monday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the
following day;
         Tuesday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Wednesday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Thursday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Friday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the
following day;
         Saturday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Sunday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the
following day.
      4.   For Class O licenses:
         Monday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the
following day;
         Tuesday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Wednesday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Thursday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Friday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the
following day;
         Saturday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Sunday: From ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day.
      5.   For Class B, CA, M, M-R, R, and RVG licenses:
         Monday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the
following day;
         Tuesday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Wednesday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Thursday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Friday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the
following day;
         Saturday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Sunday: From twelve o'clock (12:00) noon until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day.
If the Liquor Commissioner has given the licensee permission, wine or alcoholic
beverages may be sold with meals commencing at ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on
Sunday.
      6.   For Class G licenses:
         Monday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the
following day;
         Tuesday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Wednesday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Thursday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Friday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the
following day;
         Saturday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
the following day;
         Sunday: From six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the
following day.
         On New Year's Eve Day of each year it shall be unlawful to sell or
offer for sale any alcoholic liquor at retail in the City or to permit any
person to consume any alcoholic liquor in or on any premises for which a
license providing for consumption on the premises has been issued pursuant to
this chapter, except between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on New Year's
Eve Day and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the following day.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any premises for which a retail liquor
dealer's license has been issued pursuant to this chapter to keep open for
business or to admit the public to any premises in or on which alcoholic liquor
is sold at retail except during the hours within which the sale of such liquor
is allowed; provided, that retail establishments, restaurants, clubs, and
premises for which a Class O license has been issued may be kept open during
hours when the sale of alcoholic liquor is not allowed, but no alcoholic liquor
may be sold or served to or consumed by the public during such hours. Nothing
contained in this section shall be deemed to authorize any such retail
establishment, restaurant, club or premises to keep open for business or to
admit the public to such premises at or during any hour when such premises are
required to be closed by virtue of the regulations or restrictions imposed by
any other provisions of this Code. (Ord. O-19-006, 4-4-2019)
Sec. 5.403. Conditions Of Licensed Premises.
   A.   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the
storage of such liquor for sale shall be sanitary and shall be kept in full
compliance with the ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for
the storage or sale of food for human consumption 1 . Additionally, if a Class
VG license has been issued for the premises under section
5.304 of this chapter, the premises or the video gaming terminal area shall at
all times be in compliance with subsection
5.313A6 of this chapter, and any violation thereof shall in addition constitute
a violation of this subsection.
   B.   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
sold at retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such
premises to any other portion of the same building or structure used for
dwelling or lodging purposes and which is permitted to be used or kept
accessible for any use of the public. This provision shall not prevent any
connection between such premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his family and personal guests.
   C.   Every licensee shall cause his license or licenses to be framed and
hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises. (Ord. O-15-
028, 12-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 4, article IV of this Code.
Sec. 5.404. Employees.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of any
contagious, infectious or venereal disease, and it shall be unlawful for any
person who is afflicted with or is a carrier of such disease to work in or
about any premises or to be engaged in any way in the handling, preparation or
distribution of such liquor.
   B.   No licensee licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall deny or
permit his agents and employees to deny any person the full and equal enjoyment
of the accommodations, advantages, facilities and privileges of any premises in
which alcoholic liquors are authorized to be sold subject only to the
conditions and limitations established by law and applicable alike to all
citizens. (Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 5.405. Prohibited Conduct.
The following kinds of conduct on premises in the City licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor are prohibited:
   A.   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law.
   B.   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the breasts,
buttocks, anus or genitals.
   C.   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, pubic hair, anus,
vulva or genitals.
   D.   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to public view any portion of his or her genitals
or anus.
   E.   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live performance
of which is prohibited by this section.
   F.   There shall be no automatic amusement device located upon, maintained
in and/or conducted by licensees of premises for which a Class B license has
been issued.
   G.   There shall be no dancing without the premises having first secured a
special use permit from the City pursuant to the terms of the Unified
Development Ordinance 1  of the City.
   H.   There shall be no live music or other entertainment without the
premises having first secured a special use permit from the City pursuant to
the terms of the Unified Development Ordinance 2  of the City. (Ord. O-15-028,
12-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 17 of this Code.
2 1. See chapter 17 of this Code.
Sec. 5.406. Sales On Credit Forbidden.
Other than holders of Class H and Class N licenses with respect to members and
registered guests, no licensee shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail
to any person on credit or on a passbook, or order on a store, or in exchange
for any goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered,
and if any person shall extend credit for such purpose, the debt thereby
attempted to be created shall not be recoverable at law; provided, that nothing
herein shall be construed to prevent payment by credit card. (Ord. O-15-028,
12-17-2015)
Sec. 5.407. Persons Under Age.
   A.   No licensee, nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such establishment operator, shall sell, give or deliver
alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, to any
intoxicated person or to any person known by him or her to be under legal
disability or in need of mental treatment. No person, after purchasing or
otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver such
alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of twenty one (21) except as
provided in subsection C3 of this section. Additionally, if a Class VG has been
issued for the premises under section
5.304 of this chapter, no person under the age of twenty one (21) years,
visibly intoxicated person, or any person known by the licensee or any officer,
associate, member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee to be
under legal disability or in need of mental treatment shall be allowed to play
a video gaming terminal or be within the video gaming terminal area. Whoever
violates the provisions of this subsection is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
      1.   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any
licensee, or his agent or employee, may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages to any person or refuse to permit any person to play a video gaming
terminal or be within the video gaming terminal area who is unable to produce
adequate written evidence of identity and of the fact that he or she is over
the age of twenty one (21) years.
      2.   Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person is a
document issued by a Federal, State, County or Municipal government, or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a driver's or
motor vehicle operator's license, a registration certificate issued under the
Federal Selective Service Act or an identification card issued to a member of
the armed forces. Proof that the licensee, or his employee or agent, demanded,
was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any transaction
forbidden by this section is competent evidence and may be considered in any
proceedings for the suspension or revocation of any license based thereon.
      3.   Any person who sells, gives or furnishes to any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years any fictitious or unlawfully altered driver's license,
as defined in section 6-301.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 ; fraudulent
driver's license; or any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic
evidence of the age and identity of such person, or who sells, gives or
furnishes to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, evidence of
age, any driver's license or identification of any other person shall be deemed
to be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
      4.   A person under the age of twenty one (21) years is guilty of a Class
B misdemeanor if: a) he or she presents or offers to any licensee, or agent or
employee of the licensee, any fictitious or unlawfully altered driver's
license, as defined in section 6-301.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 2 ;
fraudulent driver's license; or other written, printed or photostatic evidence
of age and identity which is false, fraudulent, altered, or not actually his or
her own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase or
otherwise procuring or attempting to procure the serving of any alcoholic
beverage; or for the purpose of play or attempting to play a video gaming
terminal or entering or attempting to enter a video gaming terminal area on the
licensed premises; or b) if he or she has in his or her possession any such
fictitious or unlawfully altered driver's license, fraudulent driver's license
or other false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence of age
and identity while on the licensed premises.
      5.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who has any
alcoholic beverage in his possession on any street or highway or in any public
place or in any place open to the public is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
This subsection does not apply to the possession by a person under the age of
twenty one (21) years making a delivery of an alcoholic beverage container in
connection with his or her employment. It shall be unlawful for any such person
under twenty one (21) years of age as an employee or agent of any licensee to
draw, pour and/or mix alcoholic liquor or to maintain or service any video
gaming terminal or to be within any video gaming terminal area. All delivery or
service must be conducted by persons who have completed Beverage Alcohol
Sellers and Servers Education and Training (BASSET) in accordance with section
5.302.C.3 of the City of Wood Dale Municipal Code.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer's
license, or his agent or employee, to suffer or permit any person under age to
be or remain in any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in
the room or place where such licensed premises is located; provided, that this
subsection shall not apply to any person under age who is accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian or to any licensed premises which derives its principal
business from the sale of service or other commodities than alcoholic liquor in
his possession.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery
of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age to purchase, accept a gift
of such alcoholic liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his possession.
      1.   If a licensee or his agents or employees believes or has reason to
believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because
of the age of the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such sale or
delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification
referenced in subsection A2 of this section, containing proof of age, issued by
a public officer in the performance of his official duties.
      2.   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification
card, use the identification card of another; carry or use false information;
or otherwise misrepresent his age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor or beverage in any tavern or other place in the City where
such alcoholic liquor or beverage is sold. No person shall purchase, accept
delivery, or have possession of alcoholic liquor in violation of this
subsection C. The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under twenty
one (21) years of age is forbidden.
      3.   The possession, dispensing or consumption by a person under twenty
one (21) years of age of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious
service or ceremony, or the consumption by a person under twenty one (21) years
of age under the direct supervision and approval of the parents or parent or
those persons standing in loco parentis of such person under twenty one (21)
years of age in the privacy of a home is not prohibited by this chapter.
   D.   In every tavern or other place in the City where alcoholic liquor is
sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card
which shall be supplied by the Local Liquor Control Commission and which shall
read substantially as follows:
         WARNING TO MINORS
You are subject to a fine up to $500.00 under the ordinance of the City of Wood
Dale if you purchase any alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age for the
purpose of purchasing or obtaining any alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015; amd. Ord. O-20-022, 8-20-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/6-301.1.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/6-301.1.
Sec. 5.408. Contributions To Elected Officials Or Local Liquor Control
Commission Members.
No licensee or applicant for a retail liquor license; any owner, partner,
managing member, officer, stockholder or member of the licensee owning an
aggregate of more than five percent (5%) of the stock of or other ownership
interest in the licensee or applicant; or any manager of the licensee or
applicant shall make any gift, donation, or contribution of money, services,
goods, or other items of value to an elected official of the City or a member
of the Local Liquor Control Commission of the City. (Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015)
ARTICLE V
REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LICENSES
SECTION:
5.501. Revocation Or Suspension Of License
5.502. Complaints
5.503. Penalties Upon Hearing Before The Local Liquor Control Commissioner
Sec. 5.501. Revocation Or Suspension Of License.
   A.   The local liquor control commissioner may revoke or suspend any license
issued by him if he determines that cause exists for such revocation or
suspension by reason that such licensee has:
      1.   Violated any local ordinance or state law; or
      2.   Violated any applicable rules or regulations established by the
local liquor control commission or the state commission; or
      3.   Failed to pay any license fee or any tax imposed on alcoholic liquor
or the sale thereof; or
      4.   Been convicted on a felony charge under the laws of the state of
Illinois or the United States; or
      5.   Been convicted for being the keeper of a house of ill fame; or
      6.   Been convicted for pandering or other crime or misdemeanor opposed
to decency and morality.
   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, no such license shall be
revoked or suspended except after a public hearing before the local liquor
control commissioner, on his own initiative, with or without a sworn complaint
having been filed as set forth in section
5.502 of this article. Such hearing shall not commence sooner than three (3)
days after written notice shall have been personally served upon the licensee
at the licensed premises, affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and
defend. All proceedings before the local liquor control commissioner shall be
recorded and placed in a certified official record of such proceedings taken
and prepared by a certified court reporter.
      1.   If the local liquor control commissioner has reason to believe that
any continued operation of a particular licensed premises will threaten
immediately the welfare of the community, he may, upon the issuance of a
written order stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice or
hearing, order a licensed premises closed for not more than seven (7) days,
giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that period regarding the
suspension or revocation of the license therefor.
In the event that a payment for an initial license fee or a renewal fee is
returned from the financial institution for insufficient funds, the license
shall immediately be suspended in writing by the liquor commissioner, and
notice will be served upon the licensee. No retail sales of any alcoholic
liquor will be conducted after this notice or the licensee will be subject to
revocation of the license. The liquor license will then not be valid until
appropriate payment has been made by cashier's check.
         a.   Such order shall contain notice of the date, time and place of
the hearing thereon, which hearing shall commence not less than three (3) nor
more than seven (7) days from the date of service, personally or by certified
United States mail, of said notice upon the licensee or any employee thereof in
charge of the licensed premises.
         b.   If such licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another
business or businesses on the licensed premises, such initial closing order
shall be not applicable to such other business or businesses.
      2.   The local liquor control commissioner shall, within five (5) days
after such hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license should
be revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason
or reasons for such determination in a written order of revocation or
suspension or fine and shall serve a copy of such order within the five (5)
days upon the licensee.
   C.   In the event of any appeal from an order or action of the local liquor
control commissioner, the appeal to the Illinois liquor control commission
shall be limited to a review of the official record of the proceedings before
said local liquor control commissioner. In such event, the local liquor control
commissioner shall file with the Illinois liquor control commission the
certified official record of the proceedings within five (5) days after notice
of the filing of such an appeal. (Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 5.502. Complaints.
   A.   Any five (5) residents of the city may file a complaint with the local
liquor control commissioner alleging that any licensee has been or is violating
the provisions of this chapter or the rules or regulations issued pursuant
hereto.
      1.   Such complaint shall be in writing, in the form prescribed by the
local liquor control commissioner and shall be signed and sworn to by the
parties complaining.
      2.   The complaint shall state the particular provisions, rule or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
such belief is based.
   B.   If the local liquor control commissioner is satisfied that the
complaint substantially charges a violation and finds probable cause to believe
the same, he shall set the matter for hearing and shall serve notice upon the
licensee of the time and place of such hearing and of the particular charges in
the complaint, such hearing to take place not sooner than three (3) days from
the date upon which such notice is personally served upon the licensee at the
address of the licensed premises. (Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 5.503. Penalties Upon Hearing Before The Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
   A.   After a hearing on any alleged violation, if the Mayor, as Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, finds that there was any violation of the ordinances of
the City or Statutes of the State of Illinois, he or she may revoke any retail
liquor dealer's license, in which case any bond of the licensee shall thereby
be forfeited. In lieu of revocation of the license and forfeiture of bond, the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner may suspend and/or fine such licensee as
follows:
      1.   If the Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines to suspend such
licensee, the term of the suspension shall not be less than one day nor more
than thirty (30) days.
      2.   If the Local Liquor Control Commissioner elects, in addition to or
in lieu of suspension to fine the licensee, the fine shall be assessed for a
first and second violation within a twelve (12) month period as specified in
the master fee schedule.
      3.   For a third violation within any twelve (12) month period, the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner shall not suspend the retail liquor dealer's
license and/or fine the licensee, but shall revoke the license, and any bond of
the licensee shall thereby be forfeited. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   B.   A separate offense shall be deemed to have been committed on each day
during or on which a violation is found to have occurred or continued. (Ord. O-
15-028, 12-17-2015)
ARTICLE VI
VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
5.601. Penalties For Misdemeanor
5.602. Disposition Of Fines And Penalties
Sec. 5.601. Penalties For Misdemeanor.
   A.   It is a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter unless such violation is by this chapter or other law of the State
of Illinois declared to be a felony.
   B.   It is a misdemeanor for any person, firm or corporation to fail to heed
or otherwise ignore any suspension issued by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner or his agent.
   C.   Every person, firm or corporation convicted of a misdemeanor for a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a fine
as specified in the master fee schedule for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed to have been committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 5.602. Disposition Of Fines And Penalties.
For offenses committed within the corporate limits of the City or within the
limits and jurisdiction of the City, fines and penalties recovered under the
provisions of this chapter shall be paid over to the General Fund of the City.
(Ord. O-15-028, 12-17-2015)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
ARTICLE I
GENERAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6.101. Endangering Public Health Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. O-18-002, 2-1-2018)
6.102. Contagious Diseases
6.103. Open Fires
6.104. Dense Smoke Emissions
6.105. Smoking Prohibited In Certain Places
6.106. Spitting
6.107. Cemeteries
6.108. Heating Apartments
6.109. Common Drinking Cups
6.110. Penalty
Sec. 6.101. Endangering Public Health Prohibited.
(Rep. by Ord. O-18-002, 2-1-2018)
Sec. 6.102. Contagious Diseases.
   A.   Report Of Disease Required: Eery person caring for, treating or in
charge of a person afflicted with a contagious or epidemic disease shall make a
report of it within twenty four (24) hours to the Chief of Police. (1976 Code
§12-22)
   B.   Quarantine:
      1.   Authority: The Chief of Police shall have the power and authority to
place any premises within which a contagious or epidemic disease occurs under
quarantine. He shall enforce the rules that determine the termination time of
the quarantine. (1976 Code §12-23)
      2.   Entry Of Food Handlers Upon Quarantined Premises: No person engaged
in the delivery of food or drink intended for human consumption shall enter any
premises quarantined because of the existence of a contagious or epidemic
disease. (1976 Code §12-25)
      3.   Containers Or Bottles In Quarantined Premises: No containers or
bottles shall be removed from any quarantined premises until the termination of
the quarantine, nor shall such bottle or container be again placed in use for
the carrying of food or drink until it has been thoroughly sterilized. (1976
Code §12-26)
   C.   Spreading Disease Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
spread wilfully or carelessly any contagious or epidemic disease or to so cause
the spread of same. (1976 Code §12-24)
Sec. 6.103. Open Fires.
It shall be unlawful to cause, start, have and/or maintain any open fire;
except that this prohibition shall not apply:
   A.   To fires used for cooking food at public or private gatherings; and
   B.   To fires commenced by members of the Wood Dale Fire Protection District
No. 1 Fire Department pursuant to orders of the Chief of the department;
provided, that:
      1.   Such orders pertain to the training of the departmental members in
firefighting techniques;
      2.   Such orders have been given pursuant to authorization granted by the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and further authorization granted by
the City Council;
      3.   At least forty eight (48) hours before commencing any such training
exercise, the Chief or his duly authorized agent notifies the City Manager of
the location and time of such training exercise; and
      4.   The Fire Chief shall cause the removal of all debris from the
location of such exercise and shall oversee the filling in of any open
excavation left as a result thereof. (1976 Code §12-3)
Sec. 6.104. Dense Smoke Emissions.
It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the emission of dense smoke. For the
purpose of testing and grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann Smoke
Chart, as published and used by the United States Geological Survey, shall be
and is hereby adopted as a standard for such grading, and smoke is hereby
defined as dense when it is of a degree of no. 3 of said chart, or greater, for
more than six (6) minutes in any one hour. (1976 Code §12-4)
Sec. 6.105. Smoking Prohibited In Certain Places 1 .
It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke or light a cigarette, cigar or
pipe in the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company Depot
located south of Irving Park Boulevard, at Cedar Street, adjacent to the
commuter parking lot. The City Manager shall cause printed signs, on which the
words "NO SMOKING" shall appear in letters at least four inches (4") high, to
be placed in at least two (2) conspicuous places in the depot.
Any person violating any provision of this section shall be subject to
enforcement as defined in chapter 1, article IV of this Code. (Ord. O-18-024,
7-19-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 14.508H2 of this Code.
Sec. 6.106. Spitting.
It shall be unlawful to spit or expectorate on any public sidewalk or other
public place or on the floor or walls of any store, theater, hall, public
vehicle or other place frequented by the public or to which the public is
invited.
Any person violating any provision of this section shall be subject to
enforcement as defined in chapter 1, article IV of this Code. (Ord. O-18-024,
7-19-2018)
Sec. 6.107. Cemeteries.
It shall be unlawful for any person to establish a cemetery or to bury any
person except in a previously established cemetery. (1976 Code §12-1)
Sec. 6.108. Heating Apartments.
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by the Federal Energy Office, apartment
houses shall be kept at a temperature of not less than sixty eight degrees
Fahrenheit (68°F) between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. each day.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the owner or person in charge of any apartment
house where there is a central heating plant controlled by him to maintain and
provide the required heat during the period between October 1 and April 30 of
each year when needed. (1976 Code §12-2)
Sec. 6.109. Common Drinking Cups.
It shall be unlawful to maintain any common drinking cup, dipper or other
similar utensil in any place frequented by the public. (1976 Code §12-8)
Sec. 6.110. Penalty.
Any person who shall be convicted of violating any provision of this article,
where there is no provision to the contrary, shall be subject to enforcement as
defined in chapter 1, article IV of this Code. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE II
NUISANCES
SECTION:
6.201. Definitions
6.202. Unhealthful Premises
6.203. Stagnant Water
6.204. Obstructing Or Dumping In Watercourses
6.205. Storage Of Inoperable Or Junk Motor Vehicles
6.206. Nuisance Greenery
6.207. Penalty
6.208. Abatement
6.209. Abatement Liens
Sec. 6.201. Definitions.
For the purpose in this section, wherever in this article the following words
and phrases are used, they shall have the meaning respectively ascribed to them
in this section, except when the context of the said words and phrases
otherwise indicate:
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: A vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public
streets for reason including but not limited to being unlicensed, wrecked,
abandoned, in a state of disrepair, or incapable of being moved under its own
power.
NEGLECT: The lack of property maintenance for a building, structure, or
property.
NUISANCE: Any object, condition, or conduct that endangers health and safety,
or unreasonably offends the senses, or obstructs the free use and comfortable
enjoyment of property, or essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment
of life.
STAGNANT: Pertaining to a body of water having no current or flow.
WATERCOURSE: A natural or artificial channel through which water flows. (Ord.
O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 6.202. Unhealthful Premises.
It shall be unlawful to permit any building, structure, or place to remain in
such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health and safety in any way.
Any such structure, building or place is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 6.203. Stagnant Water.
All stagnant accumulation of water is hereby declared to be a nuisance. It
shall be unlawful for any person to permit any such nuisance to remain or exist
on any property. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 6.204. Obstructing Or Dumping In Watercourses.
It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to obstruct or dump in a
watercourse or source of water supply. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 6.205. Storage Of Inoperable Or Junk Motor Vehicles.
   A.   Storage And Parking: Storage and parking of any inoperable motor
vehicle, except when fully enclosed within a garage, shall be declared a
nuisance.
   B.   Exemptions From Provisions: Nothing in this section shall apply to any
motor vehicle on the properly zoned premises of a place of business engaged in
the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 6.206. Nuisance Greenery.
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Any neglected and overgrown weeds, grass or plants;
neglected and overgrown shrubs and trees found growing in any lot or tract of
land are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit
any such nuisance to grow or remain in any such place.
   B.   Restrictions On Growth:
      1.   Weed And Grass Height Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to permit
any weeds or grass to grow to a height exceeding nine inches (9").
      2.   Overgrown Trees, Bushes Grass and Weeds:
         a.   Private Property: It shall be unlawful to permit any trees, OF
bushes, grass or weeds to become neglected and overgrown to the extent, among
other things, they cover windows, doors, sidewalks, driveways and/or encroach
onto other property.
         b.   Public Property: Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk,
street or other public place in such a way to impede or interfere with traffic
or travel on such public place shall be trimmed by the owner and/or occupant of
the abutting premises on which such trees or shrubs grow, so as to remove said
obstruction shall cease. Any limb of a tree or shrub which is likely to fall on
or across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner and/or the
occupant of the premises on which such tree or shrub is located.
         c.   Parkway Maintenance: The owner and/or occupant of any premises
abutting any public street. road or way shall maintain the area between the
edge of pavement or curb and the private property line. commonly known as
parkway, in a neat, clean and orderly condition and in conformance with the
provisions of the city code. If the owner and/or occupant of any such abutting
premises fails to remove limbs or shrubs overhanging any public way or fails to
properly maintain the parkway, such shall be declared a nuisance and enforced
as provided for in the city code.
      If the owner and/or occupant of any such abutting premises fails to
remove limbs or shrubs overhanging any public way or fails to properly maintain
the parkway, such shall be declared a nuisance and enforced as provided for in
the city code.
      3.   Aquatic Weeds: Any aquatic weeds such as duckweed, curly leaf
pondweed, water milfoil or other aquatic weeds of like kind, found growing in
any manmade body of water such as detention or retention ponds or basins or
other stormwater management facilities are hereby declared to be a nuisance,
and it shall be unlawful to permit any such aquatic weeds to grow or remain in
any such place.
   C.   Trees And Shrubs On Private Property: Any tree on private property that
is deemed diseased, dead, dying and/or poses a threat to the health, safety,
and/or welfare of the public or other property shall be declared a nuisance.
(Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017; amd. Ord. O-20-020, 8-6-2020)
Sec. 6.207. Penalty.
Any person who violates, neglects, refuses to comply with, or assists or
participates in any way in the violation of any of provisions or requirements
of this article shall be subject to enforcement as defined in chapter 1,
article IV of this Code, unless otherwise specified. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-
2017)
Sec. 6.208. Abatement.
   A.   Notice To Remove: The Community Development Director or his designee
shall have charge of the operation of the City's Nuisance Abatement Program and
shall cause a visual inspection to be made of all properties in violation of
the provisions of this article. Whenever an inspection discloses the existence
of a violation of any of the regulations contained in this article, the
Community Development Director or his designee shall cause notice to be served
upon the owner or occupant of the premises upon which the violation is found to
exist.
   B.   Abatement: In the event any person notified of a violation pursuant to
this article does not abate a nuisance declared by this article within seven
(7) days, the City may proceed to abate such nuisance, including but not
limited to removal, cutting, trimming or disposal of said nuisance. The City
shall keep an account of the expense incurred in the abatement, which shall be
charged to and paid by such owner or occupant. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 6.209. Abatement Liens.
   A.   Lien Claim: Costs and expenses incurred by the City for its abatement
activities shall be a lien against private property pursuant to section 11-20-
15 of the Illinois Municipal Code, as amended from time to time, and against
abandoned residential property pursuant to section 11-20-15.1 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, as amended from time to time.
   B.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to lien for unpaid nuisance
abatement costs shall be sold for nonpayment of the same pursuant to the
applicable sections of the Code of Civil Procedure, and the proceeds of such
sale shall be applied to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case
in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in equity in
the name of the City.
   C.   Authorization: The City Manager or his designee may authorize any
action, in addition to the above authorized claim for lien, for the collection
of the nuisance removal charges authorized in this article. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-
16-2017)
ARTICLE III
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
6.301. Prohibited Accumulation And Disposal
6.302. Refuse Containers
6.303. Mandatory Collection Of Refuse
6.304. Scavenger Service Rates And Charges; Buildings Containing Not More Than
Two Residential Dwelling Units
6.305. Licensing And Regulation Of Scavengers (Rep. by Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-
2016)
6.306. Vehicle Requirements (Rep. by Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
6.307. Penalty
6.308. Littering Prohibited
6.309. Theft Of Recyclables
6.310. Definitions
Sec. 6.301. Prohibited Accumulation And Disposal.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any uncovered piles of
refuse, garbage, offal or carcasses of dead animals. Such material must be
buried at least two feet (2') below the surface of the ground or burned in
properly constructed incinerators or otherwise properly disposed of. Any
uncovered piles of such material are hereby declared to be a nuisance. (1976
Code §12-9)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage, other than in
incinerators approved by the environmental protection agency of the state of
Illinois, or to bury garbage within the corporate limits of the city, or to
permit garbage and/or debris to accumulate in any manner so as to create a
nuisance or to attract flies, vermin or rats. Any garbage accumulated for more
than seven (7) days, unless interrupted by a legal holiday, shall be considered
a violation of this subsection notwithstanding any other provision herein
contained.
      1.   If the garbage and/or debris referred to hereinabove is allowed to
accumulate for more than seven (7) days or in fact attract flies, vermin or
rats, the health officer of the city may proceed to cause the removal of such
garbage and/or debris from such private property in the following manner:
         a.   Whenever the health officer observes that garbage and/or debris
is attracting flies, vermin or rats, and/or such garbage and/or debris has
accumulated for more than seven (7) days, he shall serve written notice upon
the owner or occupant of any such premises whereon such garbage and/or debris
is located. Such notice shall inform such person of the violation and shall
order removal of said garbage and/or debris within forty eight (48) hours from
the time notice is so served.
         b.   If, after lapse of the aforesaid forty eight (48) hour period,
such owner or occupant of such property refuses or neglects to remove such
garbage and/or debris, the health officer shall cause such garbage and/or
debris to be removed from the said property and shall cause collection from
such owner or occupant, the cost of such removal which shall be paid over to
the city treasurer.
         c.   If, upon receipt of such invoice, such owner or occupant refuses
or neglects to pay the cost for such removal, the health officer, on behalf of
the city or the person performing the service by authority of the city, in his
or its own name, shall file a notice of lien within sixty (60) days after such
cost and expense is incurred, which notice of lien shall be filed in the office
of the DuPage County recorder of deeds, or in the office of the DuPage County
registrar of titles where the real estate affected is registered under the
torrens system. This notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting
out:
            (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof;
            (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense
incurred or payable for the service; and
            (3)   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by
the city.
Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of or persons interested in
such property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released
by the city or person in whose name the lien had been filed, and the release
may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien. The lien may be
enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in case of mortgages or mechanics'
liens. Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within two (2) years
after the date of filing notice of lien; however, the lien of the city shall
not be valid as to any purchaser whose rights in and to such real estate have
arisen subsequent to removal of the garbage and/or debris and prior to the
filing of such notice, and the lien of the city shall not be valid as to any
mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lienor whose rights in and to such real
estate arise prior to the filing of such notice. Nothing hereinabove shall
preclude filing of a complaint with the court of proper jurisdiction for
violations of this subsection and/or other remedies at law or in equity which
may be available to the city for the enforcement of this code. (1976 Code §12-
57)
   C.   No scavenger shall dispose of or store any refuse of any kind within
the city limits or within one and one-half (11/2) miles thereof without the
prior written consent of the city council of the city. (Ord. 2016, 5-18-2000,
eff. 6-22-2000)
Sec. 6.302. Refuse Containers.
   A.   Garbage To Be Wrapped: All garbage and other disposed of animal or
vegetable matter shall be wrapped in paper or in plastic before being placed in
an approved receptacle.
   B.   Approved Receptacles:
      1.   Required: It shall be the duty of every owner, or his agent, or
occupant of all residential premises, including hotels and motels, restaurants
and/or other premises where animal or vegetable matter is prepared or served,
to maintain at all times in good order and repair approved receptacles for
garbage, tin cans, bottles, ashes and other refuse.
      2.   Specifications: Approved receptacles for refuse shall be watertight
and made of plastic or galvanized metal and shall have a tightfitting cover, a
capacity not exceeding thirty five (35) gallons, and suitable handles. In
addition, 4-ply waterproof paper or plastic garbage bags with tie down tops may
be used. (Ord. 2016, 5-18-2000, eff. 6-22-2000)
Sec. 6.303. Mandatory Collection Of Refuse.
   A.   Buildings Containing One Or Two Residential Dwelling Units: At least
one resident of each building containing one or two (2) residential dwelling
units located within the corporate limits of the City must pay the City the
applicable rate set forth in section
6.304 of this article and subscribe to the scavenger service contracted for by
the City for the collection and removal of all refuse generated by the
occupants thereof or otherwise located on the lot occupied by such building.
      1.   On the assigned day for pick up, the subscriber shall place or cause
to be placed at the curb all refuse to be collected. It shall be unlawful for
any person to deposit garbage or refuse or garbage containers or any metal
container in any street, alley or public way except for a period no earlier
than four o’clock (4:00) P.M. the day before scheduled collection, nor later
than eight o’clock (8:00) P.M. the day of collection. At all other times, the
garbage or refuse of any kind or garbage containers or metal containers of any
kind shall be stored in the rear of the premises.
A maximum of two garbage toters that are issued by the City or the scavenger
service provider may be stored in a location other than the rear of the
premises, provided that they are not stored directly in front of an overhead
garage door or the driveway leading to the garage, where the front edge of the
garage has a setback from the street that is similar to, or closer to the
setback of the residence, or on any sidewalk that leads to the front door of a
residence. The installation of a cover, landscaping, or other screening that
minimizes the visibility of the refuse container as one of the most pronounced
elements of the front of the premises would also satisfy this regulation.
Installation of these types of covers, landscaping, or screening must meet any
applicable City Code for installation. Any additional refuse beyond that which
is fully contained within the two issued garbage toters must be stored in the
rear of the residence and is not allowed to be stored at any location in the
front of the premises at any time.
      2.   The City contracted for scavenger service shall remove all refuse,
except as otherwise provided by contract. At their cost and expense,
subscribers shall make arrangements with any other scavenger registered by the
City to secure the removal of items which the City’s contract for scavenger
service will not remove.
      3.   Subscribers shall cause brush, tree trunks and wood to be bundled,
and bundles shall not exceed two inches (2") in diameter and four feet (4') in
length.
      4.   No person shall combine the refuse from two (2) or more residential
dwelling units to be placed in such a manner as to be collected and billed as
though from one residential dwelling unit
   B.   All Other Buildings And Uses: All occupants of premises other than
residential buildings containing not more than two (2) dwelling units shall
make the contractual arrangements with any scavenger registered by the City to
secure the removal of all refuse generated by the occupants thereof or
otherwise located on the lot occupied by such building or use. All apartment
buildings must provide the occupants a central location where refuse is held
for pick up and disposal by a scavenger. (Ord. 2016, 5-18-2000, eff. 6-22-2000;
amd. Ord. O-09-003, 2-5-2009; Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016; Ord. O-22-010, 3-17-
2022; Ord. O-23-017, 6-15-2023)
Sec. 6.304. Scavenger Service Rates And Charges; Buildings Containing Not More
Than Two Residential Dwelling Units.
   A.   Rates And Charges: The monthly rate of scavenger service provided by
the City to subscribers for the collection and removal of all refuse generated
by the occupants of residential dwelling units in buildings containing not more
than two (2) residential dwelling units or refuse otherwise located on the lot
occupied by such building shall be the monthly rate currently charged by the
scavenger service provider plus a monthly administrative charge as specified in
the master fee schedule.
   B.   Application And Provisions For Rate Reduction: Upon written application
of any subscriber whose household income is not more than the very low income
figures established by the income eligibility rates published by HUD effective
July 1, 1979, and as these rates have been and may be revised from time to time
thereafter, as verified by the resident's previous year's United States Federal
Income Tax return, the City Collector shall authorize a reduction as specified
in the master fee schedule; provided, however, that such subscriber provides
annual proof of eligibility and is also a:
      1.   Head of household entitled to and receiving benefits under the
social security act or benefits under other pension plans and is at least sixty
two (62) years of age; or
      2.   Widower or widow having a dependent child or dependent children; or
      3.   Person who is totally disabled; or
      4.   United States military veteran.
Proof of eligibility shall be submitted annually thereafter to said City
Collector. Said rate reduction shall not result in a credit to any user's
account.
   C.   Statements: City statements for scavenger service shall be rendered as
of the first day of each month succeeding the period for which service is
billed and shall be payable upon receipt and not later than the close of
business on the twenty first day of the month the statement is sent. Bills paid
after the said twenty first of the month sent shall be subject to a penalty as
specified in the master fee schedule.
   D.   Termination: The City may terminate scavenger service to any dwelling
unit wherein the subscriber is in arrears to the City for any amount for fifty
(50) or more days. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 6.305. Licensing And Regulation Of Scavengers 1 .
(Rep. by Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 4.502 of this Code.
Sec. 6.306. Vehicle Requirements 1 .
(Rep. by Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
 
Notes
1 2. See section 4.502 of this Code.
Sec. 6.307. Penalty.
   A.   Failure to comply with any regulation contained in this article shall
be deemed a violation thereof. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate
any regulation contained in this article. (Ord. 2016, 5-18-2000, eff. 6-22-
2000)
   B.   Any person who shall be convicted of violating any provision of this
article shall be subject to enforcement as defined in chapter 1, article IV of
this Code. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 6.308. Littering Prohibited.
   A.   Littering Prohibited In Public Places:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit litter in or
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place within the City except in
public receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection or in
official City dumps. The foregoing shall not apply to any person placing litter
(or causing litter to be placed) in proper bundles for collection at the curb
upon the parkway adjacent to private property owned or leased by such person.
      2.   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or
deposit litter upon any street or other public place within the City or upon
private property.
      3.   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this
section shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private
receptacles for collection.
      4.   Unless placing litter in an authorized private receptacle, no person
shall throw or deposit litter on any private property within the City whether
owned by such person or not. Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in
authorized private receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent such
litter from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk or other public or private property.
   B.   Clearing Of Litter From Private Property By The City:
      1.   Notice To Remove: The City Manager is authorized and empowered
hereby to notify the owner of any open private property within the City or the
agent of such owner to properly dispose of litter located on such owner's
property which is dangerous to public health, safety or welfare; such notice
shall be by registered or certified mail addressed to said owner at his last
known address as shown on the records of the collector of taxes of DuPage
County, Illinois.
      2.   Action Upon Noncompliance: Upon the failure and neglect or refusal
of any owner or agent so notified to properly dispose of litter which is
dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare within fifteen (15) days
after receipt of the written notice provided for in subsection B1 of this
section or within ten (10) days after the date of such notice in the event the
same is returned by the Post Office because of its inability to make delivery
thereof, provided the same was properly addressed to the last known address of
such owner or agent. The City Manager is authorized and empowered hereby to
effect the removal and disposal of such litter.
   C.   Dumping Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit
litter upon private property or in any authorized private receptacle located
upon private property whenever such private property is not owned or leased by
such person. (Ord. 1600, 7-18-1991)
   D.   Penalty: Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be
subject to enforcement as defined in chapter 1, article IV of this Code. (Ord.
O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 6.309. Theft Of Recyclables.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, obtain, possess or pick
up any recyclable item placed for collection in front of any residential
structure as part of the City of Wood Dale recycling program, unless said
person is registered as the exclusive recycling contractor under the provisions
of section 4.502 of this Code. (Ord. 1591, 5-17-1991; amd. Ord. O-16-033, 11-
17-2016)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with the terms of
subsection A of this section. Any person found to be in violation of subsection
A of this section shall be subject to enforcement as defined in chapter 1,
article IV of this Code. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 6.310. Definitions.
   A.   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense
include the future tense, words used in the plural number include the singular
and words used in the singular number include the plural number. The word
"shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory. In addition, the
masculine includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words
and their derivations shall have the meanings given hereinbelow:
   APPROVED RECEPTACLE: A container which complies with the regulation
contained in section
6.302 of this article.
   GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, and cooking of food or foodstuffs.
   HUD: The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   LITTER: Refuse and all other material which, if thrown or deposited as
herein prohibited, tends or may tend to create a danger to public health,
safety and welfare.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association or corporation of any
kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: Real estate not under the ownership of any government or
school district.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, any and all public parks, squares, spaces, and grounds, and the
areas of public buildings into which the general public is authorized to
assemble.
   REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes)
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
vehicles, and solid market and industrial wastes, including, but not limited
to:
      1.   High density polyethylene (HDPE) #2 blow molded containers: plastic
milk and water jugs, laundry detergent, shampoo, personal care, and other
similar blow molded containers used inside the home.
      2.   Other high density polyethylene (HDPE) #2 containers: margarine
tubs, baby wipe containers, and other similar molded containers used inside the
home.
      3.   Juice boxes: aseptic cartons consisting of a high grade paperboard
coated with polyethylene plastic and aluminum foil, excluding milk cartons.
      4.   Polyethylene terephthalate (PET #1) blow molded containers: soft
drink, liquor, cooking oil, personal care, and other similar blow molded
containers used inside the home.
      5.   Other polyethylene terephthalate (PET #1) containers: plastic
plates, trays, cups, and other similar ejection molded containers used inside
the home.
      6.   Polypropylene (PP#5): yogurt, cottage cheese and sour cream tubs,
syrup bottles, etc.
      7.   Polystyrene (PS#6) plastic containers: foam packaging peanuts,
drinking cups, plates, carryout containers, egg cartons, meat and produce
trays, and other similar foam materials.
      8.   Polystyrene (PS#6) plastic packaging materials: white and clear
packing grade.
      9.   Polyvinyl/Chloride (PVC #3): health and beauty aid bottles.
      10.   Recyclables (also referred to as recyclable materials): materials
which have a useful second life in the economic cycle if they are successfully
collected, separated, processed, and marketed for return to the economic
mainstream. Recyclable materials shall include aluminum cans, tin/steel/bimetal
cans, colored and clear glass bottles, HDPE, PET and PS, plastic containers #1,
#2 and #6, newspaper, magazines, catalogs, telephone directories, corrugated
cardboard, chipboard, 6-pack rings, and any other items the City and the
contractor agree to recycle in the future.
   RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, trash, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   SCAVENGER: Any person registered by the City who collects refuse and hauls
same away to locations outside of the corporate limits of the City.
   SUBSCRIBER: A resident of a dwelling unit in a one or two (2) residential
dwelling unit building who subscribes to the scavenger service contracted for
by the City. (Ord. 2016, 5-18-2000, eff. 6-22-2000; amd. Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-
2016)
ARTICLE IV
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
6.401. Sound Amplification Devices
6.402. Steam Whistles
Sec. 6.401. Sound Amplification Devices 1 .
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any sound
amplification device by which sounds are projected over any public street or
place without a license. (1976 Code §16-1)
   B.   Application For Device License: Any person desiring a license for the
use or operation of a sound amplification device shall file an application with
the city clerk upon a form provided by him, setting forth his name and address,
the name and address of the owner of the sound amplification device, the date
upon which it is intended to be used and such other information as may be
required. (1976 Code §16-3)
   C.   Issuance Of License; Conditions: A sound amplification device shall be
issued upon the payment of the required fee to the city clerk and shall permit
the use of any such device as regulated by law only upon the dates specified on
the license. (1976 Code §16-4)
   D.   Restriction Of Use Of Sound Amplification Devices: It shall be unlawful
for any person using a sound amplification device to use such device:
      1.   So as to be heard for a distance greater than three hundred feet
(300').
      2.   When passing a hospital.
      3.   When passing a church or other place of worship during the hours
when services are being held.
      4.   When any vehicle he is using is stopped for the purpose of making a
sale.
      5.   Before the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on weekdays and ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. on Sundays or after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on any day.
      6.   Within five hundred feet (500') of any school during the school
year.
This subsection shall not apply to radios in homes or in private pleasure
vehicles when they are operated in a manner as not to be audible at a distance
of fifty feet (50') from such vehicle, nor shall it apply to bands or musical
devices used in any public parade or procession operating under a city permit 2
. (1976 Code §16-5)
   E.   Prohibited Acts and Conditions: No person shall cause or permit to be
emanated or emitted from any sound amplification device any lewd, obscene,
profane or indecent language or sounds, or any false representation of any
matter, or any advertisement for any product or project whose sale is
prohibited. (1976 Code §16-7)
 
Notes
1 1. See also prohibitions set out in subsection 14.508O of this code.
2 1. See chapter 14, article 7 of this code.
Sec. 6.402. Steam Whistles.
It shall be unlawful to blow or cause to be blown or sounded any steam whistle
of any engine except as a signal for starting or stopping work or in
emergencies in order to avoid injury to persons or property. (1976 Code §16-8)
ARTICLE V
COMPREHENSIVE TREE ORDINANCE
SECTION:
6.501. Purpose
6.502. Definitions
6.503. General Provisions
6.504. Public Trees And Shrubs
6.505. Private Trees And Shrubs
6.506. Penalty
Sec. 6.501. Purpose.
Trees, both on public and private property, play a vital role in the well-being
of a community. Trees provide multiple benefits for both the public and private
property owners including enhancing air quality, reducing stormwater run-off,
providing shade, reducing noise pollution, and improving the aesthetics of the
community. This article will provide regulations and requirements to help
maintain a healthy tree canopy. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 6.502. Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
DECIDUOUS: Tree or other plant that sheds all of its leaves according to a
genetically scheduled cycle as impacted by climate factors, usually during the
cold season in temperate zones.
DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (DBH): The diameter of a standing tree measured at
4.5 feet above the ground. This measurement applies to mature trees.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The individual designated by the City Manager to
enforce this article, or his or her designee.
PARKWAY: The area between the edge of the existing paved street or curb and the
property line.
PUBLIC PLACE: An area that is used or intended to be used by the general
public, including but not limited to rights-of-way, parks and playgrounds.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any property owned by a governmental entity, including but not
limited to the City, township, County, special districts (such as the Library
District, Fire Protection District, School District, etc.) and the State or
Federal government.
PUBLIC TREE: Trees now or hereafter growing within a right-of-way or on any
property owned or maintained by the City.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: An area of land not on a lot that is dedicated for public or
private use to accommodate a transportation system and necessary public utility
infrastructure (including but not limited to water lines, sewer lines, power
lines and gas lines). In no case shall a right-of-way be construed to mean an
easement. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 6.503. General Provisions.
   A.   Trees Permitted:
      1.   Public trees and trees required by section
17.606 of this Code shall be selected from the list of approved tree species
approved by the Director of Public Works.
      2.   A list of said approved trees shall be kept on file with the City
and reviewed annually to ensure a variety of tree species are being planted and
no species on said list are susceptible to common diseases.
   B.   Prohibited Trees:
      1.   A list of trees that are prohibited from being planted on public
property or on private property meeting the requirements of section
17.606 of this Code shall be approved by the Public Works Director and kept on
file with the City.
      2.   The list of said prohibited trees shall be reviewed annually to
ensure that the list includes species that are considered susceptible to
disease or undesirable.
   C.   Tree Planting Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Size For Public Trees And Trees Required By Section
17.606 Of This Code:
         a.   When planted, deciduous trees shall have a minimum size of two
inches (2") in diameter at breast height (DBH), except as otherwise specified.
         b.   When planted, coniferous trees shall be a minimum six feet (6')
in height.
      2.   Shape: When planted, trees shall have a continuous single straight
trunk and shall be free from deformity and indication of undesirable growth
characteristics.
      3.   Quality: When planted, trees shall be free of infectious diseases or
insect infestations.
      4.   ANSI Requirements: All trees must meet requirements as listed in the
American Standard for Nursery Stock (ANSI Z60.1-2004) latest edition.
   D.   Prohibited Locations:
      1.   The planting of trees is prohibited if such planting will interfere
with existing utilities.
      2.   The planting of trees is prohibited if such planting will interfere
with traffic, usual use of public property, impact a right-of-way or have an
adverse impact on motorist and pedestrian safety.
      3.   Trees shall not be planted within the sight triangle as defined in
subsection
17.601P of this Code to ensure adequate intersection visibility in accordance
with subsection
17.606C3r of this Code.
   E.   Nuisance Trees: Any tree diseased, dead, or otherwise declared a
nuisance in accordance with article II of this chapter shall be promptly
removed and disposed of in accordance with article II of this chapter. Removal
of public trees under this provision requires approval of the Public Works
Director.
   F.   Interference: It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or
interfere with the Public Works Director, or any of the City's agents, while
engaging in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying,
or removing of any public trees or trees on private property, as authorized in
this article. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 6.504. Public Trees And Shrubs.
   A.   Authority And Supervision: The Director of Public Works is hereby
empowered to superintend and direct the planting, preservation, protection,
maintenance and removal of public trees and other vegetation in accordance with
this article and chapter 17 of this Code.
   B.   General Provisions:
      1.   Damage To Public Trees And Shrubs Prohibited:
         a.   Utilities: Any person maintaining any utility lines in the
streets or other public places shall take proper care to avoid causing injury
to the roots of any tree or shrub.
         b.   Excavations: When excavating in the right-of-way or other public
places, proper care shall be taken to avoid causing injury to the roots of any
tree or shrub.
         c.   Damage: Except as otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful to
injure, including but not limited to removing, destroying, breaking, cutting,
defacing or injuring or interfering with the growth, of any tree or shrub
planted in any public place.
      2.   Spraying Of Public Trees:
         a.   Spraying of public trees for the prevention and elimination of
disease and insect infestation shall be performed to meet the specific
requirements of the species of tree and the particular disease of insect
infestation which exists or threatens as set forth by the Director of Public
Works.
         b.   It shall be the Director of Public Works' responsibility to
determine the need and extent of spraying requirements for public trees.
      3.   Tree Trimmers And Sprayers:
         a.   Permission Required: No tree trimmer or sprayer shall trim or
spray any public tree without the permission of the Director of Public Works.
         b.   Certification: All tree trimmer and sprayer contractors must be
certified arborists provided by the International Society of Arboriculture.
   C.   Planting Public Trees And Shrubs:
      1.   Authority To Plant:
         a.   No person other than the City shall plant public trees and shrubs
except as otherwise authorized by the Director of Public Works either through a
contract or in accordance with section
17.606 of this Code.
         b.   The Director of Public Works shall be solely responsible for
selecting tree species and planting locations that are in the best interest of
the City.
      2.   Planting Requirements:
         a.   Parkways: It is the intention of the City to plant public trees
in all parkways, where space permits. The City will plant new and replacement
public trees in accordance with the forestry program budgeted annually.
         b.   Planting Line: Public trees in parkways should be planted on the
centerline of the parkway or as approved by the Public Works Director.
         c.   Guidelines: All planting and transplanting of public trees must
adhere to the guidelines found in the latest editions of Principles and
Practices of Planting Trees and Shrubs and the latest edition of the
International Society of Arboriculture and American National Standards
Institute for Tree Care Operations - Transplanting (ANSI A300).
         d.   Spacing:
            (1)   New Trees: All new trees planted in parkways shall meet the
following minimum and maximum footage between trees, where possible:
 
Tree Size1             Minimum Space Maximum Space
Large (over 40 feet)   35 feet       70 feet
Medium (up to 40 feet) 25 feet       50 feet
Small (up to 20 feet)  15 feet       40 feet
 
      Note:
         1.    Tree size refers to the mature height of the tree species.
            (2)   Existing Trees: Spacing of existing trees shall be brought
into conformance with the above table through normal attrition and gradual
planned removal of undesirable trees.
   D.   Removal And Replacement Of Undesirable Trees:
      1.   All crippled, deformed, physically damaged, dead or dying trees,
regardless of species, shall be removed and replaced with approved trees.
      2.   All trees infected with non-curable disease that professional
opinion indicates will result in death, deformation or the infection of other
trees shall be immediately removed and replaced with approved trees.
   E.   Protecting Public Trees:
      1.   Protection During Construction: During any type of construction
work, the owner or contractor shall erect a chain- link fence at the edge of
any nearby public tree's dripline to prevent injury to them.
      2.   Attaching Wires To Trees: No person shall attach or connect any
electric or other wire to any public tree nor permit any such wire to come in
contact with a public tree.
      3.   Posting Signs On Trees: No person shall attach any sign, placard, or
poster to any public tree in accordance with section 13.401 of this Code.
      4.   Impeding Water And Air: No person shall place or maintain upon the
ground around a public tree any surfacing or material which will impede free
passage of water and air to the roots without leaving an open space of not less
than two feet (2') in width all around the tree.
      5.   Excavations: No person shall raise the grade around the existing
public trees without the approval of the Director of Public Works. (Ord. O-17-
024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 6.505. Private Trees And Shrubs.
   A.   It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or occupying real
property on which there are trees, to prune such trees in such manner that they
will not obstruct or shade street lights, obstruct the passage of pedestrians
on sidewalks, obstruct vision of traffic signs, or obstruct views of any street
or alley intersection. Trimming and pruning shall be carried out in accordance
with the standards set forth in the latest edition of the American National
Standard Institute for Tree Care Operations (ANSI A300).
   B.   It shall be the duty of any person owning or occupying real property on
which there are trees that are diseased or insect infested, to control and
eliminate diseased or infested trees.
      1.   General Standards: Control and elimination of diseased or infested
trees shall be done in a manner that minimizes the risks to other plant, wild
or human life.
      2.   USDA - APHIS: The control and elimination of a specific disease
should be done in accordance with the regulations and requirements set forth by
the United States Department of Agriculture - Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Services (USDA - APHIS) for said specific disease.
      3.   Director's Discretion: If the USDA - APHIS has not published
regulations and requirements for the control and elimination for said disease,
the Director of Public Works in his sole discretion shall identify appropriate
remedies.
      4.   Notification Required: Spraying of private trees for the prevention
and elimination of disease and infestation shall be performed upon notification
and approval by the Director of Public Works.
   C.   The removal of trees on private property shall be in accordance with
section 17.606 of this Code.
   D.   Development of private property shall plant landscaping and trees in
accordance with section 17.606 of this Code. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 6.506. Penalty.
Any person who violates, neglects, refuses to comply with, or assists or
participates in any way in the violation of any of the provisions or
requirements of this article shall be subject to enforcement as defined in
chapter 1, article IV of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
A separate offense shall be deemed to have been committed for each tree or
shrub injured, damaged, and/or removed in violation of this article. (Ord. O-
17-024, 11-16-2017)
ARTICLE VI
RESERVED
(Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
ARTICLE VII
RESERVED
(Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
ARTICLE VIII
RESERVED
(Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
ARTICLE IX
RESERVED
(Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
ARTICLE X
NURSING HOMES
SECTION:
6.1001. Definition
6.1002. License Required
6.1003. Building Regulations
6.1004. Sanitary Conditions
6.1005. Dangerous Conditions
Sec. 6.1001. Definition.
For the purpose of this article, the term "nursing home" shall mean any private
institution, place or family used for the reception or care, for a period
longer than twenty four (24) hours, of three (3) or more children or infants
apart from their parents, or any private institution, place or facility used
for the reception or care of three (3) persons who are dependent or not capable
of properly caring for themselves, including private homes for the aged or
infirm, orphan asylums, refuges and shelters and boarding homes caring for
three (3) or more women with their children when the children are less than
fourteen (14) years of age. It shall not include any association or any
institution for the care of children which has been accredited, certified or
licensed by the state pursuant to an act of the legislature to regulate the
treatment and control of dependent, neglected and delinquent children. (1976
Code §13-411)
Sec. 6.1002. License Required.
No person shall operate a nursing home within the corporate limits of the city
except in compliance with the provisions of this article. It shall be unlawful
to operate a nursing home within the city unless such person has applied for
and has obtained a license from the city clerk. (Ord. 1204, 10-7-1982)
Sec. 6.1003. Building Regulations.
   A.   Ventilation And Space Requirements:
      1.   In every nursing home, each room occupied or to be occupied by
inmates shall be of such dimensions as shall be of such dimensions as shall
give each inmate not less than four hundred (400) cubic feet of air space.
Every such room shall have at least one window connecting with the external air
for each four (4) beds. The window shall be of such dimensions as shall secure
to each inmate at least one thousand five hundred (1,500) cubic feet of fresh
air per hour by ventilation; in case such window does not secure one thousand
five hundred (1,500) cubic feet of fresh air per hour by natural ventilation,
then each room shall, in addition thereto, be fitted with such appliances for
ventilation as shall secure to each inmate in said room at least one thousand
five hundred (1,500) cubic feet of fresh air per hour.
      2.   Each bed shall have at least forty (40) square feet of floor space,
and in every room or dormitory containing more than one bed, the beds shall be
so arranged as to leave a passageway of not less than two feet (2')
horizontally on all sides of such bed. (1976 Code §13-414)
   B.   Halls; Fire Escapes; Exits: The halls of each floor of a nursing home
shall be open to the external air with suitable windows and shall have no room
or other obstruction at the end thereof, unless sufficient light and
ventilation is otherwise provided for such halls, and the building as a whole
shall be provided with adequate and proper fire escapes, stairways or inclines
for exits. (1976 Code §13-416)
   C.   Basement Floor: The floor of the cellar or basement in the building
used as a home shall be properly cemented so as to be watertight. (1976 Code
§13-415)
Sec. 6.1004. Sanitary Conditions.
   A.   Water Supply: Each ward or wing of a nursing home shall have running
water furnished in one or more places, either in said ward or convenient
thereto, so that the same is adequate and convenient to the occupants thereof.
(1976 Code §13-415)
   B.   Fly Control: All nursing homes, including culinary departments, dining
rooms, laundry, laboratory, morgue and postmortem rooms connected with them,
shall be equipped from May 15 to November 15 with doors, screens and other
appliances necessary for the exclusion of flies. (1976 Code §13-417)
Sec. 6.1005. Dangerous Conditions.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to close the nursing home and cause
its vacation pending the repairs, alterations or additions necessary to make it
safe and proper for the occupancy of its inmates and in compliance with the
law. (1976 Code §13-418)
ARTICLE XI
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6.1101. Construction, Maintenance And Repair
6.1102. Obstructions On Public Ways
6.1103. Utility Poles And Wires
6.1104. Stairways And Openings In Public Ways
6.1105. Driveways
6.1106. Prohibited Acts And Conditions
6.1107. Adopt-A-Highway Program
Sec. 6.1101. Construction, Maintenance And Repair.
   A.   Construction Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any
pavement on any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to
repair the same without a permit.
      2.   Application For Permit: Applications for such permits shall be made
to the City Clerk and shall state the location of the intended pavement or
repair, the extent thereof and who is to do the actual construction work. (1976
Code §25-5)
      3.   Bond Or Insurance: Each applicant shall file a bond or policy, in
the amount as specified in the master fee schedule, with sureties to be
approved by the Council, conditioned to indemnify the City from any loss or
damage resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of doing the same.
(Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
      4.   Issuance Of Permit: No such permit shall be issued except on order
of the Council. (1976 Code §25-5)
   B.   Barricades And Lights:
      1.   Barricades And Lights Required:
         a.   Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk
or other public place, or making an excavation in the same 1 , shall maintain
suitable barricades to prevent injury of people or vehicles by reason of the
work; such barricades shall be protected by suitable lights at nighttime. (1976
Code §25-6)
         b.   All defects in pavements of streets, sidewalks or other public
places shall be barricaded. (1976 Code §25-7)
      2.   Disturbing Barricades And Lights Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to
disturb or interfere with any barricades or lights lawfully placed to protect
or mark any new pavement or excavation or opening in any public street, alley
or sidewalk. (1976 Code §25-9)
 
Notes
1 1. See article XII of this chapter.
Sec. 6.1102. Obstructions On Public Ways.
   A.   Prohibited Generally: No person shall cause, create or maintain any
obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way, except as may
be specifically authorized by law or by the Public Works Director.
   B.   Obstruction Of Drains: It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in
any public street, right-of-way or alley.
   C.   Report Of Defects And Obstructions: It shall be the duty of every City
officer or employee upon becoming cognizant of any defect in any street, alley
or sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof, to report the same to the Public Works
Director as soon as possible.
   D.   Obstruction By Maintenance Activity: It shall be unlawful for an
individual to conduct any servicing, repairing, assembling, modifying,
restoring or similar activity of any cars, trucks, trailers, lawnmowers, A TVs,
snowmobiles, jet skis or any other self-propelled vehicles, machines or
equipment that occurs on any residentially designated public street, right-of-
way, apron or thoroughfare. Except for emergency vehicle repair work where the
vehicle is inoperable and incapable of being relocated for the necessary
repairs, all maintenance, including oil changes, tire repair, small parts
change, minor routine maintenance and the like, shall only be permissible on
residential premises or garages. At no time may repairs be made on any lawn,
sidewalk, apron, planting strip or street. Offenders shall be subject to a
monetary sanction provided for in Section
18.207 of this Code, in addition to any other penalty specifically provided for
in the master fee schedule. (1976 Code §§ 25-12 through 25-14; amd. Ord. O-18-
003, 2-1-2018; Ord. O-23-015, 6-15-2023)
Sec. 6.1103. Utility Poles And Wires.
It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or to maintain any poles or
wires over any public place, street, alley or other public way without first
having secured permission from the Council. (1976 Code §25-15)
Sec. 6.1104. Stairways And Openings In Public Ways.
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any opening or stairway in any
public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place without a permit from the
Council. All such lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable
strong cover or railing approved by the Public Works Director. (1976 Code §25-
22; amd. Ord. O-18-003, 2-1-2018)
Sec. 6.1105. Driveways.
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: No person shall construct a driveway for
vehicles or animals across any sidewalk without compliance with the Building
Code 1 .
   B.   Repair: It shall be the duty of the person owning any driveway to keep
the same in good maintenance and repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free
from obstructions and openings. (Ord. 1424, 10-1-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 12 of this Code.
Sec. 6.1106. Prohibited Acts And Conditions.
   A.   Damage Or Injury To Pavements:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle upon any
newly laid street or alley pavement while the same is guarded by a warning sign
or barricade. (1976 Code §25-10)
      2.   It shall be unlawful to injure knowingly any street, sidewalk, or
alley pavement or cause dirt, mud, gravel, or any litter to be scattered or
thrown thereon. In connection with the foregoing, in order to assure the
cleanliness of public roadways during all seasons and to ensure safe and
sanitary conditions, it shall be the duty of any permittee undertaking work
pursuant to his permit to cause the removal of any and all dirt and debris
which accumulates upon any roadway as a result of the work undertaken pursuant
to such permit. In addition, when deemed necessary by the Building
Administrator in order to clean tires before vehicles leave the construction
site and enter upon an adjacent roadway, any given permittee shall install a
tire-cleaning facility upon the property whereon any building construction work
is being done, whether such property contains existing residential, industrial,
or commercial structures, or is undergoing entirely new construction. The fact
that the Building Administrator may deem such tire-cleaning facility
unnecessary will not relieve the permittee from the duty imposed by this
subsection A2. Such tire-cleaning facility may consist of a manually operated
water hose with a nozzle or any other artifact or machinery which eliminates
mud and dirt from vehicle tires. (Ord. 1814, 8-17-1995)
   B.   Articles On Windows: It shall be unlawful to place any movable article
on any window ledge or other place abutting on a public street, alley or other
public place at a height above four feet (4') from the ground in such a manner
that the same can be or is in danger or falling onto such street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place. (1976 Code §25-17)
   C.   Scaffolds: Any scaffolds or ladders placed in such a position that they
overhang or can fall onto any public street, alley or other public place shall
be firmly and properly constructed and safeguarded, and it shall be unlawful to
place or leave any tools or articles on any such place in such a manner that
the same can fall onto any such street, sidewalk, alley or other public place
from a height greater than four feet (4'). (1976 Code §25-18)
   D.   Draining Water Onto Public Ways: It shall be unlawful to construct or
permit the construction of any stormwater drain which discharges water onto any
street or sidewalk in the City. (1976 Code §25-19)
   E.   Depositing Snow In Streets: It shall be unlawful for any citizen or
person under his direction and control in the process of removing or plowing
snow from a private driveway, sidewalk or private property to deposit same into
any street, alley or public way. (1976 Code §25-20)
   F.   Merchandise For Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to use any
street, sidewalk or other public place as space for the display of goods or
merchandise for sale. (1976 Code §25-21)
Sec. 6.1107. Adopt-A-Highway Program.
In accord with Public Act 87-1118, there is established hereby an Adopt-A-
Highway Program within the corporate limits of the City.
   A.   The Director of City Services is designated hereby as the Adopt-A-
Highway Program Coordinator for the City. The aforesaid Director of City
Services is authorized hereby to execute such Adopt-A-Highway Program
agreements from time to time in form as approved by the City Attorney.
   B.   The following streets are designated hereby as streets to be considered
for such Adopt-A-Highway Program agreements from time to time:
      Irving Park Road (Prospect Avenue to Wood Dale Road, and Wood Dale Road
to Edgewood Avenue);
      Elizabeth Drive (Wood Dale Road to Addison Road);
      Potter Street (Central Avenue to Spruce Avenue);
      Prospect Avenue (Irving Park Road to Mary Jane Lane);
      Central Avenue (Potter Street to Ethel Street);
      Foster Avenue (Central Avenue to Spruce Avenue);
      George Street and Station Drive;
      Third Avenue (permission of Addison Township would be needed for portions
outside of Wood Dale corporate limits);
      Streets in office and industrial areas, including Mittel Drive, Central
Avenue, Edgewood Avenue, Sivert Drive, Lively Boulevard, Dillon Drive, etc.
(Ord. 1786, 4-6-1995)
ARTICLE XII
EXCAVATIONS OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION:
6.1201. Permit Requirements And Exceptions
6.1202. Compliance With Permit Provisions
6.1203. Damage To Property Prohibited; Precautions During Construction
6.1204. Completion Of Construction
6.1205. Restoration Following Construction
Sec. 6.1201. Permit Requirements And Exceptions.
   A.   Excavating Permit Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to tunnel under or to make an
open excavation in any street, alley or other public place (hereinafter
referred to as "public right-of-way") without an excavation permit.
      2.   Pursuant to an excavation permit, it shall be unlawful for any
person to undertake work contrary to the regulations contained in this article.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Applications for excavation permit shall be made in duplicate upon
forms to be provided by the City to the City Building Administrator and shall
describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof,
the purpose therefor, the person doing the actual excavating work, the person
for whom the work is being done; shall contain an agreement that the applicant
will comply with all laws and ordinances relating to the work to be done; and
shall be accompanied by drawings, plans and specifications in sufficient detail
to demonstrate:
         a.   That the facilities installed pursuant to such excavation permit
will be constructed in accordance with all applicable codes, rules and
regulations.
         b.   The location and route of all facilities to be installed on
existing utility poles.
         c.   The location and route of all facilities to be located under the
surface of the ground, including the line and grade proposed for the burial at
all points along the route which are within the public rights-of-way.
         d.   The location of all existing underground utilities, conduits,
ducts, pipes, mains and installations which are within the public right-of-way.
         e.   The construction methods to be employed for protection of
existing structures, fixtures, and facilities within or adjacent to the public
rights-of-way along the route proposed by the applicant.
         f.   The location, dimension and types of all trees within or adjacent
to the public rights-of-way along the route proposed by the applicant, together
with a landscape plan for protecting, trimming, removing, replacing and
restoring any trees or areas to be disturbed during construction.
      2.   Each application for an excavation permit shall state the length of
time it is estimated will elapse from the commencement of the work until the
restoration of the surface of the ground or until the refill is made ready for
repavement or restoration of such surface. It shall be unlawful to fail to
complete the work within the estimated time lapse unless permission for an
extension of time is granted by the City Council.
      3.   All permit applications shall be accompanied by a traffic control
plan demonstrating the protective measures and devices that will be employed,
consistent with "Uniform Manual On Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury
or damage to persons or property and to minimize disruptions to efficient
pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
      4.   All permit applications shall be accompanied by the certification of
a registered professional engineer that the drawings, plans and specifications
submitted with the application comply with applicable technical codes, rules
and regulations.
      5.   Upon receipt of an application, the Building Administrator shall
forward one copy thereof to the City Engineer who shall calculate and render in
writing his estimate of the cost of repairing and restoring to its original
condition the public right-of-way following the work for which application for
permit is made. (Ord. 1886, 6-5-1997)
   C.   Permit Fee: The excavation permit fee shall be as specified in the
master fee schedule.
   D.   Bond And Indemnification: The owner of the facilities to be constructed
and the permittee are responsible jointly and severally for performance of the
work in compliance with all provisions of this article.
      1.   Bond: Accordingly, no excavation permit shall be issued unless and
until the applicant therefor has filed with the City Building Administrator a
bond to guarantee the restoration of the public right-of-way by the permittee
following completion of the work which necessitated the tunneling under or
opening of the public right-of-way. Such bond shall be in an amount as
specified in the master fee schedule of the engineer's estimate of the costs of
repairing and restoring the public right-of-way and shall be deposited with the
City for a period of two (2) years in order to assure the City that the
permittee will comply with the requirements of this article and that the
excavation will be properly barricaded and that the surface of the public
right-of-way will be restored to its condition prior to constructing any such
tunnel or excavation. Such bond may be in the form of a cash bond or letter of
credit, provided the form of the latter meets the approval of the City
Attorney. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
         a.   The amount of said bond shall act as a guarantee of the
installation and construction of the restoration work (hereinafter referred to
as "improvements") as well as a guarantee of the said maintenance of said
improvements including a guarantee of the materials and workmanship involved in
the construction thereof.
         b.   The bond shall remain in full force and effect for the above
purposes for the period of twenty four (24) months from the date of completion
of the improvements and, in the case of a letter of credit, an additional
period of twenty (20) days after notice of expiration has been provided by the
bank to the City Clerk. In the event of insolvency of the contractor at any
time while this bond is in effect and/or in the event of receipt of such notice
of expiration, if the improvements are not completed and/or if an adequate cash
deposit has not been substituted for such letter of credit in order to
guarantee the installation and materials and workmanship of the improvements,
the City shall have an additional twenty (20) days within which it may make an
election: 1) it may elect to complete or cause the completion of the aforesaid
improvements; or 2) the City may elect to accept the improvements, if
completed. If such election to complete the improvements is so made by the
City, it shall be by notice to the bank within the said additional twenty (20)
day period, and within seven (7) days of the receipt of said notice the bank
shall disburse to the City. All unexpended funds remaining in such letter of
credit shall be used by the City for payment of the costs of such completion
and construction of the improvements, if the installation is incomplete.
Thereafter, the obligations of the bank under such letter of credit shall
cease. In the case of a cash deposit, if such election to complete the
improvements is made by the City, the City shall utilize such remaining funds
on deposit as are necessary for payment of the costs of such completion and
construction of the improvements, and maintenance thereof for said two (2) year
period following such completion.
         c.   For purposes hereof, such "insolvency of the contractor" shall be
deemed to have occurred if the contractor shall: 1) admit in writing its
inability to pay its debts generally as they become due; 2) have an order for
relief entered in any case commenced by or against it under the Federal
bankruptcy laws, as not or hereafter in effect; 3) commence a proceeding under
any other Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other
similar law, or have such a proceeding commenced against it and either have an
order or insolvency or reorganization entered against it or have the proceeding
remain undismissed and unstayed for sixty (60) days; 4) make a general
assignment for the benefit of its creditors; 5) petition for or consent to the
appointment of a receiver, custodian, trustee or liquidator of itself or of the
whole or any substantial part of its property; and/or 6) cease to install the
improvements for a period of more than six (6) months.
         d.   Upon lapse of the aforesaid two (2) year period following
completion of the work of repairing and restoring the public right-of-way,
unexpended amounts of such bond shall be returned promptly to the person who
deposited same with the City.
      2.   Indemnification:
         a.   As a condition of the issuance of the excavation permit, the
permittee shall indemnify, save harmless, and defend the City against any loss,
liability or damage or threat of loss, liability, and/or damage that may result
from or arise because of the excavation, permit and/or, the tunneling under or
open excavation of any public right-of-way.
         b.   The permittee shall at all times, and under all circumstances,
indemnify, protect, and save harmless the City, its grantees, licensees,
agents, lessees and invitees, from and against any and all damages, losses,
claims, demands, actions and causes of action whatsoever (including any
reasonable costs, expenses and attorney fees which may be incurred in
connection therewith), whether or not the claim, demand, or action asserted be
meritorious, which results from or is alleged to arise out of or in connection
with, the installation, construction, reconstruction, operation, maintenance,
alteration, repair, replacement, removal or existence of the facilities upon
the street, or the existence of the permit granted permittee herein; provided,
however, that in the event any such claim, damage, loss, demand, action, or
cause of action is asserted against the grantor, or its agents, grantor shall
furnish grantee with written notification thereof and grantee shall conduct the
defense thereof before any court, board, commission or other governmental body
exercising jurisdiction therein. No settlement or compromise of any such claim,
damage, loss, demand, action or cause of action against grantor shall be made
unless agreed to by grantor.
   E.   Issuance Of Permit: Within forty five (45) days after submission of all
plans and documents required of the applicant and payment of the permit fees
required by this chapter, the Building Administrator, if satisfied that the
application, plans, and engineer's certification comply with all of the
requirements of this chapter, shall issue a permit authorizing excavation of
the public right-of-way, subject to such further conditions, restrictions, or
regulations affecting the time, place, and manner of performing the work as he
may deem necessary or appropriate.
   F.   Permit Exceptions: The provisions of this section relative to securing
a permit shall not apply to persons engaged in doing work for the City nor to
persons operating under a City franchise or grant if such franchise provides
for the making of excavations and tunnels without securing a permit therefor.
(Ord. 1886, 6-5-1997)
Sec. 6.1202. Compliance With Permit Provisions.
It shall be unlawful to make any excavation or tunnel in any way contrary to or
at variance with the terms of the permit issued therefor.
   A.   All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance with
the permit and approved final plans and specifications for the facilities. The
City Engineer and the Building Administrator and their representatives shall be
provided access to the work and such further information as he or she may
require to ensure compliance with such requirements. Notice shall be given to
the City Engineer and the Building Administrator at least twenty four (24)
hours before the work of refilling any such excavation or tunnel commences.
   B.   If the excavation permit specifies the location of facilities by depth,
line, grade, proximity to other facilities or other standard, the permittee
shall cause the location of such facilities to be verified by a registered
Illinois land surveyor.
      1.   The permittee shall relocate any facilities constructed which are
not located in compliance with permit requirements.
      2.   Proper bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of
adjoining ground, and in excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere
below the surface any portion which extends beyond the opening of the surface.
   C.   Upon order of the City Engineer, all work which does not comply with
the permit, the approved plans and specifications for the work, or the
requirements of this chapter, shall be removed. (Ord. 1886, 6-5-1997)
Sec. 6.1203. Damage To Property Prohibited; Precautions During Construction.
   A.   Utility Pipes, Cables And Conduits: No injury shall be done to any
pipes, cables or conduits in the making of such excavations or tunnel; and
notice shall be given to the persons maintaining any such pipes, cables or
conduits, when such pipes, cables or conduits may be endangered or affected by
the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes, cables or
conduits can be disturbed.
   B.   Trees And Shrubs: No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any
tree or shrub or the roots thereof.
   C.   Temporary Sidewalks: If any sidewalk is blocked by any excavation work,
a temporary sidewalk shall be constructed or provided which shall be safe for
travel and convenient for users.
   D.   Barricades And Lights: Any person maintaining any opening or excavation
in any street, sidewalk or other public place shall guard such opening or
excavation while the same remains open by proper barricades and lights. (Ord.
1886, 6-5-1997)
Sec. 6.1204. Completion Of Construction.
The permittee shall promptly complete all construction activities so as to
minimize disruption of the City ways and other public and private property.
   A.   All construction work authorized by a permit within City ways,
including restoration, must be completed within one hundred twenty (120) days
of the date of issuance.
   B.   Within sixty (60) days after completion of construction, the permittee
shall furnish the City with two (2) complete sets of plans, drawn to scale and
certified to the City as accurately depicting the location of all facilities
constructed pursuant to the permit. The City may require that the information
be provided in an electronic digitized format, the specifications of which will
be determined by the City. (Ord. 1886, 6-5-1997)
Sec. 6.1205. Restoration Following Construction.
Upon completion of work, the permittee shall promptly repair any and all public
and private property improvements, fixtures, structures and landscaping in and
about the public rights-of-way or otherwise damaged during the course of
construction, restoring the same as nearly as practicable to its condition
before the start of construction.
   A.   Any person making any excavation or tunnel in or under any public
street, alley or public place shall restore the surface thereof to its original
condition before the start of construction. Refills shall be properly tamped
down and any bracing in such tunnel or excavation shall be left in the ground.
(Ord. 1886, 6-5-1997)
   B.   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface relaid by such person in compliance with the
ordinances and subject to the supervision of the Public Works Director, and if
such work is not done within ten (10) days after restoration is possible, the
City may restore the surface and charge the cost thereof to the permittee.
(Ord. 1886, 6-5-1997; amd. Ord. O-18-003, 2-1-2018)
   C.   All trees, landscaping and grounds removed, damaged or disturbed as a
result of the construction shall be replaced or restored as nearly as
practicable to the condition existing prior to performance of work.
   D.   All restoration work within the public rights-of-way shall be done in
accordance with landscape plans approved by the City Engineer. (Ord. 1886, 6-5-
1997)
ARTICLE XIII
TREE PRESERVATION
(Rep. by Ord. O-10-017, 10-21-2010)
ARTICLE XIV
OVER OCCUPANCY OF RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS
SECTION:
6.1401. Definitions
6.1402. Variation
6.1403. Violations
6.1404. Enforcement
6.1405. Penalty
6.1406. Conflicts
Sec. 6.1401. Definitions.
The following terms used in this article shall have the meanings stated:
BEDROOM: A segregated and separate room or space delineated by four (4) fixed
walls and a door and used or intended to be used for sleeping purposes.
BEDROOM REQUIREMENTS: "Bedroom requirements" used in reference to a bedroom
shall refer to the following construction, use, and occupancy specifications:
   A.   All walls and ceilings shall have, as a minimum, a layer of one gypsum
board or equivalent, taped and finished so as to provide a continuous surface
with no breaks or gaps.
   B.   The minimum finished ceiling height shall be seven feet (7').
   C.   Doors shall be at least one and five-eighths inches (15/8") in
thickness and six feet eight inches (6'8") in height, side hinged or pocket,
readily operable, and provided with latching hardware.
   D.   The area shall contain at least seventy (70) square feet of floor area
for a single occupant, at least one hundred (100) square feet of floor area for
two (2) occupants, and at least fifty (50) square feet of floor area for each
additional occupant beyond two (2).
NONHABITABLE AREAS: Closets, crawl spaces, garages, vaults, furnace and
mechanical rooms and penthouses, and other rooms or areas within a dwelling
which principal purpose is storage, structural, or housing of mechanical
systems rather than occupancy by persons.
OCCUPANT: Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having possession
of a space within a building.
OVER OCCUPANCY, OVER OCCUPY: A. In a dwelling or dwelling unit that is not a
studio dwelling, the use of a prohibited area, or in a studio dwelling, the use
of the kitchen, bathroom, or a nonhabitable area, for sleeping; or
   B.   The occupancy of a dwelling or dwelling unit having a floor area,
excluding basement and nonhabitable areas, of less than two hundred (200)
square feet for a single occupant and one hundred (100) square feet for each
additional occupant.
PROHIBITED SLEEPING AREAS: A. Kitchens, bathrooms, halls, corridors, laundry
rooms, and nonhabitable areas; or
   B.   Rooms being used as living rooms, dining rooms, parlors, family rooms,
great rooms, dens, studies, home offices, libraries, conservatories,
greenhouses, plant rooms, or for a purpose other than sleeping;
   C.   Basements and other areas wholly or partially below grade; or
   D.   Rooms which are not a bedroom or which do not conform to bedroom
requirements.
STUDIO DWELLING: A dwelling or dwelling unit consisting of a single room
conforming to bedroom requirements in addition to a kitchen or kitchen area,
bathroom, and nonhabitable areas. (Ord. O-04-016, 5-20-2004; amd. Ord. O-07-
001, 1-4-2007)
Sec. 6.1402. Variation.
The Building Code Board of Appeal may grant an owner of property subject to
this article a variation from any of its requirements if compliance would be
impractical from an engineering, architectural, or structural standpoint.
Unaffordability of alterations required by this article, the cost of such
alterations in relation to return on investment, and other nonengineering,
nonarchitectural, or nonstructural factors shall not be grounds for granting
such a variation.
Applications for a variation shall be in writing and be supported by a written
report certified by a licensed architect or engineer, as is appropriate to the
nature of the variation requested, which demonstrates that strict compliance
with this article is impractical and that, if the variation is granted, the
spirit and intent of this article will be met and life safety will not be
materially compromised.
The Building Code Board of Appeal shall grant the application pursuant to a
public hearing upon a finding that the proposed variation meets all of the
grounds stated for such in this section. All proceedings on applications for
variations shall be according to
chapter 12, article VIII of this Code. (Ord. O-04-016, 5-20-2004)
Sec. 6.1403. Violations.
It shall be a violation of this article for any person, as owner or occupant,
to occupy or let another person occupy a dwelling or dwelling unit and:
   A.   Use or maintain a room or area within such dwelling or dwelling unit as
a bedroom that does not conform to bedroom requirements.
   B.   Over occupy such dwelling or dwelling unit. (Ord. O-04-016, 5-20-2004)
Sec. 6.1404. Enforcement.
The City may inspect residential units for compliance with this article upon
the receipt of probable cause of a Housing Code violation, which shall
authorize the City to apply with the Circuit Court of DuPage County for
issuance of a search warrant for said inspection. Nothing herein shall limit
the right of a property owner or occupant of any residence hereunder from
consenting to an unannounced administrative search. (Ord. O-04-016, 5-20-2004)
Sec. 6.1405. Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be subject to a fine
as specified in the master fee schedule.
For purposes of this article, and for determining the appropriate amount of
penalty due hereunder:
   A.   A separate violation shall be deemed committed in each instance in
which a citation is issued.
   B.   All violations of any provision of this article at the same location
shall be counted, regardless of whether or not the violation involves the same
individual(s).
   C.   Any finding or plea of guilty or no contest upon a citation issued
shall be deemed a violation. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 6.1406. Conflicts.
All ordinances, resolutions or code provisions which are in conflict herewith,
to the extent of such conflict, are hereby repealed. (Ord. O-04-016, 5-20-2004)
ARTICLE XV
POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES
SECTION:
6.1501. Short Title
6.1502. Purpose And Findings
6.1503. Definitions
6.1504. Application
6.1505. Review By The City
6.1506. Public Hearing
6.1507. Public Comment
6.1508. Record
6.1509. Decision On Application
6.1510. Fees And Costs
6.1511. Waiver Of Rules
6.1512. Severability
Sec. 6.1501. Short Title.
The ordinance codified in this article shall be known, cited, and referred to
as the CITY OF WOOD DALE POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY SITING ORDINANCE. (Ord. O-
04-039, 10-21-2004)
Sec. 6.1502. Purpose And Findings.
   A.   The ordinance codified in this article is adopted to regulate the
siting of new pollution control facilities in the city in order to determine
whether:
      1.   The facility is necessary to accommodate the waste needs of the area
it is intended to serve;
      2.   The facility is so designed, located and proposed to be operated
that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected;
      3.   The facility is located so as to minimize incompatibility with the
character of the surrounding area and to minimize the effect on the value of
the surrounding property;
      4.   a. For a facility other than a sanitary landfill or waste disposal
site, the facility is located outside the boundary of the 100-year floodplain,
or the site is floodproofed;
         b.   For a facility that is a sanitary landfill or waste disposal
site, the facility is located outside the boundary of the 100-year floodplain,
or if the facility is a facility described in subsection (b) of section 22.19a
of the act, the site is floodproofed;
      5.   The plan of operations for the facility is designed to minimize the
danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills, or other operational
accidents;
      6.   The traffic patterns to or from the facility are so designed as to
minimize the impact on existing traffic flows;
      7.   If the facility will be treating, storing or disposing of hazardous
waste, an emergency response plan exists for the facility which includes
notification, containment and evacuation procedures to be used in case of an
accidental release;
      8.   The facility is consistent with the solid waste management plan
adopted by the county in which the proposed site is located; and
      9.   If the facility will be located within a regulated recharge area,
any and all applicable requirements specified by the Illinois pollution control
board for such areas have been met.
   B.   The city council finds and determines:
      1.   The Illinois environmental protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1 et seq. ("act"), restricts the authority of the Illinois
environmental protection agency ("agency") to issue permits for the development
or construction of new pollution control facilities in municipalities unless
the applicant submits proof to the agency that the location of said facility
has been approved by the governing body of the municipality where such facility
is located. For the purpose of the act, the governing body of the city is the
city council.
      2.   The act requires an applicant for a new pollution control facility
to be sited within the city to file an application. Said application shall be
filed with the city clerk. After an application is filed, the city shall take
public comment and hold a public hearing on the application. The decision by
the city council with respect to the application for such facility is required
to be based solely upon the record developed at the public hearing and upon the
written comments.
      3.   In order to protect the public interest and to promote the orderly
conduct of the hearing process and ensure that full and complete information is
made available to the governing body of the municipality, it is necessary that
procedures be established for conducting the public hearings and making
decisions regarding site approval requests.
      4.   The act provides that the requirements of the city's unified
development ordinance are superseded by the siting approval process and
determination pursuant to this article. Accordingly, in accordance with the
act, this article shall govern the acceptance, consideration, evaluation and
decision as to any application for the siting of a new pollution control
facility. (Ord. O-04-039, 10-21-2004)
Sec. 6.1503. Definitions.
ACTUAL COST OF REPRODUCTION: The actual cost incurred or paid by the city to
reproduce any part of the record, including the cost paid by the city to a
professional copy service, or in the case of a transcript, the cost paid for
copies by the city to the court reporting firm.
AGENCY: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm or partnership, association, corporation, company,
local government, joint action agency, or organization of any kind who files an
application pursuant to this article.
APPLICATION: The application prepared by the applicant and satisfying the
requirements of this article for the siting of a new pollution control facility
within the City.
CONSULTANTS: Any consultants or advisors retained by the City in connection
with the application to provide advice and counsel to the City concerning the
evaluation of the proposed pollution control facility using the criteria
specified in section 6.1509 of this article, including any technical,
environmental, engineering, land use, economic, traffic, emergency response,
ground water, and legal issues associated therewith. Consultants shall include
attorneys retained by the City for the purpose of the application.
IPCB: The Illinois Pollution Control Board.
NEW POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY: Any: a) pollution control facility initially
permitted for development or construction after July l, 1981; b) area of
expansion beyond the boundary of a currently permitted pollution control
facility; or c) pollution control facility requesting approval to store,
dispose of, transfer or incinerate, for the first time, any special or
hazardous waste.
POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY: Any waste storage site, sanitary landfill, waste
disposal site, waste transfer station, waste treatment facility, or waste
incinerator, as defined in the Act. (Ord. O-04-039, 10-21-2004)
Sec. 6.1504. Application.
   A.   A minimum of twenty five (25) complete copies of the application
including copies of all site plans, exhibits, and maps, shall be filed with the
City Clerk. However, only ten (10) copies of large scale engineering drawings
are required to be filed with the application, provided the applicant files
fifteen (15) copies of the engineering drawings that have been reduced onto
eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") paper. Upon receipt by the City
Clerk, the application shall be date stamped. Copies of the application shall
be given to the Mayor, the members of the City Council, City Manager, Community
Development Group Director and the Corporation Counsel. Upon selection, a copy
of the application shall be given to the Hearing Officer and any consultants.
   B.   The application shall be available for public inspection at the Office
of the City Clerk during regular business hours. A copy of the application or
any part thereof shall be available from the City Clerk upon payment of the
actual cost of reproduction. The City Clerk shall fill such requests within a
reasonable time.
   C.   The application shall contain the following information and shall be
filed in the following form:
      1.   The applicant shall submit a request for siting approval on eight
and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") paper that sets forth:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant, all direct and indirect
owners of such applicant, and the ownership interest held by such owners;
         b.   The name of the owner and address of the site on which the
pollution control facility is proposed to be located, all direct and indirect
owners of such site, and the ownership interest held by such owners, and if
owned in a land trust, all beneficiaries of such land trust by name and address
and the ownership interest held by such beneficiaries;
         c.   The legal description of the proposed site, and a street address
or some other reasonable description of where the proposed site is located;
         d.   A narrative description of the proposed pollution control
facility, its expected manner of operation and useful life, and the nature and
quantity of wastes proposed to be accepted each day, month and year during
operation;
         e.   A complete and thorough description of the area to be served by
the proposed pollution control facility, the waste needs in such area, and why
the proposed pollution control facility is necessary to accommodate such waste
needs;
         f.   A list of all existing pollution control facilities and of all
proposed pollution control facilities for which an application has been
submitted to the agency under the Act for a permit to develop or operate a new
pollution control facility in each case which are located within or serving or
reasonably capable of serving the area proposed to be served and, for each such
facility, the following information shall be provided: location, owner,
operator, type of pollution control facility (e.g., landfill, transfer
station), hours of operation, restrictions on operation including the nature
and quantity of waste that can be accepted, and to the extent reasonably
available from public sources, nature and average quantity of waste accepted
each month and year during the last three (3) years, remaining capacity,
expected remaining useful life, traffic patterns and copies of any emergency
response plans; and
         g.   A description of why the proposed pollution control facility is
consistent with the solid waste management plan, adopted and in effect at the
time of the application in the county in which the proposed site is located.
      2.   The applicant shall submit three (3) copies of all documents, if
any, submitted to the agency pertaining to the proposed pollution control
facility. The applicant may redact from such documents any trade secrets
determined to be such pursuant to 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7.1, and if
it is not reasonable to redact such trade secrets from a document, the
applicant may withhold such document. The applicant shall submit a log
reasonably identifying any documents withheld because it was not reasonable to
redact trade secrets from such documents. Prior to the public hearing held
pursuant to this article, the applicant shall submit to the City Clerk and the
Hearing Officer, if any, all additional documents submitted to the agency
pertaining to such facility.
      3.   The applicant shall submit site plans describing and showing, in
concept, the proposed pollution control facility including, but not limited to,
existing and proposed:
         a.   Cross sections;
         b.   Fences, buildings and other structures;
         c.   Roads, entrances and driveways;
         d.   Pollution control equipment, including any air pollution control
equipment, any solid waste treatment, storage, or disposal devices or
equipment, any wastewater treatment works, and any stormwater management
improvements, including all compliance and monitoring points; and
         e.   Emergency response equipment and control systems.
      4.   The applicant shall submit a topographic survey of the site of the
proposed pollution control facility and the surrounding area within one hundred
feet (100') which indicates land use, contours, and, if applicable, the
boundary of the 100-year floodplain, and such survey shall include the
information required by section 10.107 of this Code.
      5.   The applicant shall submit the plan of operation for the proposed
pollution control facility, which shall include the following comprehensive
details:
         a.   Means, manner and methods of waste storage, treatment, disposal,
consolidation or transfer or other processes;
         b.   Proposed hours of operation;
         c.   Job descriptions for all of the personnel;
         d.   Means, manner and method of litter, vector, dust and odor
control, and a plan for monitoring and complying with such operational plans;
         e.   Management of surface and storm water drainage and discharge;
         f.   The operation of the fire control system; and
         g.   Corrective and response actions for spills and other operational
accidents.
      6.   The applicant shall submit a traffic study for the site of the
proposed pollution control facility, which shall include:
         a.   The proposed traffic routes for entering and leaving the proposed
pollution control facility, all traffic control points and the location of any
schools, churches, medical care facilities, and residential uses along such
routes, and any other significant features or characteristics of such routes;
         b.   The daily traffic patterns, number of vehicles, and nature of
vehicles, each as of the date of the application, and the locations of any
regular traffic delays, slowdowns, or accidents;
         c.   All projected changes to existing traffic patterns due to the
proposed pollution control facility, including number of vehicles, nature of
vehicles and the effect of such traffic patterns on the locations of any
regular traffic delays and slowdowns, and areas of high incidence of traffic
accidents. (Ord. O-04-039, 10-21-2004)
      7.   The applicant shall submit financial assurance or insurance with
coverages, limits and exclusions, each of which are reasonably acceptable to
the City, as specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
      8.   The applicant shall submit a statement describing the past operating
experience of the applicant (and any subsidiary and parent corporation) in the
field of solid waste management within the preceding ten (10) years.
      9.   The applicant shall submit a statement describing the past record of
all convictions or admissions of violations of the applicant (and any
subsidiary and parent corporation) in the field of solid waste management
within the preceding ten (10) years.
      10.   The applicant shall submit a copy of all prefiling notices required
by section 39.2 of the Act.
      11.   The applicant shall submit any host agreement entered into between
the City and the applicant.
      12.   The applicant shall submit all additional pertinent documentary
support for the application that the applicant wants the City Council to
consider at the public hearing, and if admissible, in taking its decision under
this article. It is intended that the applicant provide a full and complete
disclosure of its case to facilitate early review and analysis by all parties.
However, the applicant shall not be precluded from introducing at the public
hearing documentary support for the request that was not included in the
application for site location approval, provided said documents were not
reasonably available at the time the application was filed.
   D.   An application for site approval shall not be filed that is
substantially the same as a request that was disapproved pursuant to a finding
against an applicant by the City under any of criteria (i) through (ix) of
section 39.2 of the Act, as amended, within the preceding two (2) years.
   E.   At any time prior to the completion by the applicant of the
presentation of the applicant's factual evidence and an opportunity for cross
questioning by the City and any participants, the applicant may file not more
than one amended application; in which case time limitations for final action
by the Governing Body of the Municipality shall be extended for an additional
period of thirty (30) days. (Ord. O-04-039, 10-21-2004)
Sec. 6.1505. Review By The City.
   A.   Upon filing, the City Clerk shall provide a copy of the application for
review and comment to the Department of Community Development, the Department
of Public Works, the Fire Department, the Police Department and the Corporation
Counsel.
   B.   Prior to the public hearing, the Mayor with the consent of the City
Council shall appoint a Hearing Officer to preside over the public hearing. The
Mayor with the consent of the City Council may retain consultants to advise the
City with respect to the application, evidence adduced at the public hearing,
and comments received by the city. The costs of such consultants shall be paid
directly by the applicant.
   C.   The consultants retained by the city, if any, are authorized to present
testimony at the public hearing as hereinafter described and to prepare reports
and recommendations in response to the application and to any written comments
filed with the city clerk. Such reports and recommendations shall be filed with
the city clerk at least ten (10) days before the public hearing commences, as
hereinafter described. (Ord. O-04-039, 10-21-2004)
Sec. 6.1506. Public Hearing.
   A.   The city shall hold a public hearing on the application. Within thirty
(30) working days after an application is filed, the city shall determine the
date, time and location of a public hearing concerning the application, but in
any event the public hearing shall be held no sooner than ninety (90) days but
no later than one hundred twenty (120) days from the date the application was
filed with the city clerk. A transcript shall be made and retained of all
portions of the public hearing.
   B.   The city shall notify the applicant of the date, time and location of
such hearing. The applicant shall cause notice of such hearing to be made as
follows:
      1.   No later than fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing, notice shall
be published in a newspaper of general circulation published in the county in
which the proposed site is located.
      2.   No later than fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing, notice shall
be delivered by certified mail to all members of the general assembly from the
district in which the proposed site is located, to the agency, to the county
board of the county in which the proposed site is located, and to the governing
authority of all municipalities contiguous to the proposed facility or
contiguous to the city.
      3.   Notices given in accordance with this section shall contain the
following:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant.
         b.   The owner of the site, and in case ownership is in a land trust,
the names of the beneficiaries of said trust.
         c.   The legal description of the subject site.
         d.   The street address of the property, and if there is no street
address applicable to the property, a description of the site with reference to
location, ownership or occupancy or in some other manner that will reasonably
identify the property to residents of the neighborhood.
         e.   The nature and size of the proposed development.
         f.   The nature of the activity proposed.
         g.   The probable life of the proposed activity.
         h.   The time and date of the public hearing.
         i.   The location of the public hearing.
         j.   A statement that all documentary evidence, other than oral
testimony, to be submitted at the public hearing and a list identifying
witnesses must be filed with the city clerk at least ten (10) days before the
public hearing commences.
         k.   A statement that all persons, including members of the public,
intending to testify or cross examine must submit notice of said intent to the
city clerk or sign in with the hearing officer on or before the first day of
the public hearing.
         l.   A statement that written comment must be received by the city
clerk or postmarked not later than thirty (30) days after the date of the last
public hearing.
   C.   The hearing officer appointed by the city shall preside over the public
hearing and shall make any decisions concerning the admission of evidence and
the manner in which the hearing is conducted subject to this article. The
hearing officer shall make all decisions and rulings in accordance with
fundamental fairness. The hearing officer may exclude irrelevant, immaterial,
incompetent or unduly repetitious testimony or other evidence. No ruling of the
hearing officer shall be appealable to the governing body of the municipality.
   D.   The applicant shall have the burden of proving that the proposed
pollution control facility can demonstrate compliance with, and that the
proposed pollution control facility satisfies the criteria in, section 6.1509
of this article.
   E.   Any person wishing to participate at the public hearing shall have the
rights, obligations or opportunities as set forth in this article consistent
with section 39.2 of the act and fundamental fairness.
      1.   Any person appearing at such public hearing shall have the right to
give testimony and comment on compliance with, and whether the proposed
pollution control facility satisfies the criteria in, section 6.1509 of this
article.
      2.   All persons intending to participate in the hearing, including
members of the public, must submit written notification of said intent to the
city clerk before the first day of public hearing or register in person with
the hearing officer prior to the close or adjournment of the first day of
hearing. Any person who has submitted a timely notification of intent to
participate at such public hearing shall have the right to present testimony
and witnesses and orally comment on compliance with, and whether the proposed
pollution control facility satisfies the criteria in, section 6.1509 of this
article. Should the public hearing extend beyond one day, any person not of
record as of the first day of the public hearing shall not be allowed to
present testimony or cross examine, except as authorized by the hearing officer
for cause shown, consistent with fundamental fairness. Failure to file said
notice of intent or to register in person with the hearing officer shall not
prevent any person from commenting orally at the conclusion of evidence,
subject to the hearing officer's discretion.
      3.   Any such person shall have the right to be represented by an
attorney at said public hearing. Participants represented by attorneys shall
have the right of reasonable cross examination, subject to the hearing
officer's judgment and consistent with fundamental fairness. Participants not
represented by attorneys shall be allowed to submit written cross examination
questions to the hearing officer, who shall exercise discretion to direct
relevant and nonduplicative cross questions to the applicable witness. Cross
examination of witnesses will be permitted only during that period immediately
following each witness' testimony.
   F.   Conduct of the public hearing shall be substantially as follows:
      1.   Call to order.
      2.   Introduction of the hearing officer.
      3.   Recognition of the applicant and identification of the application
by the hearing officer, which is already deemed to be admitted as evidence for
the public hearing.
      4.   Consideration and admission of evidence from the applicant by the
hearing officer of fees, notices, and date of filing of the application.
      5.   Consideration and admission of evidence from the city, the
consultants, any city departments and any other parties by the hearing officer
of any reports, exhibits, maps, or documents timely submitted to the city clerk
pursuant to this article.
      6.   The applicant, the city, and other parties represented by counsel
may make an opening statement.
      7.   The applicant shall first present any testimony and/or any witnesses
the applicant may wish to call. Upon the close of the applicant's evidence, the
city and other parties may offer expert witnesses and other testimony or
evidence they may wish to present. Members of the public properly of record may
then present oral comment. The hearing officer shall decide the order of
presentation of testimony subject to this article. All witnesses shall testify
under oath. Testimony may include the use of exhibits. All witnesses shall be
subject to reasonable questioning as follows: direct, cross examination,
redirect, and recross. After all parties have presented testimony, reasonable
rebuttal and surrebuttal may be allowed at the discretion of the hearing
officer.
      8.   After conclusion of the presentation of all testimony, summary
statements may be made by the applicant, the city, and any other person
properly a party to the public hearing, subject to any reasonable limitations
as imposed by the hearing officer. After the summary statements, the applicant
may make a rebuttal statement, subject to reasonable limitations as imposed by
the hearing officer.
      9.   At the close of the hearing, the hearing officer shall make any
findings or determinations concerning the credibility of any witnesses and the
admissibility of any evidence. The hearing officer shall establish a schedule
for filing any proposed findings of fact with the city clerk by any person
properly a party to the public hearing, and any objections thereto.
      10.   Hearing closed.
   G.   Should any issues, facts, data, or other evidence arise during the
course of the public hearing, which were not apparent or reasonably foreseeable
by a party, upon request of any party in the public hearing and at the
discretion of the hearing officer the public hearing may be recessed for a
period not to exceed five (5) working days.
   H.   If, prior to making a final local siting decision, the city has
negotiated and entered into a host agreement with the applicant, the terms and
conditions of the host agreement, whether oral or written, shall be disclosed
and made a part of the hearing record for that local siting proceeding. In the
case of an oral agreement, the disclosure shall be made in the form of a
written summary jointly prepared and submitted by the city and the applicant
and shall describe the terms and conditions of the oral agreement. (Ord. O-04-
039, 10-21-2004)
Sec. 6.1507. Public Comment.
   A.   The city clerk shall receive written comment from any person concerning
compliance with, and whether the proposed pollution control facility satisfies
the criteria in, section 6.1509 of this article. Any written comment received
by the city clerk or postmarked not later than thirty (30) days after the date
of the last public hearing shall be made part of the record at the public
hearing as hereinafter described and the city council shall consider any such
timely written comments in making its final determination concerning said
request. If the thirtieth day after the date of the last public hearing falls
on a day the city clerk's office is not open, all comments must be filed on the
next day the city clerk's office is open for regularly scheduled business
hours. Upon receipt, the city clerk shall date stamp and shall file such
written comment and the postmarked envelope, if any, in which comment is
received as part of the record in the siting proceeding. All such comments
shall be available for public inspection at the office of the city clerk during
regular business hours. A copy of such comments or any part thereof shall be
available from the city clerk upon payment of the actual cost of reproduction.
The city clerk shall fill such requests within a reasonable time.
   B.   All public comment, oral or written, which is timely submitted, shall
be considered by the city council. Public comments may not be entitled to the
same weight as testimony that is provided under oath and subject to cross
examination; while public comment shall be considered, it may be entitled to
lesser weight. (Ord. O-04-039, 10-21-2004)
Sec. 6.1508. Record.
   A.   The city clerk shall be responsible for assembling and keeping the
record of the public hearing.
   B.   The record of the public hearing shall consist of the following:
      1.   The application, including proof of notice pursuant to 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/39.2(b), which shall be admitted as an exhibit at the
public hearing.
      2.   Proof of all notices required by this article and the act.
      3.   Written comments filed by the public and received by the city clerk
or postmarked within thirty (30) days of the last day of the public hearing.
      4.   All reports, studies, exhibits or documents received into evidence
at the public hearing.
      5.   The transcript of the public hearing.
      6.   Proposed findings of fact and recommendations of the hearing officer
and any person properly a party to the public hearing, and any objections
thereto.
      7.   The ordinance containing the final decision of the city council on
the application.
   C.   The city clerk shall be responsible for certifying all copies of the
record of the public hearing as true and correct copies of the record
maintained in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. O-04-039, 10-21-2004)
Sec. 6.1509. Decision On Application.
   A.   After the close of the public hearing and after the time for submittal
of any public comment has expired, at its next regularly scheduled meeting the
city council shall consider the application. The city council shall first
determine whether the application is complete and includes all of the
information and documents required to satisfy this article and the act. If the
city council determines that the application is complete, the city council
shall evaluate the application for compliance with, and shall determine whether
the proposed pollution control facility satisfies the criteria in, this
section.
   B.   In making its decision on the application, the city council shall base
its decision on the record and on whether the proposed pollution control
facility would be in compliance with, and whether the proposed pollution
control facility satisfies the following criteria:
      1.   The proposed pollution control facility is necessary to accommodate
the waste needs of the area it is intended to serve;
      2.   The proposed pollution control facility is so designed, located and
proposed to be operated that the public health, safety and welfare will be
protected;
      3.   The proposed pollution control facility is located so as to minimize
incompatibility with the character of the surrounding area and to minimize the
effect on the value of the surrounding property;
      4.   a. For a proposed pollution control facility other than a sanitary
landfill or waste disposal site, the proposed pollution control facility is
located outside the boundary of the 100-year floodplain, or the site is
floodproofed;
         b.   For a proposed pollution control facility that is a sanitary
landfill or waste disposal site, the proposed pollution control facility is
located outside the boundary of the 100-year floodplain, or if the proposed
pollution control facility is a facility described in subsection (b) of section
22.19a of the act, the site is floodproofed;
      5.   The plan of operations for the proposed pollution control facility
is designed to minimize the danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills,
or other operational accidents;
      6.   The traffic patterns to or from the proposed pollution control
facility are so designed as to minimize the impact on existing traffic flows;
      7.   If the proposed pollution control facility will be treating, storing
or disposing of hazardous waste, an emergency response plan exists for the
proposed pollution control facility which includes notification, containment
and evacuation procedures to be used in case of an accidental release;
      8.   The proposed pollution control facility is consistent with the solid
waste management plan adopted by the county in which the proposed site is
located; and
      9.   If the proposed pollution control facility will be located within a
regulated recharge area, any and all applicable requirements specified by the
IPCB for such area have been met.
   C.   The city council may consider as evidence the previous operating
experience and past record of convictions or admissions of violations of the
applicant (and any subsidiary and parent corporation) in the field of solid
waste management when considering criteria in subsections B2 and B5 of this
section.
   D.   Pursuant to section 39.2(a) of the act, local siting approval shall be
granted only if the proposed pollution control facility meets the criteria
cited above.
   E.   The city council shall make a final written decision within one hundred
eighty (180) days from the date of filing of a complete application, specifying
the reasons for the decision, which reasons shall be in conformance with
section 39.2(a) of the act. The city council may conditionally approve of any
application provided such conditions are not inconsistent with regulations
promulgated by the IPCB. Any determination and any findings of fact by the city
council shall be supported by the record.
   F.   No written determination by the city council of an application may be
reconsidered by the city council. (Ord. O-04-039, 10-21-2004)
Sec. 6.1510. Fees And Costs.
   A.   All expenses incurred by the city in conducting the review of the
application; conducting the public hearing; deciding the issues related to the
application; and responding to any appeal thereof by a person other than the
applicant shall be paid by the applicant, including the costs of any
consultants or hearing officer retained by the city in connection with the
application who are not also employees of the city, costs of court reporting
and transcripts for the public hearing, and witness fees.
   B.   The city shall periodically submit a detailed accounting and summary of
all expenditures and requests for reimbursement to the applicant for payment
within forty five (45) days. If the applicant fails to reimburse such
expenditures within ten (10) days after written notice of such failure to the
applicant, the city may deem the application withdrawn and of no further force
or effect, and the city may discontinue any further consideration of such
application. (Ord. O-04-039, 10-21-2004)
Sec. 6.1511. Waiver Of Rules.
In order to ensure fundamental fairness, compliance with the act, and to
protect the public interest, the city council, by majority vote, may waive any
of the requirements of this article, except that such waiver shall not be
inconsistent or conflict with any provision of the act or the regulations
adopted thereunder. (Ord. O-04-039, 10-21-2004)
Sec. 6.1512. Severability.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
article, as amended, is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions hereof. (Ord. O-04-039, 10-21-2004)
ARTICLE XVI
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
6.1601. Purpose
6.1602. Provisions Of Inspection Rights And Penalties/Rental Zones
6.1603. Rules And Definitions
6.1604. Registration Required
6.1605. Registration Application And Requirements
6.1606. Inspection Requirements; Registration Issuance Or Denial
6.1607. Registration; Suspension And Revocation
6.1608. Owner Responsibility
6.1609. Leases And Rental Agreements
6.1610. Inspection Access
6.1611. Enforcement
6.1612. Violations
6.1613. Penalty For Violation
6.1614. Fees (Rep. by Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 6.1601. Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to provide for the registration and inspection
of residential rental property so as to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of the people of the City of Wood Dale including:
   A.   To protect the public health and safety by ensuring residential rental
units comply with minimum housing standards of City ordinances.
   B.   To protect the character and stability of residential areas, to prevent
congestion of population, to facilitate the suppression of disorder and to
ensure the quiet enjoyment of property by all people of the City, particularly
in residential areas.
   C.   To correct and prevent housing conditions and situations that adversely
affect or are likely to adversely affect the life, safety, general welfare and
health, including the physical, mental and social well-being of persons
occupying dwellings in residential areas, including the neighboring residents.
   D.   To prevent the overcrowding of dwellings by requiring compliance with
minimum space standards per occupant for each dwelling unit.
   E.   To facilitate the enforcement of minimum standards for the maintenance
of existing residential buildings and thus to prevent slums and blight.
   F.   To preserve the value of land and buildings throughout the City.
   G.   To foster the peaceful enjoyment of all residents. (Ord. O-07-001, 1-4-
2007; amd. Ord. O-20-010, 4-16-2020; Ord. O-22-031, 11-17-2022)
Sec. 6.1602. Provisions Of Inspection Rights And Penalties/Rental Zones.
This article shall not be construed as to restrict the right of this City to
inspect any property nor to seek penalties for violations of other provisions
of this Code.
For the purposes of this article, and for the conduct of residential rental
inspections, the City is divided into geographic rental zones, and
applications, renewals and inspections will be based on the time frame
established for each zone, also referred to as the zone period.
A residential rental registration is valid for one year with an expiration date
as identified on the registration. It is the responsibility of the registration
holder to renew the rental registration prior to its expiration each year. The
expiration of a rental registration shall be based on the geographic location
of the premises, wherein a map of the geographic areas identifying the zones to
be used in the administration of this article will be published and retained by
the Community Development Director.
All applications, payments and inspections are due on the first day of the zone
period where the property is located.
Any property for which the owner determines to provide residential rental use,
shall be immediately registered with the City, notwithstanding the zone in
which the property is located. Subsequent registrations shall follow the zone
period.
Residential rental properties that are not in compliance by the beginning of
the zone period for the property will be subject to late fees and/or additional
fines and administrative adjudication. (Ord. O-07-001, 1-4-2007; amd. Ord. O-
22-031, 11-17-2022)
Sec. 6.1603. Rules And Definitions.
   A.   The language set forth in the text of this article shall be interpreted
in accordance with the following rules of construction:
      1.   The singular number includes the plural number and the plural the
singular.
      2.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
      3.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   Whenever, in this article the following words and phrases have been
used, they shall, for the purposes of this article, have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this subsection, except when the context
otherwise indicates:
 
CODE OFFICIAL:                      The Community Development Director or his
                                    or her designee.
                                    A limited approval of the premises for a
                                    period of up to six (6) months when a
                                    property cannot fully comply with all the
                                    applicable requirements of the City of Wood
CONDITIONAL REGISTRATION:           Dale due to special circumstances (e.g.,
                                    weather conditions, unavailability of
                                    required materials or services, or other
                                    circumstances approved by the Code
                                    Official).
MULTIPLE-FAMIL Y RESIDENTIAL RENTAL Residential rental property with two (2) or
PROPERTY:                           more dwelling units.
                                    A lot, plot or parcel of land including the
PREMISES:                           interior and exterior of any structures
                                    thereon.
                                    A person, operator, firm, partnership,
                                    corporation, or other legal entity
PROPERTY AGENT:                     designated in writing by the property owner
                                    to the Code Official to manage a
                                    residential rental property including the
                                    authority to receive notices or citations.
                                    Residential structures or individually
                                    titled dwelling units let or intended to be
                                    let for rent or lease, including single-
                                    family detached structures, and structures
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY:        being used for short-term rentals, being
                                    defined as any rental period of less than
                                    thirty (30) days, or being used for any
                                    other similar sharing of residential
                                    accommodations for gain or profit.
                                    An occupant of residential rental property,
                                    regardless of the duration of such tenancy
                                    or whether there exists any written lease
TENANT:                             or similar documentation, including any
                                    individual(s) participating in a short-term
                                    rental, or any other similar sharing of
                                    residential accommodations for gain or
                                    profit.
 
   C.   Words or phrases as used in this article and not defined in this
section shall be defined as provided by the City of Wood Dale's current
Property Maintenance Code, current Building Code, and current Unified
Development Code. (Ord. O-07-001, 1-4-2007; amd. Ord. O-10-017, 10-21-2010;
Ord. O-20-010, 4-16-2020; Ord. O-22-031, 11-17-2022)
Sec. 6.1604. Registration Required.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other
legal entity to operate, maintain or offer to rent within the City of Wood Dale
a residential rental property or property used for lodging accommodation for
which remuneration or compensation is received by the property owner or a
representative of the property owner, including short-term rental, or other
similar sharing of residential accommodations for gain or profit, whether
vacant or not, without first applying for a residential rental property
registration, or having secured and maintained such registration as provided in
this article. Application for a residential rental registration shall serve as
temporary authority to operate as a residential rental property, if authorized
by the Code Official, pending inspection and full registration.
   B.   It is unlawful for a person to occupy a residential rental property, or
for any owner or property agent to allow anyone to occupy as residential rental
property a property or unit thereof which is not registered or which is without
temporary authority to operate as same as provided in this article.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other
legal entity to offer for rent or to occupy any vacant dwelling unit or any
dwelling unit that becomes vacant in a residential rental property which is not
registered or for which a registration is revoked or is under suspension.
   D.   This article shall not apply to the following structures, unless said
property is also being used to provide temporary lodging or accommodation,
short-term rental, or other similar sharing of residential accommodations for
gain or profit:
      1.   Owner occupied residential dwelling units, unless said unit is also
being used to provide temporary lodging or accommodation, short-term rental, or
other similar sharing of residential accommodations for gain or profit;
      2.   Residential buildings or dwelling units which are vacant and which
are not intended to be let for rent;
      3.   Hotels, motels, and other structures which rent rooms to occupants
which are primarily transient in nature;
      4.   Dwellings, buildings, structures and uses registered and inspected
by the State or the Federal government, including, but not limited to, nursing
homes, retirement centers, rest homes, etc.;
      5.   Dwellings, buildings, structures and uses owned by other
governmental agencies and public housing authorities.
   E.   A registration or a temporary allowance for use as a residential rental
property cannot be transferred to another residential rental property nor a
succeeding owner. (Ord. O-07-001, 1-4-2007; amd. Ord. O-20-010, 4-16-2020; Ord.
O-22-031, 11-17-2022)
Sec. 6.1605. Registration Application And Requirements.
   A.   Each applicant for a registration to maintain a residential property
for the purpose of renting it to others shall file a written application with
the Code Official stating:
      1.   The full legal name, address, and home and work telephone numbers of
each and every owner;
      2.   If the residential property is held in a trust, state the name,
address, work phone number of the trustee and each beneficial interest holder;
      3.   The address of the residential rental property;
      4.   The number of dwelling units within the residential rental property;
      5.   The name, address, and phone number of any management company
retained as property agent for the property and the name, address, and phone
number of the person specifically assigned to the residential rental property;
      6.   The name and twenty four (24) hour phone number or numbers of a
responsible person who, in emergency situations, will be available on a twenty
four (24) hour basis and who has the authority to make repairs as needed;
      7.   The name and phone number of each tenant of the residential rental
property.
   B.   Whenever there is a change in the ownership of a residential rental
property or the owner's property agent, the owners shall within thirty (30)
days of such changes, file an updated written notice with the Code Official
indicating such changes.
   C.   Each application for a new registration or a renewal of an existing
registration shall be accompanied by a fee as specified in the master fee
schedule. All such fees shall be payable at the Offices of the Community
Development Department.
   D.   All registration fees shall be due and payable upon submission of the
registration application or renewal forms. All registrations shall expire every
year as identified on the rental registration. All renewal registration fees
that remain unpaid after the first day of the zone period shall be assessed a
late payment fee as specified in the master fee schedule. This late payment fee
shall be in addition to the registration fee.
   E.   No permits for any structural, mechanical, electrical, or plumbing
alterations or repairs, or any remodeling, shall be granted to residential
rental properties unless the property has a valid rental registration, or the
work requiring a permit is to bring the property into compliance with property
maintenance, zoning and building requirements so that a rental registration can
be issued. (Ord. O-07-001, 1-4-2007; amd. Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018; Ord. O-22-
031, 11-17-2022)
Sec. 6.1606. Inspection Requirements; Registration Issuance Or Denial.
   A.   Upon submission of a completed application for a registration or a
registration renewal for any residential rental property and the payment of all
required fees, an inspection of the residential rental property shall be
scheduled by the applicant with the Code Official to occur within two (2)
weeks.
   B.   Upon receipt of a completed application for a registration or a
registration renewal for any residential rental property, including the payment
of all required fees and the scheduling of a required registration inspection,
the property is authorized to be used as a residential rental property.
Registration shall be issued or denied after the property has been inspected
for compliance with applicable City codes. A temporary use of the property as a
residential rental property shall authorize continued occupancy of the
residential rental property pending the issuance or denial of the applied for
registration. The temporary allowance of use of the property may be continued
until the scheduled date of the registration inspection and following the
registration inspection until the date of reinspection issued by the Code
Official or his or her designee. However, in no case shall a temporary use of
the property as a residential rental property be valid for longer than one
hundred twenty (120) days.
   C.   A registration inspection of residential rental property shall include
the premises and, in the case of multi-family residential rental property, a
percentage of the individual dwelling units with a minimum of at least one
dwelling unit. The Code Official or his designee shall determine which dwelling
units are to be inspected.
   D.   A registration reinspection shall be conducted at the end of the
compliance time frame. Upon completion of the registration reinspection of the
residential rental property, the Code Official shall:
      1.   Approve the registration if the residential rental property meets
the requirements of applicable City codes; or
      2.   Approve a temporary registration if the property cannot be fully
registered due to special circumstances; or
      3.   Issue a written denial of the registration and revoke the temporary
use permitted by the filing of the application for registration if the
requirements of City codes have not been met. The written denial shall specify
the defect(s) that remain and shall be transmitted by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the owner or property agent identified by the applicant.
   E.   A temporary registration may be issued for a term not exceeding six (6)
months to those rental properties which cannot be fully registered due to
special circumstances (e.g., weather conditions, unavailability of required
materials or services, or other circumstances approved by the Code Official).
Any property which has not met the requirements of the applicable City codes by
the end of the conditional registration term shall be considered unregistered.
   F.   A residential rental property which is in total compliance at the time
of the registration inspection shall receive a registration to replace the
temporary certificate. If said property remains in compliance and no violations
occur within the period covered by the registration and the tenants do not
change during the registration period, a one year extension of the registration
may be given, with no additional inspections being required, provided a
registration renewal fee is paid. If any violation occurs, then an additional
inspection may be required.
   G.   If during a registration inspection any dwelling unit is determined to
be unfit for occupancy as specified in the City's Property Maintenance Code, an
additional number of the dwelling units in the subject residential rental
property will be inspected. The number of units to be inspected shall be
determined by the Code Official. If similar violations are observed in the
additional dwelling units, the entire residential rental property will be
subject to inspection. Any unit found unfit for occupancy shall be subject to
the enforcement procedures contained in the City's Property Maintenance Code.
   H.   All additional inspections made necessary because of cited violations
not being corrected at the time of the initial registration reinspection,
access is denied, or when the owner/tenant is not ready for a scheduled
inspection, shall be subject to a fee as specified in the master fee schedule,
except that a single reinspection will be conducted at the end of the temporary
registration term without added fees for the purpose of determining compliance.
The temporary registration and the full residential rental registration shall
not be issued and the property shall not be considered properly registered
until all reinspection fees are paid.
   I.   Applications for registration renewals shall be made in the same manner
as for new applications except that such applications shall state thereon such
fact. (Ord. O-07-001, 1-4-2007; amd. Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018; Ord. O-22-031,
11-17-2022)
Sec. 6.1607. Registration; Suspension And Revocation.
   A.   A registration may be suspended when any violation of applicable City
codes has been identified by the Community Development Department and the
property owner has been properly notified of the violation and given a
reasonable period of time in which to correct the violation, but has failed to
do so. A registration may also be suspended when any information provided in
the registration application is determined by the Code Official to be false.
   B.   When an inspection of a registered residential rental property reveals
any violations of applicable codes, a compliance time frame will be set by the
Code Official using the standard as set forth in this article. The Code
Official shall provide notice by personal service or send notice to the
property owner or the listed property agent by certified mail, return receipt
requested at the last address provided on the most recent registration
application. Such notice shall include the following:
      1.   Description of the property sufficient for identification;
      2.   A statement listing the violation(s) of applicable codes;
      3.   A statement indicating the date upon which a reinspection will
occur; and
      4.   An explanation that if upon completion of the reinspection the
requirements of applicable City codes have not been met, then the registration
for the residential rental property shall be suspended.
   C.   A reinspection will be conducted at the end of the compliance time
frame. If the Code Official finds that the requirements of applicable City
codes have not been met upon the completion of such reinspection, then the
registration for the residential rental property shall be suspended.
   D.   When a registration is suspended, the Code Official shall send notice
to the property owner or the listed property agent at the last address provided
on the most recent registration application. Such notice shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall include the
following:
      1.   Description of the property sufficient for identification;
      2.   A statement of the reasons for the suspension;
      3.   An explanation of the property owner's right to appeal the
suspension;
      4.   If the property owner changes his address or changes property agents
and fails to notify the Community Development Department, such notice shall be
sufficient if sent by certified mail to the owner or his property agent's last
address provided on the last registration application.
   E.   A property owner whose registration has been suspended may request a
reinspection prior to revocation. If, upon reinspection, the Community
Development Department finds that the registered property in connection with
which the notice was issued is now in compliance with this article, then the
Code Official may reinstate the registration. The request for a reinspection
shall not stay the revocation of the registration unless the Code Official
grants such request pursuant to a showing of good cause by the property owner.
   F.   Any property for which registration has been suspended shall be
entitled to appeal the suspension to the City Council by filing a petition
within twenty (20) days after the date of suspension. The Code Official shall
transmit to the City Council copies of all records and notices upon which the
suspension is based. A hearing shall be scheduled as soon as practical upon
receipt of a timely petition. The City Council in considering any such petition
may immediately revoke the registration, continue the suspension to a definite
compliance date with revocation being the penalty for noncompliance, or dismiss
the charges and reinstate the registration.
   G.   A registration may be revoked when a petition for appeal has not been
filed within twenty (20) days following the date of issuance of an order of
suspension, or, if the suspension is sustained after appeal. A registration may
also be revoked when in the opinion of the Code Official emergency conditions
exist in a residential rental property that require the immediate vacating of a
structure as specified in the City's Property Maintenance Code.
   H.   A registration which has been properly revoked as provided in this
section shall not be reinstated. The property owner may, however, obtain a new
registration after all violations have been corrected and by following the
procedures for obtaining a new registration and payment of appropriate fee as
set forth in this article.
   I.   If a registration is revoked without having the opportunity of a
suspension hearing, the property owner has the right to appeal the revocation.
Such appeal shall conform to subsection F of this section. Such an appeal shall
operate as a stay of the revocation until such time as the City Council renders
a decision on the appeal.
   J.   Whenever temporary allowance for use of the property or registration is
revoked, the Code Official shall send notice to the property owner or the
listed property agent at the last address provided on the most recent
registration application. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested.
   K.   Continuation of the property as a residential rental unit following
revocation of the rental registration shall be a violation of the City Code,
and shall subject the owner of the property to enforcement as defined in
chapter 1, article IV of this Code and penalties as specified in the master fee
schedule. Each day a tenant remains on the property following notice of
revocation is a separately stated offense subject to a seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) fine for each day a violation exists. (Ord. O-07-001, 1-4-
2007; amd. Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018; Ord. O-22-031, 11-17-2022)
Sec. 6.1608. Owner Responsibility.
   A.   The owner of a residential rental property shall maintain a record for
each property with the full legal names of every tenant in each dwelling unit.
   B.   The owner or property agent of a residential rental property shall
provide each tenant with the name and telephone number of a responsible person
who, in emergency situations, will be available on a twenty four (24) hour
basis and who has the authority to make repairs as needed.
   C.   The owner of a residential rental property shall inform each tenant in
writing, prior to occupancy, of the maximum number of persons allowable by the
occupancy standards of the City Property Maintenance Code as amended. This
number shall be determined by the Code Official. (Ord. O-07-001, 1-4-2007; amd.
Ord. O-22-031, 11-17-2022)
Sec. 6.1609. Leases And Rental Agreements.
   A.   All rental agreements, leases, and renewal agreements shall be in
writing, signed by the tenant.
   B.   Each rental agreement, lease or renewal agreement shall contain the
following provision:
The tenant(s) is hereby notified that, upon proper notice, the City of Wood
Dale may conduct annual inspections with the consent of the tenant, solely for
purposes of compliance with the City of Wood Dale Rental Residential Property
Ordinance and other relevant provisions of the City Code.
   C.   Except as provided herein, this article is not intended to affect the
rights and obligations of the parties to a lease or rental agreement for a
residential rental property. (Ord. O-07-001, 1-4-2007; amd. Ord. O-22-031, 11-
17-2022)
Sec. 6.1610. Inspection Access.
If any owner, property agent, occupant or other person in control of a
residential rental property or a dwelling unit contained therein fails or
refuses to consent to free access and entry to the property or dwelling unit
under his control for any inspection pursuant to this article, the Code
Official or his designee may apply to the Circuit Court for a search warrant or
other appropriate court order authorizing such inspections. (Ord. O-07-001, 1-
4-2007; amd. Ord. O-22-031, 11-17-2022)
Sec. 6.1611. Enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the Community Development Department to enforce the
provisions of this article as authorized by this Code and the current Property
Maintenance Code as adopted and amended from time to time by the City of Wood
Dale. (Ord. O-07-001, 1-4-2007; amd. Ord. O-22-031, 11-17-2022)
Sec. 6.1612. Violations.
The following shall constitute violations of this article:
   A.   Failure of the owner or owners of the rental residential property to
register such property with the City;
   B.   Failure of the occupants of the rental residential property to vacate
such property within sixty (60) days after receiving notice from the Code
Official that such property is not properly registered or that the registration
or temporary certificate has been revoked;
   C.   Failure of the owner or owners of the rental residential property to
vacate all tenants from such property within sixty (60) days after the
registration or temporary use of the property pursuant to the filing of an
application has been revoked;
   D.   Failure of the owner or owners of the rental residential property to
maintain the structure and premises in compliance with applicable building,
property maintenance and zoning ordinances;
   E.   Any person other than one authorized by the Code Official who removes
or defaces any notices which have been posted pursuant to this article shall be
liable for the penalties provided for by this article. (Ord. O-07-001, 1-4-
2007; amd. Ord. O-22-031, 11-17-2022)
Sec. 6.1613. Penalty For Violation.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
article, in addition to other legal and equitable remedies available to the
City, shall be subject to enforcement as defined in chapter 1, article IV of
this Code and penalties as specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-
024, 7-19-2018; amd. Ord. O-22-031, 11-17-2022)
Sec. 6.1614. Fees 1 .
(Rep. by Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. Refer to the master fee schedule.
ARTICLE XVII
PUBLIC SAFETY RADIO AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS
SECTION:
6.1701. Purpose
6.1702. Definitions
6.1703. Compliance And Testing Procedures
6.1704. Types Of Approved Systems
6.1705. Exemptions And Compliance
Sec. 6.1701. Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to promote, protect and safeguard the public
safety, health and welfare of the citizens of Wood Dale by ensuring the
uninterrupted operation of the city's wireless communication networks used for
public safety, police and fire, law enforcement, and other emergency related
activities. (Ord. O-16-004, 2-18-2016)
Sec. 6.1702. Definitions.
For this article, the following definitions shall apply:
ADEQUATE RADIO COVERAGE: A minimum of ninety percent (90%) of each floor of a
building shall be able to receive a minimum signal level of DAQ (delivered
audio quality) 3 from city used communication networks and specifically also to
accommodate city operated two-way wireless communications from such locations
within a building to a location outside of said building; the frequency range
must be supportable for city police department and fire protection district
communications and shall be at least from 148 - 174 MHz, 450 - 512 MHz, 764 -
776 MHz, and 794 - 824 MHz.
BUILDING: Any multi-family residential or nonresidential structure, or any part
thereof, including underground floors.
DELIVERED AUDIO QUALITY: The most common signal quality measure for public
safety radio systems. There are several levels of quality, as defined below:
   DAQ 1: Unusable. Speech present but not understandable.
   DAQ 2: Speech understandable with considerable effort. Requires frequent
repetition due to noise or distortion.
   DAQ 3: Speech understandable with slight effort. Requires occasional
repetition due to noise or distortion.
   DAQ 3.4: Speech understandable without repetition. Some noise or distortion
present.
   DAQ 4: Speech easily understandable. Little noise or distortion.
   DAQ 4.5: Speech easily understandable. Rare noise or distortion.
   DAQ 5: Perfect. No distortion or noise discernible. (Ord. O-16-004, 2-18-
2016)
Sec. 6.1703. Compliance And Testing Procedures.
   A.   Frequency And Level Specifications: Except as otherwise provided, no
person shall erect, construct or significantly modify any building or cause the
same to be done which fails to support adequate radio coverage.
   B.   Owner's Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of any building
owner who currently holds a certificate of occupancy or allows the building to
be used for any purpose other than construction to be in compliance with this
section.
   C.   Testing Procedures:
      1.   Initial Testing And Compliance: If a building is believed to fail to
support adequate radio coverage, the building owner shall work with the chief
of police or their designee, who shall have conducted a test of the building to
determine whether or not the building supports adequate radio coverage, as
follows:
         a.   Each floor of the building shall be divided into a grid of
approximately twenty (20) equal grid areas.
         b.   A center spot located approximately in the center of each grid
area will be selected, which, once selected, cannot be changed.
         c.   Portable radios of the type the city police department and fire
protection district utilize will be "keyed" to verify two- way communications
between the center spot of each grid area and the outside of the building.
         d.   If such communications are verified for a given grid area, that
grid area will be counted as passed, and if not, it will be counted as failed.
         e.   In the event that three (3) or more grid areas fail, the building
will be considered preliminarily failed.
         f.   Upon a preliminary test failure, each floor of the building may
be divided into forty (40) equal grid areas and the test repeated. In the event
that five (5) or more grid areas then fail, the building will have failed the
test.
If the building fails the test, the building owner shall install a radio
amplifier system in the building as described in section
6.1704 of this article and then schedule to have the building retested until it
is shown to provide adequate radio coverage. A building with a radio amplifier
system will not be considered in compliance with this section unless, in
addition to providing adequate radio coverage, the building also passes the
radio amplifier system test described in subsections
6.1704A1 through A4 of this article.
      2.   Five Year Testing: Once a building is shown to support adequate
radio coverage after initially failing the test, the building owner shall
contact the Chief of Police to arrange for a radio coverage test as set forth
in this section at least once every five (5) years to ensure that the building
continues to comply with this section. However, if the building is modified,
expanded, or otherwise structurally altered, or if the building owner believes
that the building may not be in compliance, the building owner shall contact
the Chief of Police at that time to arrange for such test to be conducted.
(Ord. O-16-004, 2-18-2016)
Sec. 6.1704. Types Of Approved Systems.
   A.   In-Building Radio Amplifier System: If any building fails to support
adequate radio coverage, or whenever a building without an in-building radio
amplifier system fails to pass the test set forth in this section, then its
owner shall, within ninety (90) days of failing the test, provide to the Chief
of Police a plan illustrating how the building will be modified to support
adequate radio coverage by installing or modifying a radio amplifier system
within the building. Review and approval of the plan may be extended by the
Chief of Police. The building owner shall enact the plan within one year after
its approval and the building shall be retested upon completion of such
installation. The plan will be in compliance with all applicable Building
Codes.
The radio amplifier system may include any of the following to achieve the
required adequate radio coverage: radiating cable system, internal multiple
antenna system with FCC type accepted bidirectional VHF and UHF amplifiers as
needed to encompass the frequency range stated in the above listed frequency
ranges. If any part of the installed system contains an electrically powered
component, the system shall be capable of operating on an independent battery
and/or generator system for a period of at least two (2) hours without external
power input. The battery system shall automatically charge in the presence of
an external power input.
When a radio amplifier system is installed, the building owner shall cause a
technician in possession of a current FCC license, or a technician certified by
the Associated Public-Safety Communications Officials International (APCO), to
test all active components of the system, including, but not limited to,
amplifiers, power supplies and backup batteries, initially in conjunction with
a test to establish that the building supports adequate radio coverage, and
subsequently at least once every twelve (12) months thereafter, as follows:
      1.   Amplifiers shall be tested and gain levels measured upon initial
installation and acceptance; gain levels shall be measured as part of
subsequent tests to ensure that they remain the same as that found upon initial
installation and acceptance.
      2.   Backup batteries and power supplies shall be tested under load for a
period of one hour to verify that they will properly operate during an actual
power outage. If within the one hour test period, in the opinion of the testing
technician, the battery exhibits symptoms of failure, the test shall be
extended for additional one hour periods until the testing technician confirms
the integrity of the battery.
      3.   All other active components shall be checked to determine that they
are operating within the manufacturer's specifications for the intended
purpose.
      4.   The technician who performed the test shall prepare a written report
documenting the test findings and all measurements. The building owner shall
provide to the Chief of Police a copy of the test findings within ten (10) days
of the completion of testing and shall maintain a copy on file within the
building.
The building owner shall be responsible for all maintenance and repair of any
system installed to comply with this section. Every building owner with a
system installed to comply with this section shall provide to the Chief of
Police the following contact information: 1) the name, address, and telephone
number of the maintenance contractor who will supply a twenty four (24) hour,
seven (7) day emergency response to the building within two (2) hours after
notification by either the City or the building owner in order to repair the
in-building system; and 2) the name, address, and telephone number of the
primary contact personnel for the building owner.
   B.   Routine Inspection Upon Notice: Police Department personnel, at any
time after providing proper and reasonable notice to the building owner or his
representative, shall have the right to enter onto the property and into the
building to conduct a radio coverage test to confirm compliance with this
section. (Ord. O-16-004, 2-18-2016)
Sec. 6.1705. Exemptions And Compliance.
   A.   Exemptions: The provisions in this article shall not apply to buildings
or structures less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area unless
special construction needs are required in the building or structure whereby
the building/structure construction type prohibits adequate radio coverage as
defined above.
   B.   Failure To Comply: Failure to comply with, or a violation of these
requirements of this article shall subject the violator to enforcement as
defined in chapter 1, article IV of this Code. In addition to a fine,
noncompliance with these requirements may be grounds for the City to revoke any
previously issued certificate of occupancy for the building or structure. (Ord.
O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
CHAPTER 7
WATER, SEWER AND UTILITY REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I
GENERAL WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7.101. Rules And Definitions
7.102. Water And Sewage Facilities Required
7.103. New Private Wells; New Private Septic Systems Prohibited
Sec. 7.101. Rules And Definitions.
   A.   Rules Of Word Construction: The language set forth in the text of this
article shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of
construction:
      1.   The singular number includes the plural number and the plural the
singular.
      2.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
      3.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   Definitions: Whenever in this chapter the following words, terms and
phrases have been used, they shall, for the purposes of that article, have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection, except when the
context otherwise indicates:
   ACT OR THE ACT OR CLEAN WATER ACT OR FEDERAL ACT: The federal water
pollution control act, also known as the clean water act, as amended, 33 USC
section 1251 et seq.
   ACTION LEVEL: The concentration based numeric value of the grease
interceptor effluent, at the device's outlet tee and prior to mixing with any
other wastewater from the contributing establishment's property, that the FSE
is expected to achieve on a consistent or stipulated basis. The action level is
two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l).
   AGENCY: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY: Region V of EPA, until such time that the state of
Illinois has an EPA approved pretreatment program.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER: 1.   If the user is a corporation:
         a.   By a responsible corporate officer, such as the president,
secretary, treasurer, or a vice president of the corporation in charge of a
principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or
decision making functions for the corporation; or
         b.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater permit (or general
permit) requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned
or delegated in accordance with corporate procedures.
      2.   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      3.   If the user is a limited liability company (LLC): any managing
member of the company.
      4.   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the governmental facility, or their
designee.
      5.   The individuals described in subsections 1 through 4 of this
definition, may designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization
is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge
originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, and the written authorization is submitted to the city of Wood Dale.
      6.   If an authorization under subsection 5 of this definition is no
longer accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility
for the overall operation of the facility, or overall environmental matters for
the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of subsection 5 of
this definition must be submitted to the city of Wood Dale. If an authorization
under subsection 5 of this definition is no longer accurate because the
individual described in subsections 1 through 4 of this definition has changed,
a new authorization satisfying the requirements of subsection 5 of this
definition must be submitted to the city of Wood Dale.
   AVERAGE STRENGTH WASTE OR AVERAGE STRENGTH WASTEWATER: Sewage with
characteristics not exceeding any of the following: a five (5) day, twenty
degrees centigrade (20°C) biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of two hundred four
milligrams per liter (204 mg/l), a total suspended solids (TSS) content of two
hundred forty milligrams per liter (240 mg/l) and an ammonia nitrogen content
of sixteen milligrams per liter (16 mg/l) based on one hundred (100) gpcpd.
   BENEFICIAL INTEREST: Any interest, regardless of how small or minimal such
interest may be, in a land trust, held by a trustee for the benefit of a
beneficiary or beneficiaries of such land trust.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in section
7.442 of this chapter (40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b)) and/or prevent or reduce the
pollution conveyed to the POTW. BMPs include treatment requirements, operating
procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks,
sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD) OR BOD5: The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures approved in 40 CFR 136 for five (5) days at twenty degrees
centigrade (20°C), usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   BIOSOLIDS: The aerobically digested and stabilized organic solids removed
from the wastewater treatment works and disposed of on agricultural land or at
a landfill.
   BUFFALO BOX: A metal or concrete enclosure containing a valve utilized to
turn on or off any water supply from the waterworks system to any land or
building.
   BUILDING CODE: The building code of the city of Wood Dale 1 .
   BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other
approved point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner
face of the building wall. Discharge of stormwater runoff to the building drain
is prohibited.
   BUILDING DRAINAGE SEWER: A sewer which carries storm drainage, surface
water, foundation drainage and roof drainage, but excludes sewage and
industrial wastes from the building plumbing to a public storm sewer or natural
outlet.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL: The community development director of the city of Wood
Dale and/or his authorized agents or representatives.
   BUILDING SEWER: The lateral extension or line from the building drain to the
public sanitary sewer or other place of disposal.
   BYPASS: The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user's treatment or pretreatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER (CIU): An industrial user subject to a
categorical pretreatment standard or categorical standard. A CIU is considered
to be a significant industrial user.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD: Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by USEPA in accordance with
sections 307(b) and (c) of the act (33 USC section 1317) which apply to a
specific category of users and which appear in 40 CFR chapter 1, subchapter N,
parts 405 through 471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of all compounds, both organic and inorganic in water, under
standard laboratory procedures as described in 40 CFR 136 usually expressed as
a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   CITY: The city of Wood Dale, DuPage County, Illinois.
   CITY BUSINESS DAY: Each day Monday through Friday, from seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. to three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M., except for New Year's Eve Day
(December 31), New Year's Day, Washington's Birthday observed (Presidents'
Day), Memorial Day observed, Independence Day (4th Of July), Labor Day,
Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, the Friday after Thanksgiving Day, Christmas
Eve Day, and Christmas Day. Whenever New Year's Day, Independence Day, and
Christmas Day fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the following Monday shall be
deemed the holiday excluded as a city business day.
   CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Wood Dale.
   CITY CODE: The municipal code of the city of Wood Dale of 1993, as amended.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Wood Dale.
   CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city of Wood Dale or the director of
public works or his designee.
   CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city of Wood Dale.
   CITY TREASURER: The city treasurer of the city of Wood Dale.
   COLLECTOR: A trunk line which receives sewage from any number of lateral
lines and conveys such sewage either to an interceptor or to a treatment works.
   COMBINED SEWER: A pipe or conduit that is designed and constructed to carry
wastewater, stormwater, surface water and groundwater drainage. Combined sewers
are not allowed in the city of Wood Dale.
   COMBINED WASTE STREAM FORMULA: The formula set forth in 40 CFR section 403.6
(e).
   COMMERCIAL USER: Any user engaged in selling merchandise or rendering
services including, but not limited to, transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places.
   COMMON INTERCEPTOR: One or more interceptors receiving FOG laden wastewater
from more than one establishment. Common interceptors may be located at
shopping centers, malls, entertainment complexes, sporting arenas, hotels,
multi-tenant "flex" spaces, mixed use spaces, and other sites where multiple
establishments are connected to a single or series of grease interceptors. The
owner of the property on which the common grease interceptor is located shall
be primarily responsible for the maintenance, upkeep and repair of the common
interceptor.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Biochemical oxygen demand, total suspended solids, pH
and fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE: A sample of wastewater composed of two (2) or more
discrete samples collected, based on a flow proportional or time proportional
method.
   CONSUMER: Any person receiving service of water from the waterworks system;
"consumer" includes, but is not limited to, an owner or any other person using
such water.
   CONSUMPTION: Water usage as measured by a water meter.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY: The city of Wood Dale.
   COOLING WATER: The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DAILY MAXIMUM: The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT: The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of a
concentration, the daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the
pollutant concentration derived from all measurements taken that day. Where
daily maximum limits are expressed in units of mass, the daily discharge is the
total mass discharged over the course of a day.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest and principal of city revenue bonds outstanding and shall be
allocated to the various waste characteristics such as volume, BOD, total
suspended solids and ammonia nitrogen.
   DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND WASTEWATER: The utilities division and the
wastewater division of the public works department of the city of Wood Dale.
   DIRECTOR OF CITY SERVICES: The director of public works.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The director of public works of the city of Wood
Dale, or his duly authorized agent. The public works department includes the
following operating divisions: street, utilities, vehicle maintenance and
wastewater. The position of director of public works replaced the position of
director of city services.
   DISCHARGE OR INDIRECT DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into POTW
from any nonresidential source.
   DISCHARGE PERMIT: An individual or general permit issued to a user which
specifies the requirements for discharge of wastewater or the requirements for
zero process wastewater discharge as appropriate.
   DISCHARGER: Any person, firm, establishment or institution that discharges
wastewater, excluding inflow and infiltration, into the POTWs from any
nondomestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the act and
35 Illinois administrative code (IAC) 307. "Discharger" is used interchangeably
with "user".
   DULY AUTHORIZED AGENT: The mayor and city council of Wood Dale and
designated employees, agents and representatives of the city.
   DWELLING: A place or unit designed for occupancy by one family as defined in
the zoning ordinance. It may be a house designed for the exclusive use of one
family or it may be a portion of a building designed and intended to be used by
one family.
   EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA: Those criteria defined in any applicable "NPDES" permit.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OR EPA: The U.S. environmental protection
agency or, where appropriate, the regional water management division director,
or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE: Any source of discharge that is not a "new source".
   FATS, OIL, AND GREASE (FOG): Used interchangeably with "oils and grease".
   FEDERAL GRANT: The United States government participation in the financing
of the construction of treatment works as provided by title II - grants for
construction of treatment works of the act and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   FLOW: Volume of wastewater per unit of time.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT (FSE): Any user engaged in the activities of
preparing, serving or otherwise making available for consumption foodstuffs
that use one or more of the following preparation activities: blending, cooking
by frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing, rotisserie
cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting, or
poaching and infrared heating, searing, barbecuing and any other food
preparation or servicing activity that produces a consumable food product in or
on a receptacle requiring washing to be reused. A limited food preparation
establishment is not considered to be an FSE when only engaged in reheating,
hot holding or assembly of ready to eat food products and as a result, there is
no wastewater discharge containing significant amounts of FOG.
   GARBAGE: Solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food, and from the commercial handling, storage, and sale of
produce or food.
   GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a onetime basis
without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to
exceed fifteen (15) minutes.
   GREASE INTERCEPTIVE DEVICE (GID): A grease interceptor ("GI") and/or a
grease trap ("GT").
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR (GI) OR GREASE TRAP (GT): A device for separating
waterborne greases and grease complexes from wastewater and retaining such
grease and grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap or
interceptor and entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system.
Grease interceptors (GI) and traps (GT) also serve to collect solids that
settle generated by and from activities that subject users to this requirement,
prior to the water exiting the site and entering the sanitary sewer collection
and treatment system or POTWs.
   GREASE MITIGATION FEE: A fee charged to an owner/operator of a food service
establishment when there are physical limitations to the property that make the
installation of the usual and customary grease interceptor or grease control
device for the FSE under consideration, impossible or impracticable. The grease
mitigation fee is intended to cover the costs of the increased maintenance of
the sewer system for inspection and cleaning of FOG and other viscous or
solidifying agents that a properly employed grease control device would
otherwise prevent from entering the sewer system.
   HAULED WASTE: Sanitary or process wastewater transported as a commercial
venture.
   HOT SPOT: An area in the sanitary sewer system that has experienced sanitary
sewer overflows or that must be cleaned and maintained frequently to avoid
blockages of the sanitary sewer system.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE OR DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into POTW
from any nonresidential source under section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the act.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU) OR USER: A source of indirect discharge from a
nonresidential source.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE: A combination of solid, liquid, or gaseous substances in
water carried wastes discharged, permitted to flow or escaping from any
nonresidential source, including the wastewater from pretreatment facilities
and polluted cooling water. ("Industrial waste" does not include "sanitary
sewage".)
   INFILTRATION: The water entering a sanitary sewer system, including water
from building drains and sewers, and groundwater runoff entering through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections and/or
manhole walls. ("Infiltration" does not include, and is distinguished from,
"inflow".)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW: The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW: The water discharge into a sanitary sewer system, including building
drains and building sewers, from sources such as (but not limited to): roof
leaders; cellar, yard and area drains; building drainage sewers; foundation
drains; unpolluted water discharges; drains from springs and swampy areas; and
manhole covers, cross connections from storm sewers and combined sewers, catch
basins, stormwaters, surface runoff and street wash waters or drainage.
("Inflow" does not include "infiltration".)
   INSPECTOR: Any employee or duly authorized agent of the city authorized by
the city manager, community development director, or director of public works
to make inspections.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT: The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER: Any user associated with federal, state
and/or local government but including schools, churches and penal institutions.
   INTERCEPTOR: A trunk line not less than eight inches (8") in diameter which
receives sewage from a number of collectors and conveys such sewage to a
treatment works.
   INTERFERENCE OR INTERFERE: A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges by other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its
treatment processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use of disposal and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES
permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or
of the prevention of wastewater or sludge use or disposal by the POTW in
accordance with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits
issued thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): section 405
of the clean water act, the solid waste disposal act (SWDA) (including title
II, more commonly referred to as the resource conservation and recovery act
(RCRA), and including state regulations contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA), the clean air
act, the toxic substance control act, and the marine protection, research and
sanctuaries act.
   LARGE SCALE COMMERCIAL USER: A Large Scale Commercial User is any commercial
water user with a monthly consumption quantity from the Wood Dale Municipal
Water System exceeding 750,000 gallons during peak load in any month within the
previous twelve months.
   LATERAL LINE OR BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the
sanitary sewer.
   LIMITED FOOD PREPARATION ESTABLISHMENT: A firm that only engages in
reheating, hot holding or assembly of ready to eat food products and as a
result produces a consumable food product that is not in or on a receptacle
requiring washing to be reused and does not have a wastewater discharge
containing significant amounts of FOG.
   LOCAL LIMIT: Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the city
upon nonresidential users or facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions.
   LOT: Any parcel of land as defined in the zoning ordinance.
   MAIN: A water pipe (not a water service line) carrying the public water
supply, which water pipe is part of the waterworks system.
   MEDICAL WASTES: Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent representing 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand
milliliters (1,000 ml) of water. (It has replaced the unit formerly used
commonly, parts per million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in
reporting the results of water and wastewater analysis.)
   MONTHLY AVERAGE: The sum of all "daily discharges" measured during a
calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during that
month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT: The highest allowable average of "daily discharges"
over a calendar month, calculated as a sum of all the "daily discharges"
measured during a calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges"
measured during that month.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD, CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARD, OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD: Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with sections 307(b) and
(c) of the act (33 USC 1317) which apply to a specific category of users and
which appear in 40 CFR chapter 1, subchapter N, parts 405 through 471.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM OR NPDES: The national
program for issuing, modifying, revoking and reissuing, terminating, monitoring
and enforcing permits from point sources to waters of the United States, and
imposing and enforcing pretreatment requirements, under sections 307, 402, 318
and 405 of the federal act.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT OR NPDES PERMIT: A
permit issued pursuant to section 402 of the CWA, or section 12(f) of the act.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NEW SOURCE: 1. Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under
section 307(c) of the act which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that one of the following is true:
         a.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed
at a site on which no other source is located;
         b.   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         c.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installations are substantially independent of
an existing source at the site. In determining whether these are substantially
independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility is integrated
with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in
the same general type of activity as the existing source, should be considered.
      2.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of subsection 1b or 1c of this definition but otherwise alters,
replaces, or adds to existing process or production equipment.
      3.   Construction of a new source as defined under this subsection has
commenced if the owner or operator has done one of the following:
         a.   Begun, or caused one of the following to begin as part of a
continuous on site construction program:
            (1)   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            (2)   Significant site preparation work including, clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities
or equipment; or
         b.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which is intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
subsection 3.
      4.   New sources shall install and have in operating condition and shall
"start up" all pollution control equipment required to meet applicable
pretreatment standards before beginning to discharge. Within the shortest
feasible time (not to exceed 90 calendar days), new sources shall meet all
applicable standards.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER: Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   NONRESIDENTIAL USER AND NONRESIDENTIAL SOURCE: All users and sources not
defined as "residential users".
   OILS AND GREASE: Any hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, fats, waxes, oils and
any other material that is extracted by a solvent in a method approved in 40
CFR 136.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS: All costs, direct and indirect (other than
debt service charges), necessary to ensure adequate wastewater treatment on a
continuing basis, conforming with related federal, state, county and city
requirements and assuring optimal long term facility management, which costs
include an annual charge for replacement of equipment computed on the basis of
the cost of equipment replacement divided by its useful life.
   OVERHEAD SEWER: A sewer that does not discharge to a public or private sewer
main through the use of gravity. Overhead sewers utilize a pump to lift the
sewage to an elevation where gravity can then carry away the wastewater.
Nonresidential wastes discharged from overhead sewers are subject to all the
same limits and requirements of sanitary sewers.
   OWNER: Any person having any legal title or other interest in or to the
building and/or local limit, tract and/or parcel of land (or any part thereof),
whether such interest is fee simple or beneficial ownership, or that of an
occupancy or leasehold interest.
   ppm: Parts per million.
   PASS-THROUGH: The discharge of pollutants that exits the POTW into waters of
the United States in quantities or concentrations, which alone or in
conjunction with discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a
violation of any requirement of the City's NPDES permit, including an increase
in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, governmental entity or any other legal entity; or their legal
representatives, agents, or assigns. This definition includes all Federal,
State and local governmental entities.
   pH: A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, calculated by
taking the logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration,
expressed in standard units.
   PLUMBING CODE: As adopted in chapter 12 of this Code.
   POLLUTANT: Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, wastewater sludge, munitions, medical wastes,
chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt or industrial, municipal,
agricultural and industrial wastes and certain characteristics of wastewater
(e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons (380 L) of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pound (77 g)
of BOD5 (5 day biochemical oxygen demand) and 0.20 pound (91 g) of total
suspended solids (TSS). The impact on a treatment works is evaluated or defined
as the highest population equivalent of the three (3) parameters. (IEPA
301.345)
   PRETREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into the POTW. This reduction or alteration can be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes; by process changes; or by other
means, except by diluting the concentrations of the pollutants unless allowed
by an applicable pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT COORDINATOR: The wastewater operations supervisor of the
Department of Public Works of the City of Wood Dale and/or his authorized
agents or representatives.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR STANDARDS: For any specified pollutant, City
prohibitive discharge standards as set forth in section
7.442 of this chapter, City specific limitations on discharge as set forth in
section
7.445 of this chapter, State of Illinois pretreatment standards in Illinois
Administrative Code section 307, or the national categorical pretreatment
standards, whichever standard is most stringent.
   PRIVATE SEWER FACILITIES: All sanitary sewer facilities owned by one
receiving service to the sanitary sewer connection.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS OR PROHIBITED DISCHARGES: Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in section
7.442 of this chapter.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER OR PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER: A sanitary sewer provided by or
subject to the jurisdiction of the City. It shall also include sewers within or
outside the City boundaries that serve one or more persons and, ultimately
discharge into the City sanitary sewer system, even though those sewers may not
have been constructed with City funds.
   PUBLIC WELL: A hole or shaft sunk into the earth in order to obtain and
develop water from a subterranean supply, bring it to the surface and make it
available for use by the people through transmission mains where the rates
charged for such water development are controlled by an agency of the State of
Illinois or any political subdivision thereof.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): A "treatment works", as defined by
section 212 of the Act (33 USC section 1292), which is owned by the City. This
definition includes any devices and systems used in the collection, storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a
liquid nature and any conveyances that are connected to the City wastewater
treatment plants regardless of ownership, but does not include sewers, pipes
and other conveyances not connected to the City POTW treatment plant.
   RECEIVING SERVICE: An owner or occupant of any land or building is
"receiving service" whenever building drains or sewer service lines from such
land or building are connected to a trunk line or whenever the valve in the
buffalo box between the waterworks system and the water service line connection
to such land or building to the waterworks system is turned "on".
   REPAIR AND OPERATION: The maintenance of private sewer facilities by one
receiving service by keeping the sanitary sewer connection, lateral lines,
building drains and other private sewer facilities in satisfactory working
condition and in good state of repair including, but not limited to, preventing
any obstruction or extraneous material or flows from entering said sanitary
sewer system, thereby protecting said private and public facilities from any
damage and keeping same free from defects or malfunctions and making necessary
provisions and taking necessary precautions to assure that said private sewer
facilities are at all times capable of satisfactorily performing the services
and adequately discharging the functions and producing the final results and
purposes while protecting the sanitary sewer system.
   REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing all or a portion of
the sanitary sewer system equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are
necessary during the useful life of the treatment works to maintain the
capacity and performance for which such treatment works were designed and
constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL SOURCE OR RESIDENTIAL USER: Any single-family or multi-family
dwelling unit designed primarily as a place of human habitation which
discharges only domestic wastewater to the city's system.
   SAMPLING MANHOLE: A structure located at, on or near a site from which
nonresidential wastes are discharged which provides access for an inspector to
sample and/or measure discharges and constructed, whenever feasible, with an
interior drop.
   SANITARY SEWAGE OR SANITARY WASTEWATER: See definition of Wastewater.
   SANITARY SEWER: A pipe or conduit designed and/or intended to carry
wastewater from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions to the POTW, and to which storm, surface, and ground waters and
unpolluted noncontact cooling waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION: The method and/or point of connecting a lateral
line to a trunk line.
   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM: The entire system operated by the city for the
collection, transportation, pumping and treatment of industrial waste and
sanitary sewage consisting of interceptor sewers, trunk lines, the treatment
works and their appurtenances.
   SENIOR CITIZEN: Any natural person sixty two (62) years of age or older.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE: Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SERVICE: Any sanitary sewer and water service or sanitary sewer service or
water service, as the case may be.
   SEWAGE: Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, etc.). See definition of Wastewater.
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage, industrial wastes or
stormwater.
   SEWER SERVICE LINE: A lateral line.
   SEWERAGE: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage and industrial wastes.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: A user of the POTW (except as provided by
subsections 3 and 4 of this definition) who:
      1.   A user subject to any national categorical pretreatment standards;
or
      2.   A user that:
         a.   Has an average process wastewater discharge flow of twenty five
thousand (25,000) gallons or more per workday (excluding sanitary, noncontact
cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater); or
         b.   Has a discharge flow of process wastewater that makes up five
percent (5%) or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity
of the POTW treatment plant; or
         c.   Is designated as such by the city on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      3.   The city may determine that a user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards is a nonsignificant categorical industrial user rather
than a significant industrial user on a finding that the user never discharges
more than one hundred (100) gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical
wastewater (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the
following conditions are met:
         a.T   he user, prior to the city's finding, has consistently complied
with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and requirements;
         b.   The user annually submits the certification statement required in
subsection 7.483C of this chapter (see 40 CFR 403.12(q)), together with any
additional information necessary to support the certification statement; and
         c.   The user never discharges any untreated concentrated wastewater.
      4.   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsection 2 of
this definition has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the city
may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received
from a user, determine that such user should not be considered a significant
industrial user in accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6).
   SLUDGE: See definition of Biosolids.
   SLUG OR SLUG LOAD: Any discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a noncustomary batch
discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass-
through, or in any other way violate the POTW's regulations, local limits or
permit conditions that could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge
standards in section 7.442 of this chapter.
   SPRINKLING: The scattering of water in drops of particles through a system
of pipes and attached garden hoses or nozzles used for watering a lawn, garden,
golf course or any other vegetation.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE: A classification pursuant to
the "Standard Industrial Classification Manual" issued by the United States
office of management and budget. The SIC code is being replaced by the NAICS
but may be referenced in EPA regulations.
   STATE: The state of Illinois.
   STATE ACT: The (Illinois) anti-pollution bond act, 30 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 405/1 et seq.
   STATE GRANT: The state of Illinois' participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided by the (Illinois) anti-pollution
bond act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of the state of
Illinois.
   STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries rainwater, snowmelt and surface drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted noncontact
cooling water.
   STORM SEWER SYSTEM: The system of storm sewers owned and maintained by the
city.
   STORMWATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of the rainfall that is drained into storm
sewers.
   STREET: The entire width between boundary lines of every way or place of
whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a
matter of right, for the purposes of vehicular traffic other than public ways
for vehicular traffic within the parking lots of shopping centers wherein
authority to patrol has not been given by the owners thereof and other than
public ways for vehicular traffic within a park district for which such park
district has maintenance responsibility.
   SUMP PUMP: Any electrical and/or mechanical device designed to raise water
from a lower level to a higher level and is designed to remove collected
stormwater from a pit to a storm sewer or other approved point of discharge.
   SURCHARGE: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those users whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in average strength
wastewater.
   T (As In Cyanide-T): "Total".
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS): Total suspended matter, expressed in
milligrams per liter, that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension
in water, wastewater or other liquids and is removable by laboratory
filtration, under standard laboratory procedures approved in 40 CFR 136.
   TOTAL TOXIC ORGANICS: The summation of all quantifiable values greater than
0.01 milligrams per liter for the toxic organics specified in the applicable
categorical regulation, using USEPA approved analytical procedures identified
in 40 CFR 136.
   TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for treating
wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of state of
Illinois' receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by
discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment works provided.
   UPSET: An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the
reasonable control of the industrial user. An upset does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the treatment works will be
operated.
   USER: Any person or source that contributes, causes or permits the source of
indirect discharge into the POTW. It may also include such persons or sources
that are prohibited from discharging specific pollutants or waste streams to
the POTW.
   USER CHARGE: A charge established for users of the treatment facilities in
the proportionate share to each user of the operation and maintenance costs
including (with respect to charges made to any nonresidential user) any
surcharges.
   USER CLASS: The type of user: "residential user", "institutional/
governmental user", "commercial user" or "industrial user" as defined herein.
   WASTEWATER: The combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
       Industrial Wastewater: A combination of liquid and water carried wastes
discharged from any industrial user, including the wastewater from pretreatment
facilities and polluted noncontact cooling water.
       Sanitary Wastewater: The combination of liquid and water carried wastes
discharged from toilets and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   WASTEWATER AND SERVICE CHARGE: The user charge per monthly period
established for all users.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT: The document or documents issued to a user by
the city pursuant to part 7.47 of this chapter.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: The "treatment works", as defined by section 212
of the federal act, owned by the city and any devices and systems used in the
conveyance, storage, treatment, recycling or reclamation of municipal sewage or
industrial wastes of a liquid nature that are connected to the city POTW
regardless of ownership, but does not include sewers, pipes, and other
conveyances not connected to the city POTW treatment plant. Synonymous with
publicly owned treatment works, water pollution control facility, and
wastewater facilities.
   WATER AND WASTEWATER DEPARTMENT: The utilities division and wastewater
division of the public works department of the city of Wood Dale.
   WATER SERVICE LINE: The water line connecting water lines in a building to a
buffalo box.
   WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERWORKS AND SEWAGE FUND: The principal accounting designation for all
revenues received and expenses incurred by the city in the operation of the
waterworks and sanitary sewer system. (These revenues and expenses shall be
segregated so that water system revenues and expenses shall be recorded in the
waterworks account of the waterworks and sewage fund and revenues and expenses
of the sanitary sewage system shall be recorded in the sewage account of the
waterworks and sewage fund.)
   WATERWORKS SYSTEM: The system of conduits and pipes owned and maintained by
the city.
   WITHIN THE CITY: All territory within the corporate limits of the city of
Wood Dale, an Illinois municipal corporation.
   WORKDAY: A day on which production work and/or services is performed.
   ZONING ORDINANCE: The unified development ordinance of the city as set forth
in chapter 17 of this code.
   C.   Abbreviations: Whenever the following abbreviations for the words,
terms, and phrases defined in subsection B of this section appear in this
chapter, they shall have the same meaning as the indicated words, terms, or
phrases:
BMP   Best management practices
BMR   Baseline monitoring report
BOD   Biochemical oxygen demand
CE    City engineer of the city of Wood Dale
CFR   Code of federal regulations
CIU   Categorical industrial user
COD   Chemical oxygen demand
DPW   Director of public works of the city of Wood Dale
EPA   U.S. environmental protection agency
FOG   Fats, oils and grease, interchangeable with oil and grease
FSE   Food service establishment
GI    Grease interceptor
GID   Grease interceptor device
gpd   Gallons per day
GT    Grease trap
IAC   Illinois administrative code
IEPA  Illinois environmental protection agency
IU    Industrial user
mg/l  Milligrams per liter
NCPS  National categorical pretreatment standard
NPDES National pollutant discharge elimination system
NSCIU Nonsignificant categorical industrial user
NSRU  Nonsignificant regulated user
POTW  Publicly owned treatment works
ppm   Parts per million
PSES  Pretreatment standards for existing sources
PSNS  Pretreatment standards for new sources
RCRA  Resource conservation and recovery act
SDWA  Safe drinking water act
SIC   Standard industrial classification
SIU   Significant industrial user
SNC   Significant noncompliance
SSO   Sewer system overflows
SWDA  Solid waste disposal act
TSS   Total suspended solids
TTO   Total toxic organics
USC   United States Code
USEPA U.S. environmental protection agency
      Wastewater operations supervisor, wastewater division or assistant
WWOS  director of environmental services of the public works department, city
      of Wood Dale
 
(Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015; amd. Ord. O-22-023, 8-18-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 12 of this code.
Sec. 7.102. Water And Sewage Facilities Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use for any purposes any building or
structure not adequately provided with a potable water supply and with sanitary
sewage disposal facilities or to conduct or operate any business or
establishment to which the public is invited for the purpose of eating,
entertainment or recreation unless there are provided on the premises adequate
separate toilet facilities for the use of male and female patrons. (Ord. O-15-
001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.103. New Private Wells; New Private Septic Systems Prohibited 1 .
After July 21, 1988, no private water well shall be drilled and no private
sanitary septic system shall be constructed or installed; provided, however,
that these prohibitions shall not apply to repairs or maintenance of such wells
and/or septic systems that are existing on the effective date hereof. (Ord. O-
15-001, 1-15-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections 7.310 and 7.422 of this chapter.
ARTICLE II
WATER AND SEWER ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
7.201. Water And Wastewater Department
7.202. Applications For Service; Deposit
7.203. Changes Of Account
7.204. Delinquencies In Payments Of Bills
7.205. Entry Powers
7.206. Violations
7.207. Penalties
7.208. Civil Damages
Sec. 7.201. Water And Wastewater Department.
   A.   Director Of Water And Wastewater:
      1.   Office Created; Appointment; Term: There is hereby created the
Office of Director of Water and Wastewater, an executive office of the City.
The holder of such office shall be appointed for an indefinite period of time
by the City Manager.
      2.   Duties: The Director shall have the following duties: (Ord. 1460, 7-
21-1988)
         a.   Generally: The Director shall have charge of the operation and
maintenance of the City's waterworks system, sanitary sewer system, storm sewer
system and all appurtenances thereto. He shall:
            (1)   Administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
            (2)   Make or cause to be made all inspections necessary to enforce
all laws relating to water and the waterworks system as well as those relating
to sewers and the sanitary sewer system and storm sewer system.
            (3)   Read or cause to be read all water meters and shall see that
the City Collector receives the results of such readings so that he can cause
water bills to be sent to consumers.
            (4)   Read or cause to be read all sanitary sewer meters and shall
see that the City Collector receives the results of such readings so that he
can cause bills to be sent to consumers.
            (5)   Be responsible for seeing that all parts of the waterworks
system, sanitary sewer system and storm sewer system are kept in good repair,
free from obstructions and breaks. (Ord. 1885, 5-15-1997)
         b.   Inspections:
            (1)   The Director or his designee shall cause to be made periodic
visual outside and underground inspections of all properties within the City,
with specific attention to downspouts, roof drains and other visible outside
and/or underground connections and shall request the property owner to permit
entry into the premises for the making of additional inspection of the premises
to ascertain if illegal connections are present. Upon completion of the visual
inside, outside and underground inspections, the Director will advise the owner
of any such given property, in writing, of any illegal connections observed.
            (2)   In addition to the visual inside, outside and underground
inspections of the premises, the Director shall cause other lawful tests and
inspections of such building and property to be made as he deems necessary in
order to locate any illegal connections and sources of extraneous flows as may
exist.
            (3)   When corrections are made by such owner, at no additional
expense to said owner, the City will make further inspection of the corrections
to ensure compliance with this Code.
   B.   Employees Of Water And Wastewater Department: All officers or employees
assigned to the Water and Wastewater Department shall perform their duties
subject to the orders and under the supervision of the Director. (Ord. 1460, 7-
21-1988)
Sec. 7.202. Applications For Service; Deposit.
   A.   Application For Service: Applications for receiving service shall be
made in writing to the City Clerk and shall contain an agreement by which the
applicant shall abide by and accept all of the provisions of this article as
conditions governing the use of the City's water supply, waterworks system and/
or sanitary sewer system. The applicant shall indicate whether the occupant of
the premises to be served is an owner or tenant thereof, and the application
shall also contain the address of the title owner of record of the premises to
be served.
   B.   Deposit Requirements:
      1.   A deposit as specified in the master fee schedule shall be made with
each application for receiving service; said sum to be retained by the City to
ensure payment of all service bills.
      2.   When a final water or sewer meter reading is requested or upon
change of any given account, this deposit shall be refunded; provided, the
account has been paid in full.
      3.   In the event of a delinquency in any given account, this deposit
shall be applied toward payment of the delinquency as hereinafter provided.
   C.   Water Impact Fees:
      1.   Imposed: Any properties developed or constructed in the City shall
have imposed water impact fees representing the impact said construction will
have on the water system within the City.
      2.   Payment: Upon application for service, as provided for herein, the
owner or developer of said property shall pay to the City all water impact fees
provided for herein.
      3.   Fee Schedule: Fees shall be assessed as specified in the master fee
schedule.
      4.   Failure To Pay: No certificate of occupancy shall be issued to any
property owner or developer on any property on which the property owner or
developer fails to pay the water impact fees assessed. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-
2018)
Sec. 7.203. Changes Of Account.
Whenever a final water meter and/or sewer meter reading is requested or
whenever the owner of a premises indicates that there is to be a change in
occupancy, following such request, service shall be discontinued until the
account is formally changed upon application for service as provided in this
article. In the event of a change of occupancy of any building location without
such notice to the City, the new occupant shall be given a twenty (20) day
notice (within which to comply with the terms of section 7.821 of this chapter)
before service is terminated by the City. (Ord. 1460, 7-21-1988)
Sec. 7.204. Delinquencies In Payments Of Bills.
   A.   Determination Of Delinquency: In the event the charges for service or
service deposit are not paid within twenty one (21) days after rendition of the
bill for such service or service deposit, such charges shall be deemed and are
hereby declared to be delinquent.
   B.   Notice Of Delinquency: In the event the charges for such service or
service deposit become delinquent as defined hereinabove, the Finance Director
is hereby authorized and directed to cause notification to be given in writing
to the owner or owners of record of the premises and as indicated by the
taxpayer identification number and the occupants thereof that such delinquency
and violation exist.
      1.   Such notice shall state the amount of the charges that are
delinquent and the date on which they became delinquent. The notice shall also
state that the amount of delinquent charges will be increased by any charges
for attorney services, attorney fees, and court costs incurred in attempts to
collect the delinquent amount. Such notice shall additionally state that the
delinquent charges may create a lien on the premises.
      2.   Such notice shall also indicate that if such owner and/or occupant
has a complaint concerning an erroneous billing, within five (5) days from the
date of such notice such owner and/or occupant may contact the City Manager and
present such complaint to him, and that the City Manager may thereafter rectify
any error he may find to exist.
      3.   In the event user charges are not paid within twenty one (21) days
after billing, the account of such user will be deemed delinquent. Notice of
such delinquency shall be sent to such user by the City, providing the user an
additional twenty eight (28) days to become current. In the event said account
remains delinquent after such notice is given, a final notice is given, which
notice also contains a statement that service shall be terminated and
discontinued without further notice after seven (7) days from the date of such
notice thereof unless the delinquency and/or violation is rectified.
Discontinued service shall not be reinstated until all claims are settled.
Discontinued service shall be applicable to those residents whose balance is
one hundred dollars ($100.00) or higher. After receiving notice of delinquency,
the entire balance stated therein must be paid to avoid discontinuation of
service. Further, if the previous balance is not paid on time, a penalty as
specified in the master fee schedule is applied to the previous month’s
balance.
      Such notice shall additionally state that the delinquent charges may
create a lien on the premises.
      In the event service is terminated to a property the property shall be
promptly posted with a notice indicating it is “uninhabitable”. The fee for
such posting is as specified in the master fee schedule, and is payable to the
City at the time of payment for reinstatement of service.
   C.   Reinstatement Of Service; Fee: In the event any service has been
disconnected or terminated, a service charge as specified in the master fee
schedule shall be made for reinstating such service after settlement of the
current as well as the delinquent account, which service charge shall be in an
amount equal to no less than the City's actual costs for such reinstatement
based upon a rolling twelve (12) month period.
   D.   Lien For Water Charges: Whenever a water or sewer bill is deemed
delinquent as set forth in this section, in addition to all of the other
remedies and/or penalties available to the City and/or assessed against a user,
such bill, including charges for attorney services, attorney fees, and costs
incurred in attempts to collect the bill, shall represent and become a lien
upon the real estate upon or for which such water or sewer service is supplied.
The City Clerk shall file notice of such lien in the Office of the Recorder of
Deeds of DuPage County. This notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting
out a description of such real estate sufficient for the identification
thereof, the amount of money due for such water or sewer service, and the date
when such amount became delinquent. A copy of the notice as recorded shall be
sent to the owner or the owner of record of the premises as indicated by the
taxpayer identification number.
(Ord. O-09-004, 2-5-2009; amd. Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018; Ord. O-25-003, 1-16-
2025)
Sec. 7.205. Entry Powers.
It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse employees of the Water and
Wastewater Department access at all times to any premises, for the purpose of
ascertaining the number and type of water connections and the existence of the
building drain. (Ord. 1460, 7-21-1988)
Sec. 7.206. Violations.
   A.   A violation of any of the regulations contained in this article shall
be considered a nuisance. Such nuisance may be abated by an action instigated
by the Director or City Manager in the Circuit Court of DuPage County seeking
to stop the discharge either by a writ of mandamus or injunctive relief. If any
person discharges sewer, industrial wastes or other wastes into any waters of
the sewerage system under the jurisdiction of the City contrary to any statute,
ordinance or order of the City Council, the Director may commence an
appropriate action or proceeding in the Circuit Court for the purposes of
abating the discharge.
   B.   In addition, any person who is apprehended in the act of causing
physical damage to City property in violation of any of the provisions of this
article shall be taken before the Judge or Associate Judge of the Circuit Court
of the County and within the City wherein such offense occurred, and there
charged and prosecuted in the name of the people of the State of Illinois, 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-1.
   C.   Whenever the Director determines that sewage, industrial wastes or
other wastewater are being or have been discharged in violation of this article
into any waters of the storm sewer system under the jurisdiction of the City,
the Director, by conference, may endeavor to the fullest extent possible to
eliminate or remedy such violation, which violation is declared hereby to be a
nuisance. (Ord. 1460, 7-21-1988)
Sec. 7.207. Penalties.
Any person who commits a violation of this article by failing to comply with
any provision hereof or with an order of the Director or the City Manager
issued in pursuance of this article, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each day that such violation exists; and in addition thereto,
such person may be enjoined from continuing such violation. Each day upon which
the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to the City
for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the City by reason of such
violation. (Ord. 1460, 7-21-1988)
Sec. 7.208. Civil Damages.
   A.   The foregoing penalties and prosecutions therefor shall not be held or
construed as constituting a bar, release or waiver by the City to the
prosecution by the City for recovery of any civil damages it may sustain
because of any such violation, and where it shall appear that such violation
has occasioned damage to the appurtenances, machinery, equipment and/or
buildings of the City, a civil suit in the name of the City for damage to or
destruction of all or any part or parts thereof of its waterworks system,
sanitary sewer system and/or storm sewer system may be maintained by it
regardless of prosecution and collection of any other penalty for such
violation. In addition, court costs and attorney fees and other expenses of
litigation are recoverable by the City upon its suit as debts are recoverable
as part of such suit.
   B.   The City may elect to file a civil action in the Circuit Court of
DuPage County to recover the amount of such delinquency as well as its
reasonable attorney fees. A judgment thus obtained shall release any existing
lien for such services for the amount of such judgment and shall operate as a
waiver by the City of the right to obtain such a lien with respect to
delinquency. (Ord. 1460, 7-21-1988)
ARTICLE III
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7.301. Joint Waterworks System
7.302. Unlawful Water Turn On
7.303. Plumbing Standards
7.304. Water Service Connections
7.305. Water Meters
7.306. Water Service Lines
7.307. Water Use Restrictions
7.308. Water Rates
7.309. Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7.310. Private Water Supply
Sec. 7.301. Joint Waterworks System.
   A.   Purpose: It is necessary and for the best interests of the City that it
acquire and operate jointly with the DuPage Water Commission a common source of
supply of water in order that sufficient water for the use of Wood Dale and its
inhabitants for public and domestic purposes be available at all times and that
it acquire and operate jointly with the other municipalities being members of
the DuPage Water Commission a common source of supply, said method being the
most economical in acquiring a sufficient supply of water. (Ord. 1144, 4-16-
1981)
   B.   Participation In Joint Waterworks System: The City hereby determines
and elects jointly with the following units of local government (or such of
same which shall likewise elect):
Unit Of Local Government
Unit Of Local Government
Village of Addison
City of Aurora
Village of Bensenville
Village of Bloomingdale
Village of Carol Stream
Village of Clarendon Hills
City of Darien
Village of Downers Grove
County of DuPage
City of Elmhurst
Village of Glen Ellyn
Village of Glendale Heights
Village of Hinsdale
Village of Itasca
Village of Lisle
Village of Lombard
City of Naperville
Village of Oak Brook
City of Oakbrook Terrace
Village of Roselle
Village of Villa Park
City of West Chicago
Village of Westmont
City of Wheaton
Village of Willowbrook
City of Wood Dale
Village of Woodridge
 
to acquire and operate jointly a waterworks system and a common source of
supply of water under the provisions of division 135 of article 11 of the
Illinois Municipal Code 1 , as amended. The means of such joint enterprise
shall be through the DuPage Water Commission, all as hereafter to be more
specifically provided. (Ord. 1214, 2-17-1983)
   C.   Membership In DuPage Water Commission: As soon after the effective date
hereof as may be and pursuant to the terms of the statute referred to in
subsection B of this section, the Mayor is hereby authorized and directed, with
the approval of the City Council, to appoint a Commissioner to act as a member
of the commission heretofore organized and known as the DuPage Water Commission
with the powers and duties as prescribed in said statute. (Ord. 1144, 4-16-
1981)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS.
Sec. 7.302. Unlawful Water Turn On.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide any owner water from the
waterworks system by turning a valve in the buffalo box “on” or otherwise to
tamper with the buffalo box without the prior approval of or the prior issuance
of a permit therefor issued by the Director. If a person turns on, activates or
otherwise causes City water service to operate without authorization, or if a
water customer is receiving City water service that has not been authorized,
the City will promptly terminate water service and post a notice on the
property stating that the property is “uninhabitable.” Water service will not
be re-established until the applicable reinstatement fee and “uninhabitable”
posting fee, as specified in the master fee schedule, is paid, along with any
current and delinquent water services charges and any applicable penalties, as
provided for in Chapter 7 of this Code. Additionally, prior to reinstating
water service, the City has the right to seek and recover payment of any
applicable buffalo box repair or replacement costs and lock box repair or
replacement costs related to the property or water customer receiving the
unauthorized service.
(Ord. 1460, 7-21-1988; amd. Ord. O-25-003, 1-16-2025)
Sec. 7.303. Plumbing Standards.
No water service shall be afforded any premises unless the plumbing therein
complies with this Code 1 , except where service is authorized pursuant to the
issuance of a building permit subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
1460, 7-21-1988)
 
Notes
1 2. See chapter 12, articles III and IV of this Code.
Sec. 7.304. Water Service Connections.
   A.   General Permit Requirements: No connection to a main shall be made
without a permit issued by the Director. Applications for such permits shall be
made to the City Clerk. Any such permit issued pursuant to the terms of this
Code shall expire within sixty (60) days after issuance; provided, however,
that upon timely application by the permittee within the aforesaid sixty (60)
day period, the City Manager may extend such permit an additional ninety (90)
days.
   B.   Specific Tap-On Fee Connections: The City does not perform water
connections to new development for any resident or business on Irving Park
Road, Wood Dale Road, or Addison Road or for any service that needs to be
upsized due to remodeling. The fee will be waived on these projects. Further,
the City does not perform water connections to industrial or commercial
buildings.
   C.   Residential Connections: For any residential building, no connection
with a main shall be made unless a permit therefor has been issued by and such
connection is accomplished under the direction and supervision of the Director.
No water connection permit shall be issued without prior payment of the fee
provided hereunder:
      1.   A fee as specified in the master fee schedule shall be charged for
each single home or premises that is to be connected to a main.
   D.   Non-Residential Connections: A fee as specified in the master fee
schedule shall be charged for each non-residential structure that is to be
connected to a main.
   E.   Notice Of Connection; Supervision: No connection to a main shall be
made unless there has been twenty four (24) hours' notice to the Director. All
connections to an existing main shall be made under the direction and
supervision of the Director. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 7.305. Water Meters.
   A.   Meters Required: All premises receiving service of water must be
equipped with an adequate water meter furnished by the City at the sole cost of
the consumer or owner.
   B.   Meter Costs: Upon their request for installation thereof, each owner
shall pay a fee as specified in the master fee schedule for a water meter
determined by the diameter of the water service line to the premises.
A ten percent (10%) administrative fee has been applied to the meter and
reading device fee. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   C.   Location: All water meters shall be installed in a location on the
premises of the consumer easily accessible to employees of the Department of
Water and Wastewater.
   D.   Installation Of Meters: The water meter(s) and remote reader(s) are to
be installed by the owner's plumbing contractor. The water supply to the
premises may not be turned on until the water meter(s) and remote reader(s) are
installed. Each water meter shall be provided with two (2) threaded type
shutoff valves (gate type or ball valve) with full size apertures. One valve
shall be installed on the supply side and one valve on the house side of each
meter. The water meter(s) and service pipe shall be of sufficient size to
permit ample and continuous flow of water to provide adequate supply on all
floors at any given time. The Department of Water and Wastewater shall supply
and seal all water meters. In no case will anyone be allowed to remove or
replace any water meter or seals unless authorization is received from the
department.
   E.   Reading Meters: The Director shall read or cause to be read every water
meter used in the City at such times as are necessary that bills may be sent
out at the proper times.
Whenever a water meter is so located that it is not readily accessible to
reading by City officials or in the event any given consumer's water meter
cannot be read or inspected by reason of the failure of the owner or consumer
to allow access thereto for any given continuous period of six (6) months or
more, the Director is authorized hereby to install or cause to be installed
outside meters or "Read-o-Matic" or equal meters, and thereafter, the City
Collector shall bill said owner or consumer and said owner or consumer shall
pay the City for such meter and its installation within the next regular
billing period. (Ord. 1460, 7-21-1988)
   F.   Meter Tests; Fee: Upon request of any consumer, any City water meter
shall be taken out and tested by the City. If, upon testing, the meter is not
found to be accurate within three percent (3%), it shall be repaired by the
City. If such meter is found to be accurate within three percent (3%), a fee as
specified in the master fee schedule shall be charged to the consumer
requesting the test and will be added to their next utility bill. (Ord. O-18-
024, 7-19-2018)
   G.   Access Powers: The City and its employees shall have ready access to
the premises, place or building where water is supplied for the purpose of
examining and testing the consumption, use and flow of water, and it shall be
unlawful for any person or corporation to interfere with, prevent or obstruct
the City or its duly authorized agent in its duties herein. (Ord. 1460, 7-21-
1988)
Sec. 7.306. Water Service Lines.
   A.   Installation Requirements:
      1.   All water service lines from mains to premises served shall be
installed by and at the cost of the owner of the property to be served or the
applicant for the water service. Such installation shall be under the
supervision of the Director and be made after twenty four (24) hours' notice to
him.
      2.   No water service lines shall be installed unless they conform to the
Building and Plumbing Codes 1 , any other applicable rules and regulations of
the City and the following requirements:
         a.   Minimum diameter service water line size to any building shall be
one inch (1").
         b.   All water service line piping shall be "K" grade copper tubing or
ductile iron water main, Class 52, cement lined, push type.
         c.   "K" grade copper tubing shall be flared joint and/or threaded on
all pipes and fittings. The use of soldered fittings shall not be permitted
before the meter.
         d.   Corporation stops shall be tapped at or near the top of the water
main. Double strap service saddles shall be used unless otherwise approved by
the Director.
         e.   The water service line pipe and connections must be inspected and
pressure tested prior to backfilling. (Ord. 1460, 7-21-1988)
         f.   Water service lines shall be laid at a minimum depth of forty
eight inches (48"). (Ord. O-16-001, 2-4-2016)
         g.   It shall be unlawful to excavate for or begin work on the
installation or repair of any water pipe before a written permit for such work
is obtained.
      3.   The location of all water service lines shall conform to the
following requirements:
         a.   The approximate alignment of the water pipe between the buffalo
box and the main shall be perpendicular to the main and the position of the
"off" position of the valve in the buffalo box should be perpendicular to the
alignment of the water service line.
         b.   The water service line shall be located within the boundaries of
the premises served or on an easement recorded for such purpose.
         c.   There shall be maintained a horizontal separation of ten feet
(10') between any water service line pipe and any sanitary sewer service line.
In the event a water service line is laid in the same trench with the sanitary
sewer service line, the water service line shall be located on a ledge (shelf)
not less than eighteen inches (18") above the sanitary sewer service line and
not less than four feet (4') below finished grade level.
   B.   Buffalo Boxes: A Minneapolis buffalo box and valve must be installed on
every water service line and shall be located within the dedicated public
right-of-way or dedicated City easement (as the case may be) between the curb
line or gutter of the street pavement and any public sidewalk. Such buffalo box
shall be located so that it is easily accessible, and the valves located
therein shall be protected from frost. (Ord. 1460, 7-21-1988)
   C.   Inspections Fees: An inspection fee as specified in the master fee
schedule shall be paid to the City Collector at the time the application is
filed. This inspection fee is in addition to the tap-on fee and in addition to
user charges, the provisions of which are detailed in other sections of this
article. An additional fee as specified in the master fee schedule will be
charged for all inspections required other than during the regular forty (40)
hour workweek and for each additional inspection in excess of one inspection.
Excavation for any of the above purposes shall require a separate permit,
pursuant to the Building Code of the City. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   D.   Repairs: All repairs for water service lines shall be made by and at
the expense of the owners of the premises served. In the case of an emergency,
the City may repair any water service lines and charge the cost of such repair
work to the owner of the premises served.
   E.   Excavations: All excavations for installing or repairing water service
lines shall comply with the provisions of this Code regulating excavation 2 .
(Ord. 1460, 7-21-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 12, articles III and IV of this Code.
2 1. See chapter 6, article XII of this Code.
Sec. 7.307. Water Use Restrictions.
   A.   Unauthorized Use Of Fire Hydrant: Exclusive of firefighting and
Department of Water and Wastewater personnel, it shall be unlawful at any time
for any person to take any water from any fire hydrant without proper
authority.
   B.   Lawn And Garden Sprinkling: It shall be unlawful for any person to use
or any owner to allow the use of any water, whether drawn directly or
indirectly, from the waterworks system for the purpose of watering and/or
sprinkling lawns and/or gardens, except as provided hereinbelow:
      1.   All such watering and/or sprinkling at residential, business and/or
industrial locations with even numbered addresses shall be accomplished only
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.
and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on days with even
numbered dates.
      2.   All such watering and/or sprinkling at residential, business and/or
industrial locations with odd numbered addresses shall be accomplished only
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.
and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on days with odd
numbered dates.
      3.   Newly sodded areas of lawns or newly planted shrubbery may be
watered by special permit issued by the Director, pursuant to the regulations
contained hereinbelow:
         a.   The applicant for such special permit shall make application in
duplicate on forms provided by the Director, which form shall require the
following information:
            (1)   The name of the applicant;
            (2)   Whether the applicant is an individual, copartnership or
corporation;
            (3)   The residence and/or business address of the applicant;
            (4)   The place (address) where the newly sodded area is located;
            (5)   The consecutive dates (not exceeding 15 days) for which the
permit is being requested.
         b.   Upon completion of the application forms and filing same with the
Director, the applicant shall pay a special permit fee in the amount as
specified in the master fee schedule per lot of record.
         c.   Upon receipt of any such special permit application, the Director
shall forward the application to the City Collector who shall collect payment
of the proper fee and thereafter issue a special permit to sprinkle lawns to
the applicant. Such permit shall allow the permittee unlimited sprinkling
privileges for fifteen (15) consecutive days, commencing with the date of
issuance, the dates of which shall be shown thereon. The permit shall be posted
in clear view at the location for which such special permit was issued. The
permit may be renewed once but shall not thereafter be renewed and may not
thereafter be reapplied for. The fee for such renewal shall be as specified in
the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   C.   Filling Swimming Pools: The filling of swimming pools shall be
accomplished in accordance with the regulations contained in this Code.
   D.   Authority To Ban Water Use: Upon recommendation of the Director, the
City Manager shall have the authority to place a complete ban on filling and/or
refilling swimming pools or sprinkling lawns and/or gardens or for the purpose
of washing vehicles at any time the City water supply is in danger because of
overusage, pump failure, well failure or failure of any part of the waterworks
system and/or the City's potable water supply. In such emergency, such ban
shall become effective immediately upon order of the City Manager, as the case
may be.
   E.   Cross Connections 1 : Only potable water shall be accessible to
plumbing fixtures which are located in buildings or which supply water for
drinking, bathing, culinary use or the processing of food, medical or
pharmaceutical products. A potable water supply system shall be designed,
installed and maintained in all buildings in such manner as to prevent
contamination from nonpotable liquids, solids or gases from being introduced
into the waterworks system through cross connections or any other piping
connections to the waterworks system.
   F.   Resale Of Water: Except in the case of an emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to resell or distribute water to any premises located
within or without the corporate limits of the City. (Ord. 1460, 7-21-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See article V of this chapter.
Sec. 7.308. Water Rates.
   A.   Monthly Rates; Additional Charge: All users of water supplied by the
City having a direct or indirect connection with City water mains shall pay a
monthly bill per account consisting of a fixed fee and a variable usage fee as
specified in the master fee schedule.
   B.   Bills Payable: All bills for service shall be rendered as of the first
day of each month succeeding the period for which service is billed and shall
be payable upon receipt and not later than the close of business of the twenty
first day after billing. Bills paid after the due date shall be subject to a
penalty as specified in the master fee schedule. In the event an estimated bill
is rendered, the bill for water usage shall be based on the usage history of
the account during the previous twelve (12) billing periods. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-
19-2018)
   C.   Rate Discount While Filling Swimming Pool:
      1.   A residential user shall be entitled to a reduction of sewer rates
by the amount of water used annually for the first seasonal filling of his
swimming pool if:
         a.   He can prove that a permit for a pool was obtained when the pool
was constructed, if such was required.
         b.   He requests the reduction in writing.
         c.   Such user shall have installed a separate water meter to measure
the water flow of the supply line to his swimming pool and, provided further,
the meter has been read by a representative of the City before and after the
filling of the pool.
         d.   He signs an affidavit indicating that the representations that he
makes at the time of the application for discount are true and accurate.
      2.   Such discount shall never reduce the bill below an amount calculated
by using the water consumption at the location for the same billing period of
the previous year.
      3.   The residential user requesting such a reduction shall present the
required information at the Office of the Finance Director at City Hall. The
reduction shall be allowed following the computation of the number of gallons
used to fill the swimming pool.
      4.   The discount shall be disallowed if the swimming pool is illegally
connected to the City sewerage system. (Ord. 1764, 10-6-1994)
   D.   Application And Provisions For Rate Reduction: Upon written application
from any residents whose household income is not more than the very low income
figures established by the income eligibility rates, published by the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), effective July 1,
1979, and as currently revised, as verified by the resident's previous year's
U.S. Federal Income Tax return, the City Collector shall authorize a rate
reduction as specified in the master fee schedule; provided, however, that such
persons are also:
      1.   Heads of households entitled to and receiving benefits under the
Social Security Act or benefits under other pension plans and are at least
sixty two (62) years of age; or
      2.   Widowers or widows having dependent children; or
      3.   Totally disabled; or
      4.   United States military veterans.
Proof of eligibility shall be submitted annually thereafter to said City
Collector. Said rate reduction shall not result in a credit to any user's
account. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 7.309. Prohibited Acts And Conditions.
   A.   Tampering With Waterworks System Or Water Meter: It shall be unlawful
for any person not authorized by the City to tamper with, alter or injure any
part of the City's waterworks system or any water meter. (Ord. 1460, 7-21-1988)
   B.   Obstructing Fire Hydrants: It shall be unlawful for any person under
his direction and control to cover, hide, obscure or bury by the piling of snow
or other debris any fire hydrant.
Any person violating this subsection shall be fined an amount as specified in
the master fee schedule for each offense. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 7.310. Private Water Supply 1 .
New private water wells are not permitted within the City. Existing wells shall
be governed by this section.
   A.   Well Site:
      1.   The well site shall have good surface drainage and be higher than
surrounding sources of pollution such as privies, cesspools, septic tanks and
sewers.
      2.   No well shall be located within fifty feet (50') of the centerline
of any public road or utility or drainage easement when an alternate location
is practical.
      3.   Any well located in a basement offset shall be at least five feet
(5') outside the foundation line.
      4.   Each single-family residence shall have its own separate well on the
lot whereon it is located, except where such single-family residence is
connected to and using a public water supply as defined in 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 40/1.
      5.   Sealing and abandonment of wells is to be done within thirty (30)
days after a building is connected to the City's water supply system.
   B.   Minimum Distances From Sources Of Pollution:
      1.   Minimum distance from wells or suction lines to sources of pollution
shall be as follows:
 
a. There shall be no sewers or drains of any kind within 10 feet of
   any well
   Extra heavy cast iron sewers with leaded joints encased in sleeves
b. filled with asphalt or other approved jointing material and tested 10 feet
   for leakage
c. Cast iron sewers with leaded joints                                25 feet
   Vitrified clay, concrete, asbestos-cement or bituminous sewers or
d. drains with sealed joints; monolithic concrete or steel septic     50 feet
   tanks, grease traps, catch basins or privy vaults; open sand
   filters
   Subsurface seepage fields, stables, barnyards, manure piles;
e. masonry septic tanks, grease traps or catch basins; streams, ponds 75 feet
   or lakes
f. Privy pits or seepage pits                                         100 feet
g. Cesspools                                                          150 feet
 
   C.   Maintenance Of Private Water Supply: Every water well shall be
maintained in a safe condition by the owner.
   D.   Abandonment Of Use:
      1.   Private wells may not be maintained for any use after a hookup to
the City's water supply system.
      2.   Sealing and abandonment of wells is to be done within thirty (30)
days after a building is connected to the City's water supply system.
      3.   Every abandoned well shall be filled and sealed in accordance with
the recommendations of the State Geological Survey, Urbana, Illinois, in
accordance with the requirements of the DuPage County Health Department and in
accordance with the State of Illinois Department of Mines and Minerals, rule
X1-A, "sealing of abandoned water wells".
      4.   The owner shall supply a copy of a well sealing certificate signed
by a certified well driller to the City certifying that the private well has
been sealed in compliance with the standards adopted by the DuPage County
Health Department. (Ord. 1460, 7-21-1988; amd. 1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 7.103 of this chapter.
ARTICLE IV
SEWER USE AND PRETREATMENT
SECTION:
Part 7.40. General Provisions
7.401. Enactment
7.402. Purpose And Policy
7.403. Administration
7.404. Jurisdiction
7.405. Relationship To Other Articles In This Chapter
Part 7.41. Sewer Extension Requirements
7.411. Applicability
7.412. Sewer Extension Requirements
7.413. New Trunk Lines
Part 7.42. Sewer Connection Procedures
7.421. Use Of Public Sewers Required
7.422. Private Sewage Disposal
7.423. Building Sewer And Connections
7.424. Fees
7.425. Monitoring Facilities
7.426. Additional Structures Required For Use Of Public Sewers
7.427. Food Service Establishments
7.428. Sewer Line Maintenance/Replacement
7.429. Automobile Service, Repair And Fuel Dispensing Properties
Part 7.43. Information Required Of Nonresidential Users
7.431. Initial Survey (Questionnaire)
7.432. Affirmation To Initial Survey
7.433. Reports Of Changed Conditions
7.434. Additional Survey Information
Part 7.44. General Discharge Requirements
7.441. Applicability
7.442. Prohibited Discharge Standards
7.443. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
7.444. State Limits
7.445. Local Limits
7.446. Right Of Revision
7.447. Monitoring Facilities
7.448. Monitoring Requirements
7.449. Analytical Requirements
7.450. Protection Of City Sampling And Flow Metering Equipment From Damage
Part 7.45. General Discharge Compliance
7.451. Applicability
7.452. Pretreatment Facilities
7.453. Additional Pretreatment Measures
7.454. Best Management Practices (BMP) Plan
7.455. Spill Prevention/Slug Control Plan
7.456. Closure Plan
Part 7.46. Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirements And Application
7.461. Wastewater Information And Analysis
7.462. Wastewater Discharge Permit Authority And Requirements
7.463. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permitting; Existing
Connections
7.464. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permitting; New Connections
7.465. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Application Contents
7.466. Individual And General Application Signatories And Certification
7.467. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Decisions
Part 7.47. Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance Process
7.471. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Duration
7.472. Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents
7.473. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Appeals
7.474. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Modification
7.475. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer
7.476. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Revocation
7.477. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Reissuance
7.478. Regulation Of Waste Received From Other Jurisdictions
Part 7.48. Reporting Requirements
7.480. Users To Provide Reports
7.481. Pretreatment Requirements For Noncategorical Users
7.482. Pretreatment Requirements For Categorical Industrial Users
7.483. Periodic Compliance Reports/Self-Monitoring Reports
7.484. Reports From Nonpermitted Users
7.485. Authorized Representative Change Notification
7.486. Reports Of Changed Conditions
7.487. Reports Of Potential Problems
7.488. Notice Of Violation/Repeat Sampling And Reporting
7.489. Notification Of The Discharge Of Hazardous Waste
7.490. Report Submittal Due Dates
Part 7.49. Affirmative Defenses To Discharge Violations
7.491. Upset
7.492. Bypass
7.493. Prohibited Discharge Limitations
Part. 7.49.5. Miscellaneous Provisions
7.495. Severability
7.496. Conflict
7.497. Offenses Under Previous Articles
Part 7.40. General Provisions
Sec. 7.401. Enactment.
Pursuant to the requirements of the federal clean water act, 33 USC section
1251 et seq., and regulations promulgated thereunder; the (Illinois)
environmental protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.; and
the Illinois municipal code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1-1 et seq.,
this chapter is hereby passed and approved by the mayor and city council of the
city of Wood Dale, Illinois, and duly published in accordance with law, and
shall be known and may be cited as the SEWER USE AND PRETREATMENT RULES AND
REGULATIONS. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.402. Purpose And Policy.
This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the POTW for the
city. Specifically, in this regard, it provides for the use of private and
public sewers and drains and private sewage disposal, and authorizes the
installation and continuing of connections into the sewage works of the city
upon certain conditions, including permission thereof; provides for the
installation and maintenance of such connections and enforcement thereof;
regulates the use of municipal and private sewers and drains, individual
wastewater disposal and the installation, connection and disconnection of
building sewers, the discharge of water and waste in the public sewer system
and provides for penalties for violation thereof; and provides for termination
of permits issued by the city pursuant to the provisions hereof.
This chapter enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal
laws, including the clean water act. Additional objectives of this chapter are:
   A.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with its operation;
   B.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will pass
through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be
incompatible with the POTW;
   C.   To protect both POTW personnel who may be affected by air, wastewater
and sludge in the course of their employment and the general public;
   D.   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge from
the POTW;
   E.   To enable the city to comply with its national pollutant discharge
elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the POTW is subject;
   F.   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the POTW;
   G.   To provide uniform requirements for food service establishments for the
control of grease discharge to the sanitary sewer system; and
   H.   To regulate private wastewater disposal systems.
This chapter shall apply to all users of the POTW and provides for the
enforcement of general requirements for users. This chapter authorizes the
issuance of wastewater connection and discharge permits; provides for
monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities; establishes administrative
review procedures; requires user reporting; and provides for the setting of
fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the programs
established herein. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.403. Administration.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the pretreatment coordinator and/or duly
authorized agent(s) shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the pretreatment
coordinator and/or duly authorized agent(s) may be delegated by the city or
pretreatment coordinator to other city personnel or other duly authorized agent
(s) of the city.
It shall be the duty of employees of the city departments of police and
community development and planning to give vigilant aid to the department of
public works in the enforcement of this chapter and to this end they shall
report all violations thereof, which come to their knowledge, to the director
of public works. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.404. Jurisdiction.
This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city who are,
by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city POTW. (Ord. O-15-001,
1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.405. Relationship To Other Articles In This Chapter.
All references to the sections are to sections of articles in this chapter
unless otherwise specified. The definitions and abbreviations in article I of
this chapter shall apply to this article. Local limits referenced in this
article are identified in article VI of this chapter. User charge and surcharge
provisions for wastewater are in article VII of this chapter. Provisions for
fees are identified in each article above while the actual fee can be found in
article VIII of this chapter. Enforcement options for the provisions of the
above articles are found in article IX of this chapter. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-
2015)
Part 7.41. Sewer Extension Requirements
Sec. 7.411. Applicability.
The extension of a sanitary sewer by any entity that will serve or in the
future may serve more than one building and that will connect either directly
or indirectly to the sewage works of the city shall be made only after an
application for a city permit has been made in writing on forms prescribed and
furnished by the city and an extension permit is issued by the city. (Ord. O-
15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.412. Sewer Extension Requirements.
   A.   Application: Persons desiring such extension of the sewer system shall
file with the city four (4) copies of the following documents:
      1.   Detailed plans and specifications prepared by a professional
engineer registered in the state of Illinois.
      2.   IEPA permit application with such supporting documents required by
the IEPA, completely filled out and ready for city execution.
      3.   Detailed estimate of the cost of the extension.
The person or persons extending the sewer shall pay all costs of plan review to
the city prior to the city signing the IEPA permit application.
   B.   Issuance: The city will issue an extension permit in accordance with
the following:
      1.   It has been demonstrated that the downstream treatment works,
including city sewers and pump stations, have sufficient reserve capacity to
adequately and efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
      2.   A permit has been issued by the Illinois environmental protection
agency. The city permit shall expire on the expiration date of the Illinois
environmental protection agency permit. Those portions of the work for which a
city permit has been issued and the work has been approved by the city shall be
completed within the permit time. Future construction on the project for which
the original permit was issued shall require a new permit that will be issued
in compliance with this code at the time of the application for the new permit.
All fees and charges assessed under the conditions of the city permit are
forfeited by the applicant/owner upon the expiration of the permit.
      3.   The city has received an agreement and bond executed by the
permittee wherein he or she agrees to make and install the improvements in
accordance with plans and specifications identifying a completion date not more
than six (6) months after the date of the agreement, unless the city council
determines, on the basis of the recommendation of the city engineer (CE), that
a longer time is necessary.
The guarantee for completion of the improvements by the permittee shall be in
the principal amount of one hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated cost as
approved by the CE and secured by either:
         a.   A letter of credit from an escrow account at a federally insured
bank or savings and loan association subject to draw by the city to complete
the improvements if it is not completed within the prescribed time limit.
         b.   A clean, nondeclining, irrevocable letter of credit issued by a
federally insured bank or savings and loan association. The letter shall be
approved by the city and provide that funds may be drawn only by the city.
         c.   A surety bond in a form and from an institution acceptable to the
city administrator.
The bond shall remain in effect for a period of one year after acceptance of
the work by the CE as a guarantee of good faith of the permittee to correct
defects. At the discretion of the city council, the bond may be reduced during
the maintenance period.
      4.   The city has received copies of all permits, insurance and bonds
required for street openings or stream crossings and any other permits required
by an agency having jurisdiction.
      5.   The city has received certificates of insurance protecting the city
from any liability or damage whatsoever from injury, including death, to any
person or property. The amount of the insurance and coinsurance shall be as
recommended by the city insurance carrier used by the city council.
      6.   The city has received payment for the cost of the permit and the
estimated cost of inspection. The cost of inspection shall include resident
supervision if deemed necessary by the CE. The estimated cost of inspection,
approved by the CE, shall be deposited with the city treasurer prior to the
start of work and additional funds added during the work if required. The
permittee, however, shall pay only the actual costs of such services based on
standard engineering fees. At the completion of the work any unused portion of
the amount deposited shall be returned. No interest shall be paid on deposited
funds.
   C.   Construction Requirements:
      1.   The rules, regulations, chapters and policies listed hereafter and
issued by the authorities indicated are incorporated herein by reference and
shall govern the work so far as they apply to said work.
      2.   The city's rules, regulations, resolutions, policies, directives and
instructions that may be adopted or issued from time to time by the city,
including, but not limited to:
         a.   "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois", latest edition.
         b.   The Illinois environmental protection agency's rules,
regulations, technical releases and requirements.
         c.   "The Illinois Recommended Standards For Sewage Works", IEPA,
latest edition.
         d.   The state of Illinois plumbing code (latest edition).
         e.   "Federal Manual Of Practice No. 9", Water Pollution Control
Federation, latest edition.
      3.   The permittee agrees that they shall provide adequate inspection
during the entire construction period which, at the option of the city, may
require a full time resident engineer. The city reserves the right to review
the construction.
      4.   Changes in the work to be done or materials to be used from those
shown on the plans or set forth in the specifications, as submitted to the
city, shall be approved in writing by the CE prior to the changed work being
done or the changed materials being installed.
      5.   The contractor or the contractor's representative constructing the
sewer extension shall notify the city two (2) city business days prior to
commencing construction. When the construction of the sewer extension is
interrupted for a period of seven (7) calendar days or more, the city shall be
notified two (2) city business days prior to continuing construction of the
sewer extension.
      6.   At the time a sewer extension is connected to an existing sewer, the
connection shall be made at an existing manhole or in a manhole constructed
over the existing sewer. If an existing manhole is the point of connection and
a suitable stub is not provided for the extension, the existing manhole shall
be core drilled and a suitable connection stub installed. The sewer extension
shall be plugged with a watertight concrete plug by the contractor at the time
the connection to the existing sewer is made. The plug shall be maintained in
place at all times until the sewer extension is approved in writing by the CE.
If the plug is not maintained in place, the city shall install a concrete plug
and charge a fee to the contractor for each time a plug is installed by the
city. The fee for a plug is established annually by the department of public
works and is published in article VIII of this chapter. Mechanical plugs are
also an acceptable means of plugging the sewer to maintain it out of service.
The charge for installation of a plug in the sewer is published in article VIII
of this chapter, and will also include the cost of materials.
      7.   Upon completion of construction, the contractor shall notify the CE
requesting final review of the work. The contractor shall televise the
completed extension in the presence of a city staff who will take immediate
possession of the videotape prior to leaving the site. The city shall review
the work for conformance with the city's requirements and adherence to the
approved plans and specifications for which the city's sewer extension permit
was issued. If deficiencies are found in the work, the city shall furnish the
contractor with a listing of such deficiencies. When the contractor believes
that the deficiencies have been corrected, the contractor shall request a re-
review of the work. Should the re-review of the work show that the deficiencies
as set forth have not been corrected, the contractor shall make the necessary
corrections, and subsequent to that, shall notify the city and request another
review. The city shall charge a fee for each additional review and/or
inspection after the first inspection following the issuance of the list of
deficiencies. The fee for each additional review and/or inspection is published
as part of article VIII of this chapter.
      8.   All sanitary sewer mains shall be constructed in the center of the
street or roadway unless approved by the department of community development
and planning and public works or within public rights of way or within
easements dedicated for public utilities. No sanitary sewer mains shall be
installed in the rear or side yard of any property unless first approved by the
CE.
      9.   Minimum sanitary sewer main size shall be eight inch (8") diameter
for public sewer mains for sewer mains serving more than one building.
      10.   Manholes shall be precast reinforced concrete sections meeting ASTM
C-478 and ASTM C-443 standards. Manholes for sanitary sewers twenty four inches
(24") or less in diameter shall have a minimum inside diameter of forty eight
inches (48"). Manholes for sanitary sewers greater than twenty four inches
(24") in diameter shall have a minimum inside diameter of sixty inches (60")
and be spaced at a maximum of three hundred twenty five feet (325').
Additionally, manholes shall be installed under the following conditions:
termination of existing and future lines, changes in direction (horizontal or
vertical), changes in pipe shape or pipe size, or junctions with other sewers.
Drop manholes shall be provided for manholes with any pipe having a difference
in invert elevation more than twenty four inches (24") above the invert of the
sewer leaving the manholes. All drop manholes shall be of the external type. No
internal drop manhole connections will be allowed.
   D.   Project Completion: No connection permits shall be issued or building
permits released until such time that final approval of the improvement has
been made in writing by the CE. Final approval is contingent upon the
following:
      1.   All punch list work has been completed;
      2.   As built plans prepared by a registered Illinois professional
engineer are furnished to and are approved by the city. No grandfather clause
for existing uses is granted or intended;
      3.   The sewer has been televised by the contractor or by the permittee
in the presence of city personnel per the requirements identified in section
7.413 of this article; and
      4.   A video record of the television inspection has been provided to the
city. In addition to a video record, air exfiltration testing as outlined in
division III, section 31-1.11, of the "Standard Specifications For Water And
Sewer Main Construction In Illinois", will be completed prior to acceptance.
      5.   All additional charges levied by the city have been paid.
   E.   Connections To Extension: Also, no connection shall be made to the
sanitary sewer until sewer connection permits have been issued by the city
under part
7.42 of this article.
   F.   Performance Bond Release: The performance bond will not be released
until the guarantee period has expired and the following documents are filed
with the city clerk and approved by the city council:
      1.   As built drawings: One reproducible set and two (2) sets of prints;
      2.   Video record of television inspection;
      3.   Release of all permits;
      4.   Copies of all tests required by the city engineer;
      5.   Bill of sale for all constructed public improvements; and
      6.   Such other documents as may be reasonably requested by the city.
(Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.413. New Trunk Lines.
In addition to all other requirements of all the ordinances of the city
pertaining to the installation and construction of sanitary sewers, the
following tests and criteria are hereby established to be complied with prior
to any acceptance of any new trunk line construction in the city after February
6, 1975. (Said tests and criteria pertain to any trunk line installed to
service or extend the present sanitary sewer system.)
   A.   All construction must have been installed in accordance with approved
plans and specifications as prescribed by the city and all workmanship must
have been performed in a satisfactory manner.
   B.   Infiltration shall not exceed two hundred (200) gallons per mile, per
one inch (1") in diameter of pipe, per twenty four (24) hour day. Infiltration
tests shall be performed under the supervision of the CE.
   C.   Completed installations must be televised by closed circuit television,
such televising to be performed by a reputable approved company proficient in
providing said service at a time to be established by the CE.
All costs and expenses relating to said closed circuit televising shall be
borne at the expense of the owner, developer or contractor, and said televising
tests shall be conducted in the presence of the CE or a duly authorized
representative appointed by him. Findings of the closed circuit television
tests shall be approved or rejected by the CE or his authorized representative.
In the event the CE does not approve the results of the closed circuit
televising of the trunk lines, then ownership of said trunk lines shall not be
accepted by the city and no such trunk line shall be connected to an
interceptor and/or a treatment works.
Nothing hereinabove shall preclude the contractor from utilizing city work
crews and city equipment to satisfy the regulations of this section, provided
that the contractor shall reimburse the city for its out of pocket, labor and
equipment costs in undertaking such televising. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.42. Sewer Connection Procedures
Sec. 7.421. Use Of Public Sewers Required.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit, or allow to be
placed or deposited, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, without the expressed
approval from the director of public works (DPW) that all slug load and federal
effluent limitations have been met and that there are no reasonable alternative
methods of disposal.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the private disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owner of any house, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purpose that requires the installation of
sanitary facilities situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley
or right of way, in which there is now located or may in the future be located
any public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required at his expense to
install suitable facilities therein, including toilets and/or urinals, lavatory
sinks and kitchen sinks, and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper public sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article,
within ninety (90) calendar days after the adoption of and publication of this
article, or upon installation or extension of such public sanitary sewer and
after date of official notice to connect, provided that said public sanitary
sewer is within two hundred feet (200'), or sixty one meters (61m), of the
property line. If such public sanitary sewer benefits other properties, the
city shall enact a recapture article and make best efforts to collect and
return to the owner amounts received from the benefited properties. All public
sanitary sewer extensions shall be made in accordance with part
7.41 of this article.
      1.   Failure to install such facilities and to connect same to the public
sanitary sewer within ninety (90) calendar days after the adoption of and
publication of this article, or upon installation or extension of such public
sanitary sewer and after the date of official notice to connect, shall be
deemed, held and construed as a violation of this provision, punishable as
provided in article IX of this chapter.
      2.   Application for a permit to make a connection to the public sanitary
sewer shall be made by the owner within ninety (90) calendar days of the
adoption of and publication of this article, or upon installation or extension
of such public sanitary sewer and after date of official notice to connect, as
the case may be as provided by section
7.423 of this article.
      3.   In the event of failure upon the part of the owner to make the
described connection within ninety (90) calendar days of the adoption of and
publication of this article, or upon installation or extension of such public
sanitary sewer and after date of official notice to connect, if it shall appear
that such delay is not wilful upon the part of the owner, an official notice in
writing by the city shall be given to the owner to make such connection, served
personally or by certified mail. If the owner fails, neglects and refuses to
make the connection within thirty (30) days of the date of this notice, he
shall be held and deemed to be in violation of this provision, and punishable
as provided in article IX of this chapter.
   E.   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged to any
facility served by the city, without having first complied with the terms of
this article. At minimum, all nonresidential users are subject to the
prohibited discharge standards in section
7.442 of this article, change notification in section
7.486 of this article and hazardous waste notification in section
7.489 of this article, if applicable. Spill prevention/slug control planning
may also be necessary for some nonresidential users as identified in section
7.455 of this article.
   F.   No user(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, stormwater sump
pumps, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface
runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   G.   Inspection required upon transfer of property. Upon transfer of title
to, or transfer or assignment of beneficial interest in, real property located
in the city, inspection of such property shall be required to verify compliance
with part
7.41 of this article. It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy said
property subsequent to said transfer or assignment until the inspection
required herein shall be performed. If after inspection by the building
official or any of his authorized agents the property is determined to be in
compliance with part
7.41 of this article, the city clerk shall issue, without fee, a certificate to
the owner of said property.
   H.   The city of Wood Dale, and specifically the public works department,
shall not be held responsible for damages to personal property caused by the
construction or repair to the city sewers by water or sewage seepage or for any
other reason. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.422. Private Sewage Disposal.
No person shall construct a wastewater treatment facility within the corporate
limits of the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city for the
purpose of treating wastewater and discharging same to a watercourse unless the
following provisions are met:
   A.   Inadequate Capacity: For the purpose of treating nonresidential source
wastes, the city engineer (CE) determines that the wastewater treatment
facilities have inadequate capacity, and issues a permit for the construction
and operation of a wastewater treatment facility. No city permit shall become
effective until:
      1.   The CE has approved the plans and specifications in writing,
      2.   Approval has been obtained from the DuPage County department of
health, as appropriate,
      3.   An IEPA permit issued to construct the facility has been received,
      4.   An IEPA NPDES permit to operate the facility has been issued and
received,
      5.   The installation is completed to the satisfaction of the CE, and
      6.   The final inspection has been completed.
Persons operating a wastewater treatment facility shall file copies of all
operating reports sent to the USEPA and IEPA with the CE and such other reports
as the CE deems necessary.
   B.   Public Sanitary Sewer Not Available: Where a public sanitary sewer is
not available under the provisions of section
7.421 of this article, and the wastewater source to be treated is domestic in
nature, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system employing subsurface absorption facilities.
No person shall construct a private wastewater treatment facility with
subsurface disposal without previous approval from the CE. If approval is given
the person must adhere to the following limitations:
      1.   Permit Requirements:
         a.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the CE. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city which
the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as deemed necessary by the city. A permit and inspection fee as
published in article VIII of this chapter, or reimbursement of costs shall be
paid to the city at the time the application is filed. The permit shall not be
issued until applicable state and county permits are on file.
         b.   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all regulations and provisions of the state
of Illinois private sewage disposal licensing act and code, with the state of
Illinois environmental protection agency and the DuPage County health
department, as appropriate latest revision. No permit shall be issued for any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet. No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
         c.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city.
The city shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and,
in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when the work
is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
The inspection shall be made within two (2) city business days of the receipt
of written notice by the city, except that no inspections will be made at any
time other than regular city working hours.
   C.   Gravity And Conventional Sewer Systems Impractical: Where development
is possible but gravity sewers and conventional sewer systems are not
practical.
Accordingly, it is the policy of the city to approve grinder pump systems on a
discretionary case by case basis. In order to implement a grinder pump system,
a developer or individual homeowner must prove to the city that a grinder pump
system is the only viable option other than a conventional sanitary sewer
system. A permit and inspection fee as published in article VIII of this
chapter shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed. A
permit for a private wastewater treatment facility employing a grinder pump
system shall not be issued until the design and installation is completed to
the satisfaction of the city.
      1.   Installation: The city shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of the construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the building official when the grinder pump system is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
      2.   Operation And Maintenance: The building official shall be entitled
to inspect the grinder pump system if the building official has any reason to
believe that the grinder pump system is not operating properly or pursuant to a
routine inspection protocol used by the building and code enforcement division
of the city. Should the grinder pump system fall into disrepair or otherwise
need maintenance as determined by the city, and the owner refuses to repair,
replace or otherwise fix the grinder pump system to the specifications of the
city, the city may do so at its own expense and obtain reimbursement from the
individual owner. In that regard, and as a condition of obtaining a city permit
for a grinder pump system, the individual owner shall enter into a contractual
agreement indemnifying the city for any costs the city may incur and holding
the city harmless with regard to maintaining the grinder pump system, and
further allow the city reasonable access to the grinder pump system for
inspection purposes.
   D.   Other Provisions:
      1.   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the city.
      2.   As provided in subsection B of this section, at such time as a
public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage
disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the public sanitary sewer
within ninety (90) calendar days in compliance with this chapter. Any septic
tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be
cleaned of sludge within ninety (90) calendar days and filled with suitable
material such as clean bank run gravel or dirt compacted and thereafter
maintained in a safe condition.
      3.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the DuPage
County health department as appropriate. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.423. Building Sewer And Connections.
   A.   Permit Requirements: No person shall construct a new wastewater source
or alter, repair or reconstruct an existing source and connect same to the
wastewater facilities of the city without first making application for the
privilege of making said connection to the city.
      1.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
open into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the building and code enforcement
division of the city, with sign off by the wastewater operations supervisor,
wastewater division (WWOS) and receipt of an IEPA permit when required under 35
IAC 309.
      2.   No addition to or alteration of any building sewer shall be made or
caused to be made by any person without a permit from the building official and
then only through a duly licensed sewer contractor. No permit shall authorize
anything not explicitly stated in the application.
      3.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, stormwater
sump pump, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any violation of
this section after article adoption shall subject the violator to fines as
designated per article VIII of this chapter. Each successive day (24 hour
period) shall be considered a separate violation.
      4.   All disposal by any person into the sanitary sewer system is
unlawful, except those discharges in compliance with federal standards
promulgated pursuant to the federal act, the Illinois environmental protection
act and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, and this code.
      5.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits consisting
of one residential wastewater class and one nonresidential wastewater class as
designated below:
         a.   Residential, and
         b.   Nonresidential, which includes institutional, or commercial and
industrial users, and other nonresidential sources of waste.
For either class, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special
form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the building official and the WWOS. A permit and inspection fee as
defined in article VIII of this chapter shall be paid to the city at the time
the application is filed.
      6.   Persons desiring to construct a new waste source and connect it to
the wastewater facilities of the city shall state the quantity, quality and
rate of discharge into the public sewer or treatment works. A nonresidential
user, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide information
describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type of activity
per section
7.431 of this article. In the case of any fraudulent representation upon the
part of the user, the permit fees will be forfeited and the use of the sewer
stopped.
      7.   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sanitary sewer
connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream
sewage facilities, including sewers, pump stations, and wastewater treatment
works, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently handle
the additional anticipated waste load based on the population equivalent.
      8.   A user will also secure a building permit if the waste source is for
new equipment to be installed in an existing building with an existing sewer
connection.
      9.   Each excavation for any of the purposes set out in this subsection
shall require a separate permit, pursuant to the building code.
Any person who makes any excavation or does any work without first securing the
permit required by this subsection, upon conviction thereof, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, in addition to any other penalty imposed by this article,
shall be liable for the penalties set forth in this code.
      10.   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the applicant. The person installing
the building sewer for the owner shall be a duly licensed plumber or sewer
contractor and shall indemnify the city from loss or damage that may be
directly or indirectly occasioned by said installation. Before a building sewer
permit is issued, the plumber or sewer contractor shall file with the city
clerk an indemnity bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00),
with corporate surety licensed to do business in the state of Illinois, on bond
forms supplied by the city. In addition thereto, the plumber or sewer
contractor shall file with the city clerk a certificate of insurance covering
public liability insurance in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars to
three hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00 - $300,000.00) for bodily injury
and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) covering property damage.
      11.   The building sewer connection permit will be issued for a period of
twenty four (24) months consistent with the IEPA permits.
      12.   Any permit issued in this section may be revoked by article IX of
this chapter.
   B.   Building Sewer Connections (Lateral Line Connections):
      1.   A separate and independent building sewer or lateral line shall be
provided for every building, except that where one building stands at the rear
of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer, but may be done
only with the explicit approval of the building official. In no case shall any
owner be permitted to maintain, without the consent of the building official,
any connection of a building drain to a building sewer located across or under
the property of another.
      2.   An existing building sewer may be used in connection with new
buildings only when it is found, on examination and test by the building
official or WWOS or his designee, to meet all requirements of this chapter. All
costs for this examination shall be borne by the applicant.
      3.   The size, slope, alignment and construction materials of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placement of pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling of the trench shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society Of Testing Materials, "Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual Of Practice No. 9", and "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer
Main Construction In Illinois", shall apply.
      4.   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet
(3') of any bearing wall. No building sewers shall be installed in any place
where they may be subject to freezing temperatures unless adequate provisions
are made to protect them from frost. Changes in direction shall be made only
with properly curbed pipe and fittings, or a manhole, as determined by the
WWOS.
      5.   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer. Where possible, all building sanitary services shall be
"overhead" installations. Buildings having basements will have a pump or
ejector provided to pump the wastewater to the sanitary sewer service for
gravity transport to the sewer main.
      6.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
at an existing stub and conform to the requirements of the building and
plumbing codes, or other applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society Of
Testing Materials, "Water Pollution Control Federation Manual Of Practice No.
9", and "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois". All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
If no stub is available, then a wye or tee shall be installed on the public
sewer by the user, at his expense, subject to inspection and approval by the
city.
   C.   Building Sewer Construction Requirements: Construction of a building
sewer may not be started until fees are paid consistent with section
7.424 of this article and a written permit is issued by the city after issuance
and receipt of an IEPA permit for the project when applicable. It shall be
unlawful to extend any trunk line to be so connected in order to serve
additional buildings without payment to the city of an additional sewer
connection fee for each such additional building or unit within said building.
The following conditions are also required:
      1.   The applicant shall secure an excavation permit from the building
official when appropriate in conformance with the provisions of the building
code.
      2.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city. Failure to
properly barricade will be cause for the job site to be shut down and a fee as
provided in article VIII of this chapter must be paid before any further work
can commence.
      3.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
building official two (2) city business days prior to the start of any
underground piping installation and when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of a qualified duly authorized agent of the city during
regular city working hours.
      4.   Minimum building sanitary sewer service size shall be six inches
(6") in diameter. All cleanouts shall be installed on the owner's property, not
within ten feet (10') of a public sidewalk and not in city right of way. The
maximum distance between cleanouts is one hundred twenty feet (120'). The
building sewer shall be constructed of either PVC or extra heavy cast iron soil
pipe. It is the property owner's responsibility to maintain the cleanout and
cap in a manner to prevent overflows.
      5.   Sewer service lines shall not be connected to manholes for
residential users. All sanitary sewer service lines serving single-family
residences shall have "blind" connections to the sewer main (as stated in
subsection C6 of this section). Only exceptions are when homes are located in a
cul-de-sac and the connection to the sewer main would be impractical. This
exception must be approved by the building official.
      6.   Sanitary sewer line connections shall be one of the following types:
         a.   Type 1 - Vitrified clay wye branches installed in the trunk line
at the time of construction of said trunk line:
            (1)   Connections to existing wye branches shall be made with an
approved type of joint material of the bituminous type or an approved
compression coupling.
            (2)   The connection shall be completely watertight.
            (3)   No connection shall be allowed to any damaged wye branch.
            (4)   In the event damage occurs during the making of the
connection, the plumber shall take the wye branch out of the main sewer and
replace it either by another undamaged wye or by straight vitrified clay pipe.
In the event straight pipe is used in the replacement, type 2 connection
methods shall be used.
Note: Concrete encasement of the wye branch, connection joint, or any other
part of the connection shall not be deemed watertight and shall not be allowed
as a method of repairing a damaged joint.
         b.   Type 2 - Connections of the saddle type installed in the trunk
line.
            (1)   Connections of this type shall be made in a smooth, round
hole, machine drilled into the main pipe. The fitting used in the connection
shall be made in such a manner as to ensure that no protrusion of the fitting
into the trunk line shall result. The connector shall fit perfectly the contour
of the inside of the trunk line and shall be specifically designed to fit the
particular size sewer pipe into which the connection is made.
            (2)   The machine drilled hole shall be of such size to provide
one-eighth inch (1/8") clearance between the outside of the fitting and the
hole. The space thus provided shall be completely filled with joint material.
The space between the shoulder of the fitting and the face of the trunk line
shall be one-eighth inch (1/8") thick and this space shall also be completely
filled with joint material.
            (3)   The joint material used for the type 2 service connection
shall be completely waterproof and shall be capable of withstanding any
condition of stress or strain likely to be encountered in normal sanitary sewer
construction or maintenance.
Note: Concrete encasement will not be considered waterproof.
            (4)   The fitting shall be manufactured of either cast aluminum
alloy, cast iron, or vitrified clay pipe and shall be capable of receiving all
normally used types of pipe for service connections.
            (5)   The type 2 fitting and drilling machine herein described
shall be of the type manufactured by Smith and Loveless, Division, Union Tank
Car Company, Lexana, Kansas, or the approved equal. Tapping and connection
shall be made in the presence of an authorized city inspector.
      7.   Conditions necessary for types 1 and 2 sanitary sewer connections
above are as follows:
         a.   Type 1 connections may be used in connection to existing trunk
lines when the wye branches previously installed are readily and conveniently
available. If the existing wye branches cannot be found readily or are not
located properly for providing the needed service, type 2 connections shall be
made. When new sanitary sewers are constructed, type 1 connections may be made
in cases where the connection is made during construction and before
backfilling of the sanitary sewer trench.
         b.   Type 2 connections shall be made in all cases where services are
installed subsequent to construction of the trunk lines and backfilling
operations in connection therewith. No wye branches shall be installed and
covered up for future use, except when excessive depth, new subdivision design,
or other unusual conditions exist, and then only with prior approval of the CE
and the duly authorized agent.
         c.   The size, slope, alignment, and construction materials of the
lateral line and the methods to be used in excavating, placement of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the city. In the absence of city code provisions or in
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and WPCF "Manual Of Practice No. 9" shall apply.
      8.   Whenever possible, the lateral line shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is either too low to permit gravity flow to the trunk line or
lower than one foot (1') above the crown of the adjacent street, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the interference in order to permit gravity flow therefrom to the
sanitary sewer system.
   D.   Sumps And Ejectors:
      1.   Building drains below the level of the lateral line shall discharge
into a tightly covered sump, bilge, or ejector pit so located as to receive the
discharge of such drains by gravity. Pumps, ejectors, or other mechanical
devices shall be provided to lift and discharge the contents of sumps or
ejector pits into the lateral line. Such pumps, ejectors, or other mechanical
devices shall operate automatically. A backwater valve shall be provided in the
outlet line of every sump or ejector pit. The waste line from the sump or
ejector pump shall be placed at an elevation eighteen inches (18") from the
ceiling of the room in which it is installed before connecting to the soil or
waste stack or building drain to said sump or ejector pump.
      2.   Every sump, bilge or ejector pit within a building receiving the
discharge from sanitary drains, stormwater or combined drains shall be of cast
iron, equally durable metal, acid resisting material or reinforced concrete.
Every sump pit receiving the discharge from open jointed subsoil drainage
systems only shall be of cast iron, equally durable metal, reinforced concrete,
vitrified clay tile or masonry.
      3.   Every ejector sump or bilge pit shall have a vent equal in size to
the vent pipe normally used for the fixtures discharging into it, in the event
soil waste is to be received, and not less than four inches (4") in diameter.
      4.   Water pressure ejectors or siphons shall not be installed.
      5.   Only building drains located below the lateral line shall be
connected to the ejector and the ones above shall discharge by gravity.
      6.   All drain outlets lower than one foot (1') above the crown of the
adjacent street shall be discharged to the sewer by a sewage ejector.
      7.   In no instance may a stormwater pump, footing drain pump or
downspout be connected directly or indirectly or conveyed to any sanitary
sewer.
   E.   Sanitary Sewer Uses Outside Of The Corporate Limits Of The City: There
are existing agreements for sanitary sewer uses outside the corporate limits of
the city. No new permit shall be issued for the tapping into or use of sanitary
sewer facility under the jurisdiction of the city for any location outside of
the corporate limits of the city unless approved by the city council. Costs and
expenses to retain independent review by a consulting engineer for issues
arising from potential connections shall be at the expense of the property
owner.
   F.   Sewer Installation Acceptance:
      1.   A one year warranty will be submitted to the city by the contractor
doing the sewer installation against all defects, including poor workmanship,
improper installation, restoration items (turf, sidewalk, pavement, etc.), or
material failure. The warranty will require the contractor to correct any
problems with the installation discovered during that one year period.
      2.   The applicant for the lateral line permit shall notify the building
official two (2) city business days in advance when the lateral line is ready
for inspection and connection to the trunk line.
      3.   Each and every part of a sewer connection shall be inspected and
approved by the building official before being concealed or backfilled.
It shall be unlawful to fill an excavation without having first received the
written approval of the building official as provided in this article, and any
person violating this provision shall (in addition to suffering upon conviction
the fine herein imposed) expose the sewer for inspection by the building
official at no cost to the city.
      4.   In any case where a building official finds the work on any sewer
not accomplished as herein provided, he shall serve written notice on the
person to whom the permit is issued, stating wherein such work is deficient and
ordering said person to remedy such defect within twenty four (24) hours.
In the event such person fails to comply therewith, the inspector shall cause
such defect to be corrected at the expense of the person to whom the permit was
issued.
      5.   An inspection fee as identified in article VIII of this chapter
shall be paid to the city treasurer as a fee for each inspection made by the
building official.
      6.   A video recording will be required of the entire length of the sewer
service from the building to the main sewer including the connection into the
main sewer. The video shall be in a format readily viewable by the city and
shall be provided to the city.
   G.   Maintenance And Repair:
      1.   The proper repair and operation of a building sewer or lateral line
to the point of connection to the sanitary sewer system shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the premises served by the sanitary sewer
system.
      2.   It is the responsibility of the property owner to maintain the
entirety of all building sewers or lateral lines serving such owner's property,
including all sections thereof located in the parkway or under the street to
the point of connection of such building sewer or lateral line(s) to the trunk
line.
      3.   No connection permit will be required for the removal of stoppage in
water pipes, or for replacing broken or worn building sewers or lateral lines,
provided such building sewers conform to the regulations contained in this
article. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.424. Fees.
The following types of fees shall be charged for permitting and constructing a
new wastewater source and connecting it to the wastewater facilities of the
city. All review, inspection and connection fees shall be based upon current
fees identified in article VIII of this chapter and shall be reviewed and
updated annually.
   A.   Review And Connection Fee: A review and connection fee for a sewer
permit shall be paid to the city at the time the residential application is
issued. Nonresidential fees will be on an individual case basis measured by the
impact of the application on the current POTW capacity. A minimum sanitary
sewer connection fee shall be established for any nonresidential users at four
(4) population equivalents (PE). The first inspection that is required for a
service is separate from the review fee. Additional inspection fees shall be
paid for additional inspections where a building official finds that the work
on any sewer connection is deficient.
   B.   Inspection Fee: An inspection fee shall be paid for any additional
inspections. This includes, but is not limited to, inspections of sampling
manhole, common interceptors, flow metering or sampling equipment, garbage
grinders, grease, oil and sand interceptors, and grease traps. A separate
review fee may be charged based on the cost and expense to review equalization
and/or pretreatment facilities required at a nonresidential user.
   C.   Waiver Requests: A review fee shall be paid for review of any waiver
requests allowed under subsections
7.427B and
7.453F of this article.
   D.   Connection Permit Fees: The fee for each sewer connection permit shall
be in the amount set forth in article VIII of this chapter. Such permit shall
not be issued until the payment has been made to the city for the fees outlined
in each subsection for each building to be served by means of such connection,
and it shall be unlawful to extend any trunk line to be so connected in order
to serve additional buildings without payment to the city of an additional
sewer connection fee for each such building or unit with said building.
   E.   Connection Fees Involving Nonresidential Strength Wastewater:
      1.   PE Determination:
         a.   The WWOS may require nonresidential users to report to the WWOS
concentrations and flow rates of wastewater discharged to the city sanitary
sewer system. Flow rate averages will be calculated based on the number of
actual days discharged. For wastewater the strength of which exceeds normal
residential wastewater as defined as "population equivalent" in section
7.101 of this chapter in any constituent, the fees shall be based as follows:
            (1)   A PE connection fee shall be calculated on the basis of the
impact on the wastewater treatment works as the equivalent of the highest PE of
the three (3) parameters: flow, BOD or TSS.
            (2)   In the event that the wastewater exhibits a ratio of COD to
BOD that is greater than 3.0, the BOD PE will be calculated on the basis of
0.33 of the COD value.
            (3)   The difference between the connection fee based on water
meter size and the wastewater connection fee based on PE shall be identified as
the strength connection. In the event that the PE connection fee is larger than
the water meter size based connection fee, the strength connection fee will be
added to the water meter size connection fee.
         b.   When the volume and strength of the wastewater to be discharged
to the public sanitary sewers is not known at the time of the connection, the
fee shall be estimated and adjusted to reflect actual conditions during the
billing period after a full year of operation of all equipment.
         c.   The volume and strength of the wastewater for fee purposes shall
be based on the maximum actual daily discharge of constituents.
         d.   When a connection is made based on the applicant's statement that
the strength of the wastewater does not exceed residential wastewater in any
constituent, but at the end of the billing period after a full year of
operation of all equipment, it is determined that the wastewater does exceed
residential wastewater in strength, the WWOS and building official may accept
or reject the wastewater and back charge the applicant for fees plus applicable
penalties for the nonresidential wastewater or have the service disconnected
and the premises closed.
         e.   The WWOS may review nonresidential users' flow and loadings on an
intermittent frequency, normally every two (2) years, to identify increases to
the baseline PE. The WWOS and building official may bill the nonresidential
user, for increases to the baseline, a connection fee as defined in article
VIII of this chapter. On payment of the fee, the property baseline shall be
adjusted to the newly established PE.
   F.   Liability Of Owner:
      1.   In case of emergency, the city may repair or order the repair of any
interference from the premises served thereby, and if it does so, the cost of
such repair work shall be repaid to the city by the owner of the premises
served, which cost shall be treated and collected in the same manner and with
the same remedies as for collection of charges for sewer services.
      2.   Any maintenance or repair work performed by the city on any lateral
line shall be paid for at the city's cost by the owner or the occupant (both of
whom shall be liable for the cost thereof) of the property served by such
lateral line.
   G.   Properties Outside Corporate Limits: The connection fee calculated for
any user not located within the corporate limits of the city is listed in
article VIII of this chapter. On payment of the fee, the property baseline
shall be adjusted to the newly established PE.
   H.   Fees Set Forth: All review, inspection and connection fees are set
forth in article VIII of this chapter and may be reviewed and adjusted by the
city from time to time. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.425. Monitoring Facilities.
   A.   An inspection fee as provided in section
7.424 of this article shall be paid to the city prior to issuance of the permit
should it be determined that the user is required to install any of the
following structures:
      1.   Sampling Manhole Requirements: All users located in areas zoned
industrial and/or business park and such other users as required by the WWOS,
except residential users, shall install a sampling manhole for each separate
discharge in the building sewer in accordance with the plans and specifications
approved by the building official. Each manhole shall be situated on the user's
premises in an easement dedicated to the city.
The sampling manhole shall be located on the sewer connection pipe at a point
where there are no changes in grade or alignment for at least five feet (5')
upstream and downstream from the manhole. The grade (slope) of the pipe shall
not exceed one percent (1%) (or 1 foot per 100 feet) through the manhole and
for a distance of five feet (5') upstream and downstream from the manhole.
There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole to allow accurate
sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The manhole shall be
installed and maintained by the owner/user at his or her sole expense so as to
be safe and accessible to the city at all times. The failure of a user to keep
its monitoring facility in good working order shall not be grounds for the user
to claim that sample results are unrepresentative of its discharge.
         a.   Where such a sampling manhole location would be impractical or
cause extreme hardship on the user, the WWOS may authorize the manhole to be
constructed in the public right of way, provided that the manhole is located so
that it shall not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles. If a
sampling manhole is located in a parking lot, a permanent barricade, such as a
vertical pipe, shall be placed around the manhole to prevent vehicles from
driving or parking over the sampling manhole cover.
         b.   The WWOS and building official may postpone the installation of
the sampling manhole when specific circumstances (e.g., weather) prevent the
installation of a manhole.
         c.   A postponement for a sampling manhole will be handled on a case
by case basis by the WWOS and building official when it is determined that the
discharge is solely from a residential source and the site is not in a zoned
business park/industrial area.
         d.   When a postponement for a sampling manhole installation is
granted by the city, an affidavit will be signed by the property owner to
install the sampling manhole at a later date should business practices change
at the location where the manhole installation was postponed.
         e.   The WWOS may determine subclasses of business that do not require
the installation of sampling manholes and will advise the building official of
such subclasses. Sampling manholes will always be required in zoned business or
industrial parks.
      2.   Liquid Quantity Measurements: All significant industrial users may
be required to install an open channel flow measuring device in said sampling
manhole. When required, the sampling chamber shall contain a Palmer-Bowlus or
Parshall flume or equivalent, unless a weir or similar device is approved by
the city.
The city may, at its option, based on the water usage and/or waste loadings,
require the user to install a device with a recording and totalizing register
for measurement of the liquid quantity. The device shall include a circular
chart recorder, suitable to record seven (7) calendar days of flow, or provide
a computerized chart that is acceptable to the city. The equipment required to
indicate, record and totalize the flow shall be located in a warm dry location
and be accessible to the city for reading. This equipment shall be installed
and maintained by the user at the user's sole expense. Should the requirement
be made, the user shall complete installation of the flume and secondary flow
measuring device based on the installation schedule approved for such device by
the city.
The user shall be required to calibrate and maintain the flow metering
equipment in accordance with the manufacturer's recommended procedures and
frequencies. Users who operate flow measuring devices will submit the procedure
for operation and maintenance (O&M) to the city. The user shall further
document O&M in a log which shall be available for inspection by city
personnel. At minimum, the user shall submit a semiannual calibration report
performed by an outside representative by the deadline defined in the user's
discharge permit. The user may be required to submit flow records to the
pretreatment coordinator monthly.
      3.   Sampling Equipment: The city may, at its option, based on water
usage and/or waste loadings or when the waste loads cannot be accurately
evaluated by time composite samples, require the user to install sampling
equipment. This equipment shall be installed and maintained by the user at his
sole expense.
Users shall submit the procedure for O&M to the city. The user shall further
document O&M in a log which shall be available for inspection by city
personnel. At minimum, the user shall submit an annual report confirming the
accurate operation of the equipment performed by an outside representative by
the deadline defined in the user's discharge permit. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.426. Additional Structures Required For Use Of Public Sewers.
   A.   An inspection fee as provided by section
7.424 of this article and in article VIII of this chapter shall be paid to the
city prior to issuance of the permit should it be determined that the user is
required to install any of the following structures:
      1.   Garbage Grinders: Garbage is required to be properly shredded in
order to be approved to be discharged to the public sewer. Wastes classified as
properly shredded garbage contain all particles being carried freely under the
flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater
than one- half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any dimension. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three- fourths (3/4)
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to review and approval
of the city. The discharge of grinders is prohibited to be connected to a
grease interceptor.
      2.   Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors: Interceptors shall be provided in
services connected to the city where it is determined that they are necessary
for the proper handling of the wastewater containing excessive amounts of
grease, oil and sand, except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interception units shall be of
type and capacity approved by the city and shall be so located to be easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. Oil and sand interceptors used for
petroleum, grease and oils may be located inside the building. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the owner at the owner's expense.
      3.   Acids And Alkalines: Laboratory and facilities commonly using acid
or alkaline chemicals or compounds shall install a neutralizing basin. All
basins shall be of type and capacity approved by the city and shall be so
located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Equipment and devices installed under this section shall not be considered to
provide pretreatment to wastewater. Any user operating devices installed in
this section shall submit operating data as may be required by the city.
   B.   If the city requires the equalization or pretreatment of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the city, and shall comply with the requirements of all
applicable codes, regulations, ordinances and laws. Said facilities shall also
be subject to approval by IEPA consistent with IEPA regulations.
Where flow equalizing or pretreatment facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
his expense. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.427. Food Service Establishments.
   A.   Grease Interceptors And Traps: GIs or GTs (collectively referred to as
grease interceptive devices, or GIDs) are required to be installed in FSEs. All
GIDs shall be of a type and capacity approved by the building official based on
an evaluation of the volume and characteristics of the discharge in conjunction
with the operating plan of the FSE. An inspection fee as provided in section
7.424 of this article and in article VIII of this chapter shall be required
should it be determined an FSE shall install GI or GT.
      1.   Installation Requirements:
         a.   Newly Constructed: All newly constructed FSEs shall install an
exterior GID prior to operation of the facility.
         b.   Common Interceptors: Common interceptors are required to be
installed when the tenants or purchasers of subproperties that are unknown by
the complex owner and zoning allows the build out of an FSE in said properties.
The owner of the property on which the common interceptor is located shall be
primarily responsible for the maintenance, upkeep, and repair of the common
interceptor.
         c.   Existing FSE: All existing FSEs may be required to install a GID
at the request of the WWOS. The WWOS may require a GID to be installed or
modified in an existing FSE within ninety (90) calendar days of notification by
the city where the FSE has caused or contributed to overflows and/or blockages,
when any reconstruction, rebuilding, or remodeling of fifty percent (50%) or
more of the building occurs, or when streetscapes or street/sewer replacements
are installed. The WWOS may require a new GID to be installed when the facility
has an undersized, irreparable, or defective GI or GT. In the event that winter
weather will impact the installation of a GID, the WWOS may grant an extension
of the installation schedule to a maximum of one hundred eighty (180) calendar
days.
         d.   Existing FSE Where Hot Spots Or Blockages Have Occurred: GIDs
will be required to be installed within ninety (90) calendar days of a notice
by the city if hot spots or blockages have occurred. GTs interior to the
building may be required as an interim measure to the installation of an
exterior GID. Such GT will be required to be installed within from five (5) to
thirty (30) calendar days, as determined by the WWOS based upon the nature of
the hot spot or blockage, after a notice by the city.
      2.   Location: All GIDs shall be so located to be easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. All GIs will be provided exterior to the building for
all new construction and, when feasible, at existing FSE. Exterior GIs shall
not be located in drive-through lanes.
      3.   Sizing:
         a.   Each FSE GID will be sized using a formula provided by the WWOS
so that it will continuously produce an effluent containing less than the
action level of fats, oil and grease (FOG) as provided for by section
7.442 of this article.
         b.   The minimum capacity of any one GID unit shall be five hundred
(500) gallons and the maximum capacity of a single GID unit shall be one
thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons. Where sufficient capacity cannot be
achieved with a single unit, installation of GID in series shall be required.
      4.   Twenty Five Percent Requirement: Every GID shall provide for a
minimum hydraulic retention time of twenty four (24) minutes at actual peak
flow between the influent and effluent baffles, with twenty five percent (25%)
of the total design hydraulic depth of the GI being allowed for any food
derived solids to settle or accumulate and floatable grease derived materials
to rise and accumulate, identified as a "solids blanket" and "grease cap",
respectively.
      5.   Access Manholes: Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of twenty
four inches (24"), shall be provided over each GID chamber and each sanitary
tee. The access manholes shall extend at least to finished grade and be
designed to and maintained to prevent water inflow or infiltration. The
manholes shall also have readily removable covers to facilitate inspection,
grease removal and wastewater sampling activities.
      6.   Connection Prohibitions: Non-grease laden sources are not allowed to
be connected to the sewer lines connected to a GID. At minimum, sanitary
wastewaters, vegetable preparation sinks, dishwashers and food waste disposal
units shall not be connected to or discharged into any GID.
      7.   Sign Off Inspection: Prior to the initial operation of any FSE, the
GID shall be inspected by the city and a sign off will be issued by the city.
Notification will be made by the FSE to the building official during normal
business hours of the city. Inspections will be made normally by the city
within two (2) city business days of the notice. The FSE will be required to
make appropriate changes prior to initial operation, in the event that the GID
does not meet requirements.
      8.   Modifications: The WWOS may make determinations of GID adequacy,
need, design, appropriateness, application, location, modification(s), and
conditional usage based on review of all relevant information regarding GID
performance, facility site, and building plan review by all regulatory
reviewing agencies, and may require repairs to or modification or replacement
of the GID.
   B.   Grease Interceptive Device Waivers: Waivers that are available to FSE
are identified below. A request for a waiver is required to be filed with the
building official on a form provided by the city and an FSE waiver review fee
will be required at the time of the filing as provided in section
7.424 of this article and defined in article VIII of this chapter. Waiver
requests are not considered to have been filed until the request has been
reviewed and determined to be complete. If the building official fails to act
on a completed waiver request within forty five (45) calendar days, a request
for waiver shall be deemed to be denied. While a waiver may result in an
alteration of the GI requirements, it does not avoid the requirement to prevent
prohibitive discharges through alternate technologies and/or best management
plan practices.
      1.   Existing External FSE GID Installation Waiver: The requirement to
install and to properly operate and maintain a GID may be conditionally stayed
(that is, delayed subject to specific terms) in its implementation by the WWOS.
Terms and conditions for application of a stay to an FSE shall be set forth in
a permit. The terms may include the requirement to install GT(s) inside the
facility, alternate technology and/or the use of best management practices. The
waiver will not apply to any existing facility that has not operated as an FSE
for the last twelve (12) consecutive months prior to the adoption of this
article. Such facilities will be required to install a GID in order to operate
an FSE in the city sanitary sewer service area. Interior GT(s) are required to
be installed within one month of waiver approval in the event that they do not
exist at the time the waiver request is submitted.
      2.   Common GID Waiver: Where a waiver is requested for installation of a
common GID, a permit will be issued to the property owner of the common GID
site and general permits will also be required at each FSE for best management
practices requirements.
      3.   Limited Food Preparation Establishments GID Installation Waiver:
Requests for waivers for installations by a limited food preparation
establishment will be handled on a case by case basis by the building official.
      4.   Constraint Waivers At Existing FSE: Where the installation of a GID
is not feasible and no equivalent alternative pretreatment can be installed, a
waiver from the installation of the GI requirement may be granted. The building
official's determination to grant the waiver will be based upon, but not
limited to, evaluation of the following conditions:
         a.   There is no adequate space for installation and/or maintenance of
a GID;
         b.   There is no adequate slope for gravity flow between the kitchen
plumbing fixtures and the GID and/or between the GID and the private collection
lines or public sewer; or
         c.   A waiver from GID installation cannot be granted to allow
alternative pretreatment technology that is, at least, equally effective in
controlling the FOG discharge in lieu of a GT.
If a constraint waiver is granted, the building official will institute the
grease disposal mitigation fee for the user as defined in articles I and VIII
of this chapter.
      5.   Alternate Technology Waiver: The use of automatic grease removal
systems is permissible only upon the written approval of the building official
and the DuPage County health department. Approval of the device shall be based
on demonstrated (proven) removal efficiencies and reliability of operation. The
city may approve these types of devices dependent on manufacturer's
specifications on a case by case basis. Any user operating an alternative
technology may be subject to additional operational requirements and shall
operate the system in such a manner that attainment of the grease wastewater
discharge limit, as measured from the unit's outlet, is consistently achieved
as required by the building official. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.428. Sewer Line Maintenance/Replacement.
   A.   The property owner is responsible for the maintenance and repair of a
private sewer line from its structure to the main sewer or public sewer,
including the connection into the main/public sewer.
   B.   In the event the property owner finds it necessary to excavate a
private sewer line for maintenance or replacement, it shall be the property
owner's responsibility.
   C.   A building permit is needed in those instances when property owners
have to excavate. The property owner will be responsible for the restoration of
the street (surface and subsurface), curb, and sidewalk as a result of the
digging out of these during an excavation.
   D.   In those instances described in subsection C of this section, tunneling
under the curb and sidewalk is recommended whenever practical. Sidewalk and
curb must be cut when removal is required.
   E.   All work, as it is related to the replacement and/or repair of a
private sewer line, shall be in conformance with the city standard construction
specifications and will be inspected by a duly authorized agent of the city
during the repair and replacement. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.429. Automobile Service, Repair And Fuel Dispensing Properties.
   A.   Sampling Manhole; Triple Basin Oil Separator: When property use
involves automotive repair or handling, sale, and dispensing of petroleum
products and/or automotive fluids, all users shall have installed a sampling
manhole consistent with the requirements of section
7.425 of this article. All sampling manholes of this type shall be monitored
throughout the year in a manner secured and coordinated by the pretreatment
coordinator. Additionally, any property involved in the repair or servicing of
automobiles, trucks, or engine powered equipment shall install a triple basin
oil separator in the sanitary line (per state of Illinois plumbing codes)
servicing the repair area of the building. This system shall be cleaned,
serviced and inspected at least four (4) times per year by the owner at the
owner's expense. The owner may petition the pretreatment coordinator to reduce
the cleaning and servicing of the triple basin oil separator to two (2) times
per year upon demonstration that the amount removed quarterly of the basin
capacity is significantly less than the twenty five percent (25%) requirement
as defined in subsection
7.613C of this chapter and that the discharge does not exceed the oil and
grease local limit. Conversely, the system may be required by the pretreatment
coordinator to be cleaned at a more frequent rate if the property cannot meet
the requirements.
   B.   Separate Drainage System: When property use involves automotive repair
or handling, sale and dispensing of petroleum products and/or automotive
fluids, there shall be a separate drainage system constructed to collect all
fluids from the areas associated with pump islands and under pump canopies.
This separate drainage system shall collect these fluids and hold them in a
separate sealed tank for testing and removal by approved special waste handling
methods. All fuel dispensing equipment, piping and venting shall be installed
in accordance with the standards listed below and be in accordance and in
compliance with the current adopted building, electrical, and fire codes:
      1.   "Guidance Manual For LUST Cleanups In Illinois", September 1989; and
"Leaking Underground Storage Tank Manual", September 1991; both published by
IEPA, 2200 Churchill Road, P.O. Box 19276, Springfield, IL 62794-9276.
      2.   "Recommended Practices For Installation Of Underground Liquid
Storage Systems, PEI/RP 100", 1994; published by Petroleum Equipment Institute,
P.O. Box 2380, Tulsa, OK 74101.
      3.   "Flammable And Combustible Liquid Code", NFPA/30, 1993; "Automotive
And Marine Services Station Code", NFPA/30A, 1993; national electric code,
NFPA/70, 1993; and "Underground Leakage Of Flammable And Combustible Liquids",
NFPA/329, 1992; all published by National Fire Protection Association, 1
Batterymarch Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, MA 02269-9904.
      4.   "Underground Storage Tanks; Technical Requirements And State Program
Approval; Final Rules", 40 CFR parts 280 and 281, part II, Federal Register,
Friday, September 23, 1988; and "Musts For USTs: A Summary Of The New
Regulations For Underground Storage Tank Systems, And Hazardous Waste
Management Standards", Federal Register, July 14, 1986, both published by
USEPA, Office Of Underground Storage Tanks, 401 M Street, S.W., Washington, DC
20460.
      5.   "Rules Of The Illinois State Fire Marshall", parts 170 and 180,
title 41, chapter 1, state of Illinois, Office Of The Fire Marshall, 1035
Stevenson Parkway, Springfield, IL 62703.
   C.   Jurisdiction:
      1.   These requirements shall be met by any property use associated with
automotive repair or the handling, sale or dispensing of petroleum products
and/or automotive fluids, where any water main, wastewater or stormwater
facility is under the jurisdiction of the city, regardless of whether or not
such property lies within the corporate limits of the city.
      2.   The requirements of this section shall not be applied to existing
property uses, except that whenever a permit shall be required for new
construction or reconstruction of a property use associated with automotive
repair or the handling, sale or dispensing of petroleum products and/or
automotive fluids, involving placement, replacement, reconfiguration, removal
or modification of any fueling area, or a discharge has occurred that does not
meet the local limits, or a blockage has been caused or contributed to,
compliance with the provisions of this section shall be required. (Ord. O-15-
001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.43. Information Required Of Nonresidential Users
Sec. 7.431. Initial Survey (Questionnaire).
   A.   Requirements: The initial survey shall be completed in order to ensure
that nonresidential users of the wastewater treatment works of the city adhere
to and comply with the restrictions and prohibitions pertaining to pretreatment
standards of wastes discharged into the wastewater treatment works of the city
set forth in part
7.44 of this article, spill control of raw materials, and intermediates and
waste as set forth in section
7.455 of this article and to facilitate the city's investigation of apparent or
suspected violations thereof. The requirements for the initial survey are as
follows:
      1.   All existing or new nonresidential users in areas receiving sewer
service from the city, shall complete and submit an initial survey on a form
provided by the city when requested by the city.
      2.   All users, as defined in subsection A1 of this section, who are
seeking to establish a new account for sanitary sewer service from the city or
to establish a new connection to the wastewater treatment works of the city
shall file a completed initial survey with the city as a condition to the
establishment of such new sanitary sewer service account or connection to the
wastewater treatment works of the city.
      3.   The initial survey shall contain a statement affirming the truth,
completeness, and correctness of information submitted, signed by an
"authorized representative of the user" as defined in section
7.101 of this chapter.
      4.   All users defined above that fail to complete and submit to the city
an initial survey shall be in violation of the provisions of this section and
shall be subject to all of the applicable penalties thereof, including, but
expressly not limited to, the revocation of all permits and approvals
previously granted to the commercial or industrial user in question for the
discharge of sewage or wastewater into the wastewater treatment works of the
city.
   B.   Food Service Establishment (FSE) Survey: The initial FSE survey shall
ensure that food service establishments using the wastewater treatment works of
the city adhere to and comply with the restrictions and prohibitions pertaining
to pretreatment standards of wastes discharged into the wastewater treatment
works of the city set forth in part
7.44 of this article and to spill control of raw materials, intermediates and
waste as set forth in section
7.455 of this article, and shall facilitate the city's investigation of
apparent or suspected violations thereof. The requirements for the initial FSE
survey are as follows:
      1.   All existing or new FSEs, including those in areas receiving sewer
service from the city, shall complete and submit an initial FSE survey on a
form provided by the city when requested by the city.
      2.   The initial FSE survey shall cover at a minimum information that
includes a description of processes, kitchen fixtures, water usage and
wastewater characteristics, plus grease usage and management for the facility.
This information will be required to be submitted and will be evaluated by the
city for determination of the requirement to issue a general FSE discharge
permit or FSEP per parts
7.46 and
7.47 of this article.
      3.   All new FSEs that establish a new account for sanitary sewer service
or those that transfer an existing FSE account in the city shall file a
completed initial FSE survey with the city as a condition to the establishment
of such new or transferred sanitary sewer service account or connection to the
wastewater treatment works of the city.
      4.   The initial survey shall contain a statement affirming the truth,
completeness and correctness of information submitted, signed by an "authorized
representative of the user" as defined in section
7.101 of this chapter. In the event that the city obtains the information
through a site inspection(s) but the initial survey is not signed by an
authorized representative, the city may proceed to determine classification and
permit as appropriate based on the information obtained at the site.
      5.   All users defined above that fail to complete and submit to the city
an initial survey within thirty (30) calendar days of notice by the city shall
be in violation of the provisions of this section and shall be subject to all
of the applicable penalties thereof, including, but expressly not limited to,
the revocation of all permits and approvals previously granted to the user in
question for the discharge of sewage or wastewater into the wastewater
treatment works of the city. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.432. Affirmation To Initial Survey.
   A.   The city shall determine, based on building, zoning and occupant usage,
whether the nonresidential user or FSE shall be required to file an affirmation
of survey every fifth year. The users' status will be defined by the city after
review of the initial survey submitted as required in section
7.431 of this article.
   B.   Any nonresidential user or FSE, as defined in section
7.431 of this article, having filed an initial survey where the information
remains true, complete and correct in all respects, may be required to submit a
statement that the information remains current, as follows:
      1.   The statement is required to be signed by an authorized
representative of the firm.
      2.   The statement will be due normally not later than January 31 of the
year required for all nonresidential users, except that FSEs will be required
to file the statement normally not later than June 30 of each year required.
      3.   All users defined above that fail to file an affirmation with the
city shall be in violation of the provisions of this section and shall be
subject to all of the applicable penalties thereof, including, but expressly
not limited to, the revocation of all permits and approvals previously granted
to the commercial or industrial user in question for the discharge of sewage or
wastewater into the wastewater treatment works of the city. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-
15-2015)
Sec. 7.433. Reports Of Changed Conditions.
   A.   Any user, as defined in section
7.431 of this article, that makes any changes determined to be substantial, as
defined in section
7.486 of this article, shall report said changes as required in section 7.486
of this article. Reports of changed conditions are required to be made prior to
the change. The user may be required to file an updated survey as a result of
changed conditions. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.434. Additional Survey Information.
   A.   SIU Or NSRU Determination: After review of the initial survey completed
per section
7.431 of this article, all nonresidential users that the city has determined to
have the potential to be defined as a significant industrial user (SIU) or a
nonsignificant regulated user (NSRU) shall be required to complete and file a
more detailed wastewater survey on a form provided by the city. At a minimum, a
description of processes, water usage and wastewater characteristics for the
facility will be required to be submitted whether discharged or not. This
information will be evaluated by the city for determination of the requirement
to issue an individual wastewater discharge permit per parts
7.46 and
7.47 of this article or a general wastewater discharge permit.
   B.   Periodic Updates Of Wastewater Survey Information: The information
provided in the wastewater surveys in section
7.431 of this article may be required to be revised and/or updated upon the
occurrence of the following:
      1.   A report of changed conditions has been filed as required in section
7.486 of this article,
      2.   An application for a wastewater discharge permit is required to be
filed per parts
7.46 and
7.47 of this article,
      3.   A report of wastewater discharge permit transfer has been filed as
required in section
7.475 of this article, or
      4.   A reissuance of a wastewater discharge permit occurs per section
7.477 of this article.
   C.   Category Specific Survey: In addition to the wastewater survey defined
in section
7.431 of this article, and this section, categorical industrial users may be
required to complete a category specific survey that identifies subprocesses
and processes performed at the site in order to define which subprocesses and
processes are regulated by a USEPA effluent guideline category. (Ord. O-15-001,
1-15-2015)
Part 7.44. General Discharge Requirements
Sec. 7.441. Applicability.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause a discharge to any facility
served by the city, without having first complied with the terms of this
article.
   B.   Users must meet the most stringent applicable requirements and
limitations at all times, either as set forth in this article or in individual
wastewater discharge permits, federal pretreatment standards as established by
40 CFR 403, or state of Illinois standards as codified in 35 IAC 307. Said
users shall provide the necessary wastewater treatment to achieve compliance
with all national categorical pretreatment standards and requirements within
the time limitations, as specified by the federal pretreatment regulations, and
with any other pretreatment standards including local limits and requirements
by applicable deadlines.
   C.   Each FSE shall provide wastewater pretreatment and implement best
management practices as necessary to comply with this article and shall achieve
compliance with all local limits and the prohibitions set out in sections
7.445 and
7.442, respectively, of this article within the time limitations specified by
the pretreatment coordinator. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.442. Prohibited Discharge Standards.
These general prohibitions apply to all users of a POTW whether or not they are
subject to a categorical pretreatment standard or any other national, state, or
local pretreatment standard:
   A.   Contributing Contaminants: No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed, either directly or indirectly, to the city sewage works any
pollutant or wastewater contaminant which will pass through or cause
interference with, inhibition of, or upset to the operation of the POTW;
   B.   Substitutes For Adequate Treatment: No user shall attempt to dilute a
discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment or
increase the use of potable or process water in any other way in order to
achieve compliance with a pretreatment standard or requirement, except where
expressly authorized to do so by an applicable categorical pretreatment
standard and in a wastewater discharge permit; and
   C.   Introducing Pollutants: No user shall introduce, or cause to be
introduced, either directly or indirectly, any of the following described
pollutants, substances, or wastewater into the POTW:
      1.   Any unpolluted water including, but not limited to, uncontaminated
noncontact cooling water, stormwater, surface and ground waters, subsurface
drainage, roof runoff, spill contaminant area runoff, footing drains, or
construction drainage except as specifically permitted by the pretreatment
coordinator;
      2.   Any pollutant which, by reason of their nature or quantity, are or
may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction, to cause safety hazards,
fire, or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the facilities or
personnel of the city or to the operation of city POTW. Materials considered in
this regard are those with a closed cup flashpoint of less than one hundred
forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40
CFR 261.21;
      3.   Any solid, solid waste, or viscous substance which shall or may
cause obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference to the operation
of the wastewater system. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to:
waste cooking oil, grease, grease interceptor wastes, garbage with particles
greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any direction, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains or hops, paper, wood,
plastics, residues from gas, tar or asphalt, residues from refining or
processing of fuel or lubricating oils, mud, glass grinding or polishing waste,
fatty acids or esters of fatty acids, or any material which can be disposed of
as trash;
      4.   Any wastewater containing noxious or malodorous solids, liquids, or
gases which, either singly or by their interaction, are capable of creating a
public nuisance or hazard to life or to interfering with, inhibiting, or
upsetting any operation of POTW, including, but not limited to, the prevention
of entry into sewers for their maintenance and repair;
      5.   Any pollutant(s) which results in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors, or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems or which necessitates the city taking special
measures to counteract and/or alleviate the impact of the pollutant(s);
      6.   Any wastewater containing substances in sufficient quantity to
interfere with the POTW;
      7.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction, to injure, interfere with or upset any
wastewater treatment processes or facilities; constitute a hazard to humans or
animals; or exceed limitations as set forth in the act as now existing as it
may be amended;
      8.   Any wastewater having a temperature which shall inhibit biological
activity in the city's POTW facilities, but in no case heat in such a quantity
that the influent temperature at the sewage treatment plant to which the user
discharges will exceed forty degrees Celsius (40°C) (104°F);
      9.   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or higher than 10.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment or personnel in the system. The pH limits are
instantaneous limits that shall be met at all times and are not subject to
averaging;
      10.   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants, released in a
discharge at a flow rate and/or concentration (including any slug load), either
singly or by interaction with other pollutants, which may interfere with,
inhibit, or upset the POTW;
      11.   Ammonia nitrogen in amounts that would cause a violation of the
water quality standards of the receiving waters of the POTW;
      12.   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, aqueous
firefighting foam or other substances which may cause excessive foaming in the
collection system or the treatment process that result in POTW interferences
and/or pass-through and/or is shown to inhibit the nitrification process.
Wastes prohibited in this section shall not be processed or stored in such a
manner that they could be discharged to the POTW;
      13.   Additives for the purpose of emulsifying or biologically/chemically
treating FOG for grease remediation or as a supplement to interceptor
maintenance that have a content of enzymes, surfactants or solvents that is
greater than ten percent (10%) of the volume without the written consent of the
pretreatment coordinator;
      14.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through;
      15.   Wastewater containing any organism, including viruses, considered
pathogenic and/or detrimental to process organisms other than by direct
excrement and any other wastes defined as medical wastes;
      16.   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes, except in
accordance with city, state and federal rules governing such discharges;
      17.   Wastewater or wastes containing iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      18.   Any leachate or remediation wastewater, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW;
      19.   All trucked or hauled wastes;
      20.   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
nonresidential wastes;
      21.   Any solid, solid waste or viscous substance that has caused an
obstruction to the flow in a sewer which has been eliminated by a professional
service or contractor;
      22.   Unusual concentrations or solutions of inert suspended solids (such
as, but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
      23.   Any substance with objectionable color which is not removed in the
treatment processes, such as, but not limited to, dye waste, ink waste and
vegetable tanning solutions;
      24.   Any substances that inhibit the use of UV for disinfection
purposes;
      25.   Wastewater or wastes containing substances which are not amenable
to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters;
      26.   Any substance or combination of substances which shall cause the
city facilities to be in violation of its NPDES permit(s), or to cause the
city's POTW to violate receiving stream water quality and/or general effluent
discharge standards;
      27.   Any wastewater causing the POTW effluent to fail a toxicity test;
or
      28.   Any substance which may cause the city's POTW effluents or sludges
to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or interfere with the reclamation
processes. In no case shall a substance discharged to the city's POTW cause the
city to be in noncompliance with any sludge use or disposal regulations
developed under section 405 of the act; or with any regulations affecting
sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the resource conservation and
recovery act, solids waste disposal act, toxic substance control act, or any
state or local standards applicable to any sludge management methods being
either used or considered for use by the city.
   D.   Spill Prevention: Wastes prohibited in this section shall not be
processed or stored in such manner that they could be discharged or introduced
to the POTW. All users with prohibited wastes described in this section or
having hazardous wastes as defined in section
7.489 of this article shall develop and implement a spill prevention/slug
control plan consistent with the requirements in section
7.455 of this article. The pretreatment coordinator may also determine spill
prevention/slug control is required for liquids and solids not previously
described on either list, based on an evaluation of a site's potential to cause
spills or slug loads to be introduced to the POTW. Notice requirements shall be
permanently posted as provided in sections
7.455 and
7.487 of this article. Spill planning shall apply to all users, and not just
those classified as SIU or NSRU.
   E.   Requirements Of Polluted Discharges - Discharge Locations:
      1.   Discharge Of Polluting Substances From Fixtures Into Storm Sewers
Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person or user to connect, or cause to
be connected, to any drain carrying or intended to carry the wastes of any
toilet, sink, basement, septic tank, cesspool, industrial waste, or other
fixture or device discharging polluting substances to any storm sewer or
stormwater drainage system within the corporate limits of the city.
      2.   Discharge Of Sanitary And Industrial Waste Into Storm Drainage
Systems Prohibited, Nuisance Declared: For reasons of the protection of the
health, safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of the city, it is the declared
policy of the city to prohibit sanitary and industrial waste from entering into
the stormwater drainage system, and any such connection to the stormwater
drainage system that is determined to be injurious to the public health and
welfare and is hereby declared a public nuisance.
      3.   Prohibited Discharges Into Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to
discharge into any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   F.   Requirements Of Unpolluted Discharges:
      1.   Discharge Of Sump Pumps: A sump pump(s) must discharge into a storm
sewer system or, with the prior written permission of the director of public
works (DPW) or designee, may discharge outside a building into an area first
approved by the DPW. A shutoff value or similar device that can divert the
unpolluted discharge from the sump pump into the sanitary sewer system rather
than into the storm sewer system, or vice versa, shall not be constructed or
installed, and any construction or installation of same shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter. It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this chapter if any person or user has on his premises or under his control a
sump pump or any other pump, fixture or gravity drain connected to the sanitary
sewer system which would allow the flow of unpolluted water into the sanitary
sewer system.
      2.   Discharge Of Unpolluted Drainage Into Storm Sewers Or Natural
Outlets: Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the DPW or other public works department employee.
Industrial cooling waters or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon
approval by the WWOS and the IEPA if appropriate, to a storm sewer or natural
outlet.
      3.   Discharge Of Unpolluted Discharges Upon Adjacent Property Or Public
Streets Or Ways Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person or user to
discharge any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, or
subsurface drainage, including the use of a sump pump for such purpose, in such
manner as to cause waters to overflow onto adjacent property or to be
discharged upon any public street or public way.
   G.   Storm Sewers; Storm And Surface Water Runoff:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or cause to be
connected any building drain carrying or intended to carry the waste of any
toilet, sink, basement, septic tank, cesspool or industrial waste or any
fixture or device discharging wastewater to any stormwater drain or storm
sewer.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make connection of roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to an interference or building drain which, in
turn, is connected directly or indirectly to the sanitary sewer system.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged into the sanitary sewer system any stormwater, surface water, roof
runoff water, subsurface drainage, runoff water from ground or paved areas,
cistern overflow, or industrial cooling operations.
      4.   All downspouts or roof drains shall discharge onto the ground.
Footing drains shall be connected to sump pumps and discharge shall be made
into drainage ditches or the storm sewer system. Sump pumps installed to
receive and discharge groundwaters shall be connected to the storm sewer, or
discharged on the ground or into a drainage ditch or drainage system. All
downspouts and sump pump discharge lines shall not be directed to public rights
of way in a manner which would cause a flooding hazard or accumulation of water
or ice in the winter months or to adjacent properties.
      5.   Sump pumps installed to receive and discharge floor drain flow,
laundry tubs, or other sanitary sewage shall be connected to the sanitary sewer
system pursuant to the building code of the city.
      6.   Any given sump pump shall be used for one function only, either the
discharge of stormwaters or the discharge of sanitary sewage. (Ord. O-15-001,
1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.443. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
The pretreatment requirement shall apply to all nonresidential users subject to
national categorical pretreatment standards, promulgated by the USEPA in
accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the act, who are currently
discharging or scheduled to discharge to the city. The national categorical
pretreatment standards, found in 40 CFR chapter 1, subchapter N, parts 405
through 471, are hereby incorporated by reference into this article as if fully
set forth.
Limits in categorical pretreatment standards shall apply to the discharge from
the process regulated by the standard or as otherwise specified by the
standard. Compliance with national categorical pretreatment standards is
mandatory. The national categorical pretreatment standards may be contained in
the IEPA operating permit.
   A.   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms of
either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
pretreatment coordinator may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(c) unless specifically restricted by the
categorical pretreatment standard. These equivalent limitations, calculated in
accordance with the following requirements, are deemed pretreatment standards.
Users shall be required to comply with the equivalent limitations instead of
the promulgated categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations
were derived. An alternative pretreatment limit shall not be used if the
alternative limit is below the analytical detection limit for any of the
regulated pollutants.
   B.   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit production, the city may convert
the limits to equivalent limitations, expressed either as mass of pollutant
discharged per day or effluent concentration, for purposes of calculating
effluent limitations applicable to individual users.
The city, in calculating equivalent mass per day limitations, shall calculate
such limitations by multiplying the limits in the standard by the user's
average rate of production. This average rate of production shall be based not
upon the designed production capacity, but rather upon a reasonable measure of
the user's actual long term daily production during a representative year. For
new sources, actual production shall be estimated using projected production.
The city, in calculating equivalent concentration limitations, shall calculate
such limitations by dividing the mass limitations by the average daily flow
rate of the user's regulated process wastewater. This average daily flow rate
must be based upon a reasonable measure of the user's actual long term average
flow rate, such as the average daily flow rate during the representative year.
   C.   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is mixed
with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the pretreatment
coordinator shall impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream
formula in 40 CFR 403.6(e), provided that the regulation allows the wastewaters
to be mixed and the user can supply the information necessary to allow issuance
of an alternative limit.
   D.   A user may request a variance from USEPA based on fundamentally
different factors. The request must comply with the procedural and substantive
provisions in 40 CFR 403.13.
   E.   A user may request a net gross adjustment to a categorical pretreatment
standard in accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
   F.   When a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms of
pollutant concentrations, a user may request that the city convert the limits
to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert concentration limits to
mass limits is within the discretion of the pretreatment coordinator. The city
may establish equivalent mass limits only if the user meets all the conditions
set forth in subsections F1a through F1e of this section.
      1.   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the user must:
         a.   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water conservation
methods and technologies that substantially reduce water during the term of its
individual wastewater discharge permit;
         b.   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the applicable categorical pretreatment standard and
not have used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
         c.   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility's actual
average daily flow rate for all waste streams, based on data from a continuous
effluent flow monitoring device as well as the facility's long term average
production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long term
average production rate must be representative of current operating conditions;
         d.   Not have daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant levels
that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not appropriate to
control the discharge; and
         e.   Have consistently complied with all applicable categorical
pretreatment standards during the period prior to the user's request for
equivalent mass limits.
      2.   A user subject to equivalent mass limits must:
         a.   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
         b.   Continue to record the facility's flow rates through the use of a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
         c.   Continue to record the facility's production rates and notify the
pretreatment coordinator whenever production rates are expected to vary by more
than twenty percent (20%) from its baseline production rates determined in
subsection F1c of this section. Upon notification of a revised production rate,
the pretreatment coordinator will reassess the equivalent mass limit and revise
the limit as necessary to reflect changed conditions at the facility; and
         d.   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies as those implemented pursuant to subsection F1a of
this section so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass limit.
      3.   When developing equivalent mass limits, the pretreatment
coordinator:
         a.   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the
actual average daily flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the user by the
concentration based daily maximum and monthly average standard for the
applicable categorical pretreatment standard and the appropriate unit
conversion factor;
         b.   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess the
equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit necessary to reflect changed
conditions at the facility; and
         c.   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent
individual wastewater discharge permit terms if the user's actual average daily
flow rate was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of water
conservation methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow rates
used in the original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not based on
the use of dilution as a substitute for treatment pursuant to subsection
7.442B of this article.
   G.   The pretreatment coordinator may convert the mass limits of the
categorical pretreatment standards of 40 CFR parts 414, 419 and 455 to
concentration limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to
individual users. Such conversion is at the discretion of the pretreatment
coordinator.
   H.   Once included in its wastewater discharge permit, the user must comply
with the equivalent limitations developed in this section in lieu of the
promulgated categorical pretreatment standards from which the equivalent
limitations were derived.
   I.   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four (4) day average, limitations.
Where such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure
shall be used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent
limitations.
   J.   Any user operating under a permit incorporating equivalent mass or
concentration limits calculated from a production based standard shall notify
the pretreatment coordinator within two (2) business days after the user has a
reasonable basis to know that the production level will significantly change
within the next calendar month. Any user not notifying the pretreatment
coordinator of such anticipated change will be required to meet the mass or
concentration limits in its permit that were based on the original estimate of
the long term average production rate.
All users that are subject to national categorical pretreatment standards are
required to file reports as required in this article, signed by an authorized
representative per sections
7.482 and
7.483 of this article. These reports shall include all information that the
city deems necessary to make compliance determinations. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-
2015)
Sec. 7.444. State Limits.
   A.   All users are subject to state standards and requirements as defined in
35 Illinois administrative code (IAC) 307. Specifically, the standards for
discharge of mercury and cyanide are as follows:
      1.   Mercury (Hg) (35 IAC 307.1102):
         a.   Except as provided below, no person shall cause or allow the
concentration of mercury in any discharge to a publicly owned or publicly
regulated sanitary sewer system to exceed the following level, subject to the
averaging rule contained in 35 IAC 304.104(a):
 
Constituent STORET Number Concentration mg/l
Mercury     71900         0.0005
 
         b.   It shall be an exception to subsection A1a of this section if the
discharge is to a publicly owned or publicly regulated sanitary sewer system
which is required to meet a limitation less stringent than the 0.0005
milligrams per liter mercury concentration, in which case the discharge
limitation shall be the same as that applicable to the publicly owned or
regulated sewer system to which it discharges.
         c.   It shall be an exception to subsection A1a of this section if all
the following conditions are met:
            (1)   The discharger does not use mercury; or, the discharger uses
mercury and this use cannot be eliminated; or, the discharger uses mercury only
in chemical analysis or in laboratory or other equipment and takes reasonable
care to avoid contamination of wastewater; and
            (2)   The discharge mercury concentration is less than 0.003
milligrams per liter, as determined by application of the averaging rules of 35
IAC 304.104(a); and
            (3)   The discharger is providing the best degree of treatment
consistent with technological feasibility, economic reasonableness, and sound
engineering judgment. This may include no treatment for mercury; and
            (4)   The discharger has an inspection and maintenance program
likely to reduce or to prevent an increase in the level of mercury discharges.
         d.   The discharge of wastes from medicinal or therapeutic use of
mercury, exclusive of laboratory use, shall be exempt from the limitations of
subsection A1a of this section if all the following conditions are met:
            (1)   The total discharge is less than two hundred twenty seven
grams (227 g) (1/2 pound) of mercury in any year;
            (2)   This discharge is to a public sewer system; and
            (3)   The discharge does not, alone or in conjunction with other
sources, cause the effluent from the sewer system or treatment plant to exceed
0.0005 milligrams per liter of mercury.
         e.   No person shall cause or allow any discharge of mercury to a
publicly owned or publicly regulated sewer system which, alone or in
combination with other sources, causes a violation by the sewer treatment plant
discharge of the water quality standard of 35 IAC 302 for mercury applicable in
the receiving stream.
         f.   For purposes of permit issuance the agency may consider
application of the exception of subsection A1b or A1c of this section to
determine compliance with this section. The agency may impose permit conditions
necessary or required to assure continued application of the exception. When
subsection A1b or A1c of this section applies, the agency may impose an
effluent limitation in the permit which allows the discharge of a concentration
of mercury greater than 0.0005 milligrams per liter but not more than 0.003
milligrams per liter.
      2.   Cyanide (35 IAC 307.1103):
         a.   No waste to any public sewer system shall contain more than ten
milligrams per liter (10 mg/l) total cyanide (STORET number 00720) provided any
sample tested shall not release more than two milligrams per liter (2 mg/l) of
cyanide when tested at a pH of 4.5 and at a temperature of sixty six degrees
Celsius (66°C) (150°F) for a period of thirty (30) minutes, except as permitted
by subsection A2b of this section.
         b.   Upon application by a county, municipality, sanitary district, or
public utility and approval by the agency, based upon determination by the
agency that no violation of the effluent standards of 35 IAC 304 will result
and that no hazard to workers in such sewage works will result, limited
additional amounts of cyanide exceeding the standards in subsection A2a of this
section may be discharged to the sewage works of such county, sanitary
district, municipality, or public utility.
         c.   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting the
authority of any county, municipality, sanitary district or public utility to
impose any more stringent standards or limitations on cyanide discharges to its
sewage works.
         d.   Any actions undertaken pursuant to subsection A2b of this section
shall be subject to the limitations of 35 IAC 307.2400(b)(7). (Ord. O-15-001,
1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.445. Local Limits.
The following pollutant limits are established to protect against pass-through
and interference:
   A.   Conventional Pollutants; Guidelines For Discharge: No user should
discharge any wastewater containing concentrations greater than the guidelines
as set forth in section
7.611 of this chapter into any sewers that connect either directly or
indirectly to the POTW.
   B.   Toxic Pollutants: No user shall discharge any wastewater containing
concentrations greater than the local limits as set forth in section
7.612 of this chapter into any sewers that connect either directly or
indirectly to the POTW.
   C.   Other Local Limit Requirements: There are other requirements that a
user may be subject to in section
7.613 of this chapter. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.446. Right Of Revision.
   A.   The city reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in wastewater
discharge permits or general permits, more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this
article. The specific limitations on discharge listed in section
7.445 of this article are derived from the maximum allowable industrial loading
(MAIL) calculation. The MAILs are allocated only to those IUs, at the city's
discretion, that contribute the regulated pollutant and all remaining IUs are
held to either the background concentration or slightly higher than background
but lower than the specific discharge limit. In no case shall the total of all
allocations exceed the MAIL.
   B.   The city will maintain a reserve of the maximum allowable headworks
pollutant loading for each pollutant for new industries or increase with
existing industries. The city will recalculate the maximum concentrations from
time to time using site specific data taking into consideration revisions to
state and federal regulations that may impact the calculations. (Ord. O-15-001,
1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.447. Monitoring Facilities.
   A.   Sampling Manhole Applicability:
      1.   All nonresidential users are required to install a sampling manhole
for each separate discharge in the building sewer in accordance with the plans
and specifications approved by the city and section
7.425 of this article.
When required by the city, an SIU or NSRU that does not have a unique sampling
chamber at end of pipe shall install a sampling manhole or sampling chamber for
use as the regulation location of local limits in the building sewer in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the city. This sampling
chamber may be required to be installed within the building.
      2.   When required by the city, a categorical industrial user shall
install a sampling manhole or sampling chamber for use as the regulation
location of the categorically regulated discharge in the building sewer in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the city. This sampling
chamber may be required to be installed within the building and may be in
addition to an end of pipe sampling manhole.
      3.   In the event that a suitable sampling facility does not exist on a
nonresidential user's property, sampling for that nonresidential user shall be
performed either at the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected or the point of process
wastewater discharge, if accessible by the city.
   B.   Wastewater Monitoring And/Or Flow Measurement Facility Operation And
Maintenance:
      1.   Such facilities will be installed and maintained at all times at the
user's expense. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good
working order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that the sample
results are unrepresentative of its discharge. Installation will be consistent
with the requirements of section
7.425 of this article.
      2.   The sampling manhole shall be located on a building sewer discharge
placed in a dedicated easement and shall be easily accessible to
representatives of the city twenty four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per
week.
      3.   The sampling manhole at a discharge location within the building
shall be accessible to representatives of the city during normal user operating
hours.
      4.   Metered water supply may be used to determine wastewater flow if it
is substantiated to the city that the metered water supply and wastewater
quantities are approximately the same, or if an adjustment agreed to by the
city is made in the metered water supply to determine wastewater flow which has
been documented through the use of submeters and/or production records. In the
event that the wastewater flow cannot be substantiated at any regulated
location to the satisfaction of the pretreatment coordinator, the user will be
required to install flow monitoring consistent with section
7.425 of this article.
      5.   The sampling manhole, flow metering device, sampling equipment and
documentation of the frequency of sampling, sampling methods, and analysis of
samples shall be subject, at any reasonable time, to inspection by the city.
(Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.448. Monitoring Requirements.
   A.   Applicability: At minimum, all significant industrial users, including
categorical industrial users and nonsignificant regulated users (including
FSEs), are required to sample in accordance with the city monitoring frequency
as stated in the wastewater discharge permit. Other users are required to
sample only upon the request of the city. The users shall pay the costs of
sampling their discharge and the costs of analyses of their samples, whether or
not the sampling and analyses are done by the user or by the POTW.
   B.   Frequency:
      1.   All significant industrial users, including categorical industrial
users with wastewater discharge permits, must sample their effluent consistent
with the permit requirements and report the results to the POTW at least twice
yearly, or quarterly or monthly if required by parameters specified in the
user's permit.
      2.   Any nonsignificant regulated users with an individual or general
wastewater discharge permit, including FSEs, shall sample their effluent and
report the results to the POTW consistent with the requirements of the
wastewater discharge permit and the city monitoring frequency.
      3.   The city may resample an FSE within thirty (30) calendar days when a
violation of the twenty five percent (25%) requirement as defined in subsection
7.613C of this chapter is identified.
      4.   The city shall have the right to perform its own sampling at any
time at any location that has been issued a permit.
      5.   The city may initiate sampling and analyses at a greater frequency
as a result of a violation of any discharge permit limit, including cases where
hot spot maintenance issues or blockage to the sanitary sewer system has
occurred.
      6.   Cost of additional sampling and analyses for any monitoring will be
invoiced to the applicable user.
   C.   Sample Collection:
      1.   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on
data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the
period covered by the report and data that is representative of conditions
occurring during the entire sampling and reporting period as defined in the
wastewater discharge permit.
      2.   Except as indicated in subsection C3 of this section, the user must
collect wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection
techniques.
      3.   In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the
pretreatment coordinator may authorize the use of time proportional sampling
that at a minimum collects a sample every fifteen (15) minutes during a twenty
four (24) hour workday, or a minimum of four (4) grab samples where the user
demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of the effluent
being discharged in the case of batch discharge. A proportionate number of
samples shall be collected for wastewater discharges less than twenty four (24)
hours.
      4.   Single grab samples may be required in the event of an infrequent
batch discharge of a small volume discharged in a period less than one hour or
to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
      5.   Samples for fats, oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide,
hexavalent chromium, phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be
obtained using the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. Multiple
grab samples that are individually preserved as specified in 40 CFR 136 and
under appropriate USEPA guidance and are collected during a twenty four (24)
hour period may be composited prior to the analysis, as follows:
         a.   For cyanide, hexavalent chromium, phenols, and sulfides: Multiple
grab samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; and
         b.   For volatile organics and oil and grease: Multiple grab samples
may only be composited in the laboratory.
      6.   Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing
procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the
city, as appropriate. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.449. Analytical Requirements.
All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as part
of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR part 136, unless otherwise
specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40 CFR part
136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in
question, or if the USEPA determines that the part 136 sampling and analytical
techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analyses must be performed using validated analytical methods or any other
applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested
by the pretreatment coordinator or other parties approved by USEPA. (Ord. O-15-
001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.450. Protection Of City Sampling And Flow Metering Equipment From
Damage.
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or recklessly break, damage,
destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is
owned or contracted by the city. Any person violating this provision shall be
charged under the appropriate provisions of Illinois criminal code of 1961, 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 1-1 et seq., and/or this code and, as appropriate,
be subject to immediate arrest. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.45. General Discharge Compliance
Sec. 7.451. Applicability.
Each user that discharges nonresidential source waste shall provide wastewater
treatment and best management practices as necessary to comply with this
article and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in part
7.44 of this article within the time limitations specified by USEPA, the state
or the pretreatment coordinator, whichever is more stringent. (Ord. O-15-001,
1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.452. Pretreatment Facilities.
Any pretreatment facilities, grease interceptors, and grease traps necessary
for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user's
expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the pretreatment coordinator for review, and shall be
acceptable to the pretreatment coordinator before such facilities are
constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as
necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the city under the provisions of
this article.
All users are required to comply with IEPA permitting requirements. Users shall
obtain all necessary construction- operating permits from the IEPA prior to the
city connection and/or discharge permit(s) being issued. IEPA will make the
determination of actual permitting requirements based on changes in the
wastewater volume or characteristics generated at the user site. The city will
track and parallel this IEPA permitting process. No sources of nonresidential
wastewater will be allowed to discharge to city works until all permitting
requirements have been satisfied. Such pretreatment facilities shall be under
the control and direction of an IEPA certified wastewater operator.
Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation
shall be reported to the city and IEPA prior to the user's initiation of the
changes. Users shall obtain all additional construction-operating permits from
IEPA and the city for the changes prior to discharge. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-
2015)
Sec. 7.453. Additional Pretreatment Measures.
At minimum, the city may require the additional pretreatment measures defined
below. The city reserves the right to make unannounced inspections of any
additional pretreatment measures during normal business hours whether the user
has been issued an individual or general wastewater discharge permit or not.
   A.   Protection Of POTW: Whenever deemed necessary, the pretreatment
coordinator may require users to restrict their discharge during peak flow
periods, designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific
sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage waste
streams from industrial waste streams and such other conditions as may be
necessary to protect the POTW and determine the user's compliance with the
requirements of this article.
   B.   Storage And Flow Control Facility: The pretreatment coordinator may
require any person or user discharging into the POTW to install and maintain on
their property and at their expense a suitable storage and flow control
facility to ensure equalization of flow. The city may issue an individual or
general wastewater discharge permit solely for flow equalization.
   C.   Combustible Gas Detection Meter: Users with the potential to discharge
flammable substances may be required to install and maintain an approved
combustible gas detection meter.
   D.   Grease Trap (GT) Maintenance: A GT located inside an FSE will be
inspected and cleaned weekly.
   E.   Grease Interceptor (GI) Maintenance: A GI located outside an FSE on its
property shall be inspected and the grease cap and solids blanket minimally
cleaned every three (3) months; the entire contents of the trap cleaned
annually; and the GI repaired regularly, as needed, by the owner at his
expense. Logs of inspection and cleaning are to be posted in a readily
accessible location of the facility. It shall be the responsibility of the FSE
to inspect its GI during the pumping procedure to ensure the trap is properly
cleaned out and that all fittings and fixtures inside the trap are in working
condition and functioning properly. In the event that actual operations of the
GI fail to produce results that consistently prevent prohibitive discharges, as
defined in section
7.442 of this article, or fail to meet local limits, as defined in section
7.445 of this article and section
7.613 of this chapter, the owner of the FSE will be required by the WWOS to
have the GI cleaned at a more frequent rate or install or modify pretreatment
as necessary.
   F.   GI Cleaning Cycle Waiver: The GI owner or operator may petition the
pretreatment coordinator to reduce the cleaning and servicing of the GI from
every three (3) months to a maximum of every six (6) months upon demonstration
that the amount removed every three (3) months is significantly less than the
twenty five percent (25%) requirement for the basin capacity, as defined in
subsection
7.613C of this chapter, and that the discharge does not exceed the oil and
grease action level at a downstream sampling location. The GI owner or operator
will be required to submit data sufficient to document to the pretreatment
coordinator that the twenty five percent (25%) requirement can be maintained
using a longer cleaning cycle. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.454. Best Management Practices (BMP) Plan.
   A.   FSEs are required to develop, implement and maintain best management
practices (BMP) plans that include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Proper storage of unused cooking oil;
      2.   Segregation, collection, and proper storage of waste cooking oil;
      3.   Disposal of food waste into the trash or garbage disposal;
      4.   Installation of drain screens;
      5.   Wipe up grease spills before using water;
      6.   Employee training within ninety (90) days of initiation and twice
each calendar year thereafter;
      7.   Grease trap or interceptor maintenance;
      8.   Kitchen exhaust filter maintenance;
      9.   Recordkeeping requirements;
      10.   Notifications required for spills or slug loads changes; and
      11.   Notices and signage advising employees in the language used in the
kitchen.
All FSEs that meet the criteria defined in section
7.451 of this article are required to develop and implement a BMP plan
regardless whether such FSEs are regulated by a discharge permit or not.
   B.   Each FSE meeting the criteria in section
7.451 of this article is to provide ready documentation as follows that the
provisions of the BMP plan are being implemented:
      1.   Specifics Of Documentation:
         a.   Site diagram showing location of all containers holding unused or
spent yellow grease;
         b.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental
discharge to storm or sanitary sewers. Such procedures include, but are not
limited to, inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer
of materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site runoff,
worker training and building of containment structures or equipment;
         c.   Location of notice/signs posted in conspicuous places advising
employees in English and the language of common use whom to call in the event
of a spill, accidental discharge of prohibited materials, slug discharge or a
bypass of any part of a pretreatment system; and
         d.   Off site emergency (24 hour) telephone number, and backup
telephone number.
      2.   Notification Procedure: The BMP plan shall contain procedures for
immediately notifying the pretreatment coordinator of any accidental or slug
discharge of any raw materials or recycled oil to either the sanitary or storm
sewer consistent with the requirements in section
7.487 of this article.
   C.   The city may require the submittal of BMP plans and documentation of
procedures required in this section. Review of such plans and documentation of
procedures by the city shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to
modify the user's facility or BMP plan and procedures as necessary to meet all
requirements of this article. Review by the city does not constitute an
approval of a BMP plan and procedures, and the city and its designee(s) are not
to be construed as responsible for the actions of the user and any impacts the
user may cause as a result of a spill or slug discharge. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-
2015)
Sec. 7.455. Spill Prevention/Slug Control Plan.
   A.   Any nonresidential user is required to develop, implement and maintain
best management practices in the form of a spill prevention/slug control plan
hereafter referred to as SPSC plan, should that user have:
      1.   Chemicals (raw materials, chemical intermediates, wastes to be
recycled, final products, or utility chemicals) that total or exceed two
hundred fifty (250) gallons at or on its site;
      2.   Prohibited discharge materials as defined in section
7.442 of this article at or on its site; or
      3.   Hazardous waste as defined in section
7.489 of this article at or on its site; or
      4.   Been defined by the pretreatment coordinator to have a need to
control slug discharges.
All nonresidential users that meet the above criteria are required to develop
and implement an SPSC plan regardless whether that user is regulated by a
discharge permit or not.
   B.   The SPSC plan which is required to be submitted to the city if the
user's discharge is regulated shall address, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   Specifics Of SPSC Plan:
         a.   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
         b.   Description of stored chemicals, including quantity of chemicals
and type and number of storage containers;
         c.   Site diagram showing location of all tanks holding greater than
or equal to two hundred fifty (250) gallons or areas containing eight (8) drums
or more of raw materials, prohibited wastes, wastes to be recycled, hazardous
wastes or final product. Identification and location of all liquid materials is
mandatory;
         d.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response. Building containment structures or production equipment changes are
considered procedures to prevent adverse spills. If containment structures are
connected to the sanitary sewer, a valve normally left in a closed position is
required;
         e.   Location of notice/signs posted in conspicuous places advising
employees in English and the language(s) of common use whom to call in the
event of a spill, accidental discharge of prohibited materials, slug discharge
or a bypass of any part of a pretreatment system; and
         f.   Off site emergency (24 hour) telephone number and backup
telephone number. If the SPSC plan has been submitted, any change in the
telephone numbers should be submitted within five (5) workdays when revised.
      2.   Notification Procedure: The SPSC plan shall contain procedures for
immediately notifying the pretreatment coordinator of any accidental or slug
discharge, as required by section
7.487 of this article.
      3.   Documentation: The SPSC plan shall contain a sample of the
documentation maintained at the site that:
         a.   Ensures that all employees who are in a position to cause,
discover, or observe such discharge are advised of the emergency notification
procedures; and
         b.   Such logs to verify inspection and maintenance procedures to
prevent adverse impacts and confirm that said procedures are being performed on
a regular basis. At a minimum, logs are required to verify valves in
containment structures, if present, are closed.
   C.   Review of such plans and operating procedures by the city shall not
relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the user's facility or SPSC
plan as necessary to meet all requirements of this article. Review by the city
does not constitute an approval of an SPSC plan, and the city and its designee
(s) are not to be construed as responsible for the actions of the user and any
impacts the user may cause as a result of a spill or slug load.
   D.   At least once every two (2) years the pretreatment coordinator shall
evaluate whether each significant industrial user needs a revision to its SPSC
plan. The pretreatment coordinator may require any user to submit at a
frequency of less than two (2) years such spill plan or require modification of
an existing SPSC plan based on changes that have occurred at the site or in
response to an incident that had the potential to impact the POTW.
In alternate years, the pretreatment coordinator shall evaluate whether each
nonsignificant regulated user is required to file a revision to its SPSC plan
based on changes that have occurred at the site or in response to an incident
that had the potential to impact the POTW. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.456. Closure Plan.
   A.   If any nonresidential user, meeting the requirements of subsection
7.462A of this article, including, but not limited to, those with wastewater
discharge permits, determines that it will cease operations permanently, or
ceases or closes some of the processes that classify the user as significant,
the user shall file a written closure plan with the city. The closure plan
shall be submitted ten (10) workdays prior to the initiation of the plan and
shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   A description of each wastewater generating process that will be
closed;
      2.   A description of how the entire facility will be closed if
applicable including the extent of operations during the closure period;
      3.   An inventory and estimate of the volume of all process wastewater,
chemicals, and hazardous waste on site. A description of the methods for
disposal, including procedures for removing, transporting, treating, storing,
or disposing of all waste and identifying all off site waste management
facilities to be used;
      4.   A schedule of the closure activities indicating the time required to
complete each closure step; and
      5.   Additional monitoring scheduled that will identify compliance with
pretreatment standards during the closure operations. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-
2015)
Part 7.46. Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirements And Application
Sec. 7.461. Wastewater Information And Analysis.
When requested by the pretreatment coordinator, a user must submit information
on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within thirty (30) calendar
days of the request. The pretreatment coordinator is authorized to prepare a
form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update this
information. The pretreatment coordinator may also prepare specialized forms
for various business types and functions. Information that may be required will
be consistent with that identified in part
7.43 and section
7.465 of this article. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.462. Wastewater Discharge Permit Authority And Requirements.
   A.   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Issued To Significant Industrial
Users (SIUs) Which Includes Categorical Industrial Users (CIUs): No SIU,
including any CIU, shall discharge wastewater into the POTW without first
obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit from the pretreatment
coordinator, except that an SIU, including any CIU, that has filed a timely
application pursuant to this article, may continue to discharge for the time
period specified therein. The city may issue general wastewater discharge
permits to SIU or CIU if the conditions in subsection B of this section are
met.
   B.   General Wastewater Discharge Permit Issued To SIU And CIU: At the
discretion of the pretreatment coordinator, the city may use general permits to
control discharges to the POTW if the following conditions are met:
      1.   Involve the same or substantially similar types of operations;
      2.   Discharge the same types of waste;
      3.   Require the same effluent limitations or best management practices;
      4.   Require the same or similar monitoring and/or reporting
requirements; and
      5.   In the opinion of the pretreatment coordinator, are more
appropriately controlled under a general permit than under individual
wastewater discharge permits.
   C.   Nonsignificant Regulated Users (NSRU) Wastewater Discharge Permits: The
pretreatment coordinator may require other nonresidential users to obtain
either individual or general wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry
out the purposes of this article. The wastewater discharge permit will define
that holders of permits issued under this section shall not be classified as
significant industrial users. Nonresidential users with wastewater discharge
permits in this class may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Any user that has been determined to be a nonsignificant categorical
industrial user, as defined in section
7.101 of this chapter;
      2.   Any user that has been determined not to be an SIU, as defined in
section
7.101 of this chapter, that the pretreatment coordinator requires to be
regulated by wastewater discharge permit;
      3.   Any user subject to national categorical pretreatment standards that
opts not to discharge said regulated waste shall obtain a zero process
wastewater discharge permit;
      4.   Any user that is a noncategorical zero process wastewater discharger
that the pretreatment coordinator determines shall be permitted;
      5.   Other nonresidential users as defined below. In the event that the
city operates more than one wastewater treatment works, the percentage shall be
determined based on the plant to which the user discharges rather than the
total capacity of all city plants:
         a.   Any user that discharges a process wastewater flow greater than
or equal to one-half percent (0.5%) of the POTW's design dry weather hydraulic
capacity, or five thousand (5,000) gallons per day, whichever is smaller;
         b.   Any user that discharges more than or equal to one-half percent
(0.5%) of the design dry weather organic treatment capacity of the POTW;
         c.   Any user that discharges one-half percent (0.5%) of the maximum
allowable headworks loading for any pollutant regulated by a local limit
developed in accordance with article VI of this chapter; or
         d.   Any user that intermittently discharges any individual batch or
batches that would meet the criteria in subsection C1, C2, or C3 of this
section when discharged or otherwise have the potential to discharge a slug
load to the wastewater treatment works;
      6.   Nonresidential users that have devices installed to remove oils,
grease and sand;
      7.   Food service establishments (FSE). Multiple formats of the general
FSE may be issued consistent with the following types of FSEs:
         a.   Stand alone FSE,
         b.   FSE activities where FSE activity is not the primary function,
         c.   FSE connected to a common interceptor,
         d.   Owners and operators of common interceptors, and
         e.   Limited food preparation establishments.
      8.   Nonresidential users are required to eliminate or control specified
pollutants from their wastestream through the development and implementation of
a best management practice (BMP) plan.
   D.   Violation: Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual
or general wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this
article and subject the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out
in article IX of this chapter. Obtaining an individual or general wastewater
discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with
all federal and state pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other
requirements of federal, state, and local law. All FSE discharge permits are
general permits and any general permit terms, conditions or requirements in
this article apply to FSE permits unless separate requirements have been
identified for an FSE. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.463. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permitting; Existing
Connections.
   A.   Continuing Discharge: Any SIU or CIU required to obtain an individual
or general wastewater discharge permit that was discharging wastewater into the
POTW prior to the effective date of this article and that wishes to continue
such discharges in the future, shall, within ninety (90) calendar days after
said date, apply to the pretreatment coordinator for the appropriate wastewater
discharge permit in accordance with section 7.465 of this article, and shall
not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after one hundred eighty
(180) calendar days of the effective date of this article except in accordance
with a wastewater discharge permit issued by the pretreatment coordinator.
   B.   Permit Application To Be Filed: Any non-SIU or non-CIU that is required
to obtain individual or general wastewater discharge permits shall file an
application within the number of city business days required in a notification
sent by the pretreatment coordinator.
   C.   General Permits For Food Service Establishments: No person shall
discharge, or cause to discharge any wastewater from an FSE directly or
indirectly into the sewer system without first obtaining an FSE wastewater
discharge permit (FSEP) when required by the city. Criteria that the city will
use to decide that a location is required to have an FSEP include, but are not
limited to: a finding that the FSE action level has been exceeded, as a result
of a hot spot condition or when additional O&M to the sanitary sewers are
required to prevent blockages or sanitary sewer overflows. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-
15-2015)
Sec. 7.464. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permitting; New
Connections.
   A.   Any CIU that proposes to begin or recommence discharging to the POTW
must obtain such permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such
discharge. An application for this individual or general wastewater discharge
permit, in accordance with section
7.465 of this article, must be filed at least ninety (90) calendar days prior
to the date upon which any discharge will begin or recommence pending review by
the pretreatment coordinator.
   B.   In the case of a zero process sampling manhole, any non-CIU who
proposed to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW that is required to
obtain an individual or general wastewater discharge permit must obtain such
permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge or operations
in accordance with section
7.465 of this article. An application for this individual or general wastewater
discharge permit must be filed at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the
date upon which any discharge or operations will begin or recommence pending
review and approval by the pretreatment coordinator.
   C.   An FSE that proposes new connections is required to obtain a general
FSE discharge permit in accordance with section
7.465 of this article. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.465. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Application
Contents.
   A.   Individual Application Requirement: All users that are required to
obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit or zero process wastewater
discharge permit must submit a permit application. Incomplete or inaccurate
applications will not be processed and will be returned to the user for
revision.
   B.   Individual Application Contents: The pretreatment coordinator may
require all users to submit as part of an application all or some of the
following information:
      1.   All information required by sections
7.431,
7.433 and
7.434 of this article;
      2.   Identifying information for the site including name and address of
the facility, including the name of the operator and owner and authorized
representative;
      3.   Description of operations:
         a.   A brief description of the nature of the activities, services,
production and plant processes on the premises. Include each product produced
by type, amount, process or processes, and a general rate of production;
         b.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
         c.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day), including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could be, accidentally or intentionally discharged
to the POTW;
      4.   Time and duration of discharges with an estimate of the average
daily and maximum flow;
      5.   Waste characteristics. Information showing the nature and
concentration of the discharge in relation to applicable pretreatment standards
and local limits;
      6.   Requests for a monitoring waiver for a pollutant regulated as a
categorical pretreatment neither present nor expected to be present in the
discharge based on 40 CFR 403.12(e)(2). Representative sampling and analysis
will be required to substantiate the request;
      7.   Plans and diagrams:
         a.   Site plans/floor plans, similar to an emergency exit plan, that
show the footprint of the building with an outline of major equipment;
         b.   Site plans, floor plans, and mechanical and plumbing plans and
details that show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location
and elevation and all points of discharge;
         c.   A diagram showing the location for monitoring the discharge of
all wastes covered by the permit;
      8.   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility; and
      9.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the pretreatment
coordinator to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
   C.   General Application Requirement: The pretreatment coordinator may
require all users that are required to obtain a general wastewater discharge
permit to submit an application on a form provided by the city which is
specific to the category regulated by the general wastewater discharge permit.
The form may require, but is not limited to, contact information, production
processes and the types of wastes generated and the location for monitoring all
wastes if regulated by the general permit. Where the standard will require
compliance with a BMP or pollution prevention alternative, the user shall
submit documentation as required by the pretreatment coordinator.
   D.   General Application Requirement For Food Service Establishments (FSEs):
When the pretreatment coordinator requires an FSE to obtain a general
wastewater discharge permit, the FSE will be required to submit an application
on a form provided by the city which is specific to FSEs. The form may require,
but is not limited to, contact information; general business information;
facility operation; kitchen fixtures; fats, oil and grease handling; kitchen
cleanup and water usage; grease interceptor or alternatives used; and sampling
locations. The city may use the FSE survey required by this article as the
application or provide a separate form for the FSE application. The city may
also add pages to the FSE survey for use as the application. The city requires
all FSEs to comply with an FSE BMP whether permitted or not. An existing FSE
required to be permitted shall submit documentation as required by the
pretreatment coordinator within thirty (30) calendar days of the request or
within thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date upon which any new discharge
or new operations will begin.
   E.   Categorical Monitoring Waivers:
      1.   Authority: The city may authorize an industrial user subject to a
categorical pretreatment standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated
by a categorical pretreatment standard if the user has demonstrated through
sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither present nor
expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only at background
levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant due to
activities of the user. This waiver is not available to users whose
concentration standards are derived from mass standards or production based
standards. This authorization is subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to
be present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility,
provided that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable
categorical pretreatment standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
         b.   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the individual wastewater discharge permit, but in no case
longer than five (5) years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver
before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent individual wastewater
discharge permit.
         c.   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical pretreatment standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical pretreatment standard.
      2.   Application Requirements:
         a.   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
user must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility's process
wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes.
         b.   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with section
7.466 of this article, and include the certification statement in section
7.466 of this article.
         c.   Nondetectable sample results may be used only as a demonstration
that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from 40 CFR part 136
with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used in the
analysis.
      3.   Documentation And Record Retention For CIU Monitoring Waivers: Any
grant of the monitoring waiver by the pretreatment coordinator must be included
as a condition in the user's permit. The reasons supporting the waiver and any
information submitted by the user in its request for the waiver must be
maintained by the pretreatment coordinator for three (3) years after expiration
of the waiver.
Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be
returned to the user for revision. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.466. Individual And General Application Signatories And Certification.
   A.   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the following certification statement:
      I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.
   B.   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the pretreatment coordinator
signed by an authorized representative when required by section
7.485 of this article. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.467. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Decisions.
The pretreatment coordinator will evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information. Within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt
of a complete wastewater discharge permit application, the pretreatment
coordinator will normally determine whether or not to issue a wastewater
discharge permit and/or request additional information. The pretreatment
coordinator may deny any application for a wastewater discharge permit. If the
pretreatment coordinator fails to act within ninety (90) calendar days, a
request for permit application shall be deemed to be denied. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-
15-2015)
Part 7.47. Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance Process
Sec. 7.471. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Duration.
   A.   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a
specified time period, not to exceed five (5) years from the effective date of
the permit. An individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a
period less than five (5) years, at the discretion of the pretreatment
coordinator. Each individual wastewater discharge permit will indicate a
specific date upon which it will expire.
   B.   A general wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specific
time period and will identify if it contains a specific date upon which it will
expire. The city will identify in the individual or general wastewater
discharge permit whether or not the permittee is defined as a significant
industrial user.
   C.   A general FSE discharge permit (FSEP) shall be issued for a specified
time period, not to exceed three (3) years from the effective date of the
permit. Each FSEP will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
   D.   The pretreatment coordinator may extend a permit issued under
subsection A, B or C of this section with a duration of less than five (5)
years to a maximum of five (5) years upon written notification. (Ord. O-15-001,
1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.472. Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents.
A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the pretreatment coordinator to prevent pass-through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal and protect against damage to the POTW.
   A.   Contents Required: Individual and general wastewater discharge permits
must contain:
      1.   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      2.   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the city in accordance with section
7.475 of this article, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator
with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      3.   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards, local limits, and state and local law;
      4.   Requirements to control slug discharge, in addition to spill
control, if determined by the pretreatment coordinator to be necessary;
      5.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and
recordkeeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law; and
      6.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable compliance
schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that
required by applicable federal, state or local law.
   B.   Waiver: An individual wastewater discharge permit may contain the
process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant neither present
nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with subsection
7.465E of this article. Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the pretreatment
coordinator shall be included as a condition of the user's permit.
   C.   Conditions: Individual and general wastewater discharge permits may
contain, but need not be limited to, the following conditions:
      1.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      2.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to equalize, reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into
the treatment works;
      3.   Requirements that allow the use of bypass of the pretreatment system
conditions consistent with 40 CFR 403.17 and section
7.492 of this article;
      4.   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
prevention/slug control plan or other special conditions including management
practices necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or
nonroutine discharges;
      5.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      6.   Development and implementation of best management practices plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      7.   The unit charge and/or schedule of strength fees for the management
of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      8.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      9.   Requirements for the zero discharge of process waste regulated by a
national categorical pretreatment standard or local standard;
      10.   Documentation of any monitoring waiver approved by the pretreatment
coordinator for categorically regulated pollutants found to be not present and
requirements to reinstitute monitoring in the event that a waived pollutant is
found to be present or is expected to be present because of changes that occur
in the user's operation;
      11.   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      12.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the pretreatment
coordinator to ensure compliance with this article, and state and federal laws,
rules and regulations.
   D.   General Permits For Food Service Establishments: The general permit for
an FSE will include grease interceptor requirements with operation and
maintenance requirements. All FSEs shall implement best management practices
(BMP) plan in its operation to minimize the discharge of FOG to the sewer
system. Detailed requirements for BMP plans shall be specified in the permit.
This may include, but is not limited to:
      1.   Installation of drain screens;
      2.   Segregation and collection of waste cooking oil;
      3.   Disposal of food waste into the trash or garbage disposal;
      4.   Employee training;
      5.   Recordkeeping requirements;
      6.   Notifications required; and
      7.   Kitchen signage.
If the FSE has a waiver in accordance with subsection
7.427B or
7.453F of this article that waiver will be documented in an attachment to the
permit. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.473. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Appeals.
The pretreatment coordinator shall provide public notice of the issuance of an
individual or general wastewater discharge permit. Any person, including the
user, may petition the pretreatment coordinator to reconsider the terms of a
wastewater discharge permit within thirty (30) calendar days of notice of its
issuance. The following conditions apply to wastewater discharge permit
appeals:
   A.   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the administrative appeal.
   B.   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection and the
alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater discharge
permit.
   C.   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
   D.   If the pretreatment coordinator fails to act within thirty (30)
calendar days, a request for reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied.
Decisions not to reconsider a wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a
wastewater discharge permit or not to modify a wastewater discharge permit
shall be considered final administrative actions for purposes of judicial
review.
   E.   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final administrative
wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a complaint with the
circuit court of the 18th judicial circuit, DuPage County, Illinois, within
sixty (60) calendar days. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.474. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Modification.
   A.   The pretreatment coordinator may modify an individual wastewater
discharge permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following
reasons:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      2.   To address substantial alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      3.   To address introduction of a pollutant for which a monitoring waiver
had been obtained;
      4.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      5.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the city's POTW, city personnel, or the receiving waters;
      6.   Violation of any terms or condition of the wastewater discharge
permit;
      7.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      8.   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
      9.   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit; or
      10.   To reflect a transfer of either the facility ownership or operation
to either a new owner or operator as provided by section
7.475 of this article.
   B.   The pretreatment coordinator may modify a general wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      2.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      3.   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit; or
      4.   To reflect a transfer of either the facility ownership or operation
to either a new owner or operator as provided by section
7.475 of this article. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.475. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer.
Wastewater discharge permits shall not be transferred, assigned or sold to a
new owner or new user on different premises or to a new or different operation
on the same or different premises without the expressed written approval of the
city. If the premises are sold or otherwise transferred by the permittee to a
new owner who will maintain the identical operation on the same premises,
whether or not the seller will continue to operate the equipment or the
equipment is leased to another entity for its operation at the site of the
original permittee, then the permit held by the seller and/or owner shall be
reissued by the city to the new owner and/or operator as a temporary permit;
provided:
   A.   The new owner and/or operator notified the city thirty (30) calendar
days in advance of the transaction, and
   B.   The new owner and/or operator confirmed to the city, within five (5)
workdays of the transaction, of completion of the date of sale or execution of
an operating contract, and
   C.   The new owner and/or operator shall apply for a new permit within
ninety (90) calendar days.
Failure to provide the sale/transfer notification defined in subsections A and
B of this section renders the wastewater discharge permit void as of said sale
and/or transfer date. It is further provided that the temporary permit shall
only be effective for one hundred eighty (180) calendar days after the date of
sale or transfer. The city shall have the same remedies for violation of
temporary permits as it has for violation of other discharge permits. (Ord. O-
15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.476. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Revocation.
The pretreatment coordinator may revoke an individual or general wastewater
discharge permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following
reasons:
   A.   Failure to notify the pretreatment coordinator of substantial changes
to the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
   B.   Failure to provide prior notification to the pretreatment coordinator
of changed conditions pursuant to sections
7.485 and
7.486 of this article;
   C.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application;
   D.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
   E.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
   F.   Refusing to allow the pretreatment coordinator and designee(s) timely
access to the facility premises and records;
   G.   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
   H.   Failure to pay fines;
   I.   Failure to pay sewer charges and fees as appropriate for the
pretreatment or FSE programs;
   J.   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
   K.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application;
   L.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business or
operation ownership of a permitted facility; or
   M.   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any terms of
the wastewater discharge permit or this article.
Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of operations or
transfer of business or operation ownership. All wastewater discharge permits
issued to a particular user are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater
discharge permit to that user. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.477. Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Reissuance.
A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for wastewater
discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete wastewater discharge
permit application, in accordance with section 7.465 of this article, a minimum
of ninety (90) calendar days prior to the expiration of the user's existing
wastewater discharge permit. The pretreatment coordinator shall designate a new
application date or accept the application submitted by the original due date
in the event that the permit duration is extended as provided by subsection
7.471D of this article. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.478. Regulation Of Waste Received From Other Jurisdictions.
   A.   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the city shall enter into an
intergovernmental agreement with the contributing municipality.
   B.   The city shall request the following information from the contributing
municipality at a frequency determined by the city:
      1.   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharge to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      2.   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      3.   Such other information as the pretreatment coordinator may deem
necessary.
   C.   An intergovernmental agreement, as required by subsection A of this
section, shall contain the following conditions:
      1.   A requirement that states the users in the contributing municipality
will abide by the pretreatment articles of the city for sewer use and local
limits for the area to be served by the city;
      2.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
nonresidential user inventory at a frequency determined by the city but likely
on an annual basis;
      3.   A provision specifying that pretreatment implementation activities,
including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and sampling, and
enforcement, may be conducted by the pretreatment coordinator; if the
contributing municipality that normally provides these services fails to act;
      4.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
pretreatment coordinator with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      5.   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality's wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      6.   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality's
discharge;
      7.   A provision ensuring the pretreatment coordinator access to the
facilities of users located within the contributing municipality's
jurisdictional boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any
other duties deemed necessary by the pretreatment coordinator; and
      8.   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms of
the intermunicipal agreement. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.48. Reporting Requirements
Sec. 7.480. Users To Provide Reports.
Each user of the treatment works and facilities of the city shall provide
reports as necessary to comply with this article and any wastewater discharge
permit. Reporting requirements may apply to users that are not required to
obtain a wastewater discharge permit. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.481. Pretreatment Requirements For Noncategorical Users.
Additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required by the city of user, not
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards, to meet pretreatment
standards and requirements should the city find that such user: a) does not
meet pretreatment standards and requirements applicable to its discharge or
causes or contributes to a sewage treatment plant upset; or b) if analysis of
such user's waste or observation of the effect of such wastes on the POTW
indicate that said wastes cannot be treated satisfactorily at such works, are
injurious to the POTW or to the treatment processes, or pollute the natural
waters within the city, its service areas or the waters of the state of
Illinois. Such facilities as the city may deem necessary for pretreatment of
the wastes shall be furnished by and at the expense of the user as a condition
of the discharge of said wastes into the POTW or to any natural water within
the city service area.
   A.   Pretreatment Review: The pretreatment coordinator will require the user
to initiate a pretreatment review through a telephone call followed by a
certified letter or by a certified letter to the authorized representative of
the user.
   B.   Pretreatment Initiation Meeting: A pretreatment initiation meeting will
be held between the pretreatment coordinator and the user to discuss the
problem and the solution to said problem. If it is determined by the
pretreatment coordinator as a result of such meeting that changes in operation
and maintenance, plant modifications, and/or the installation of pretreatment
equipment can resolve noncompliance, a schedule shall be established with
events and completion deadlines reasonably agreeable to both parties to resolve
the noncompliance. If appropriate, a compliance agreement defining the agreed
upon schedule will be sent from the city to the user shortly after the meeting.
If a schedule for compliance acceptable to the pretreatment coordinator cannot
be established, the matter will be referred for further enforcement action
consistent with the provisions of article IX of this chapter as appropriate.
   C.   Progress Reports: Progress reports will be filed by the user on a
schedule agreed to by the pretreatment coordinator and the user concerning the
completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of
additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the applicable
pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to, hiring an
engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts for major
components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operations). The user shall identify in said progress
reports whether or not it complied with the increment of progress, the reason
for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to return
to the established schedule.
   D.   Final Report: A final report will be filed with the pretreatment
coordinator by the user normally required within ninety (90) calendar days from
the end of the schedule deadline to verify the success or failure or the
schedule objective chosen by the user. The final report will if appropriate
identify the steps being taken by the user to resolve noncompliance. (Ord. O-
15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.482. Pretreatment Requirements For Categorical Industrial Users.
In the event that either the city, EPA, or a user determines that the user is
regulated as a categorical industrial user by standards and requirements
promulgated by the USEPA in accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the act,
the following reports are required to be filed by the user with both the city
and USEPA.
   A.   Baseline Monitoring Reports: Within either one hundred eighty (180)
calendar days after the effective date of a categorical pretreatment standard,
or the final administrative decision on a category determination under 40 CFR
403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing categorical industrial users
currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall submit to
the pretreatment coordinator a report which contains the information listed
below. At least ninety (90) calendar days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical industrial users
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall
submit to the pretreatment coordinator a report which contains the information
listed below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends
to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      1.   Identifying Information: The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
      2.   Environmental Permits: A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      3.   Description Of Operations: A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production (including each product produced by type, amount,
processes, and rate of production), and standard industrial classifications of
the operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      4.   Flow Measurement: Information showing the measured average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      5.   Measurements Of Pollutants:
         a.   The user shall identify the categorical pretreatment standards
applicable to each regulated process;
         b.   The user shall submit the results of sampling and analysis
identifying the nature and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the
standard or by the pretreatment coordinator, of regulated pollutants in the
discharge from each regulated process. Both daily maximum and average
concentration (or mass, where required) shall be reported. The sample shall be
representative of daily operations. In cases where the standard requires a best
management practice or pollution prevention alternative, the user shall submit
documentation as required by the pretreatment coordinator or the applicable
standards to determine compliance with the standard;
         c.   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
complete that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
A maximum of four (4) grab samples may be required to be used for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organic compounds;
         d.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment, the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow the use of the combined waste stream formula
of 40 CFR 403.6(e) in order to evaluate compliance with pretreatment standards.
Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e), this adjusted limit, along with supporting
data shall be submitted to the city;
         e.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in section
7.448 of this article and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set
out in section
7.449 of this article;
         f.   The pretreatment coordinator may allow the submission of a
baseline report which utilizes only historical data, so long as the data
provides information sufficient to determine the need for industrial
pretreatment measures; and
         g.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date, and place of
sampling and the methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the city.
      6.   Compliance Certification: A statement, reviewed by the user's
authorized representative of the CIU (as defined in section
7.101 of this chapter) and certified by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if
not, whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required for the CIU to meet the pretreatment standards and
requirements.
      7.   Compliance Schedule: If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in subsection B of this section.
      8.   Signature And Report Certification: All baseline monitoring reports
must be signed and certified in accordance with section
7.466 of this article.
   B.   Compliance Schedule Progress Reports: The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by subsection A7 of this section:
      1.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
      2.   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) calendar
months;
      3.   The user shall submit a progress report to the pretreatment
coordinator no later than fourteen (14) calendar days following each date in
the schedule and the final date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether
or not it complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay,
and, if appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to return to the
established schedule;
      4.   In no event shall more than nine (9) calendar months elapse between
such progress reports to the pretreatment coordinator; and
      5.   All compliance schedule progress reports must be signed and
certified in accordance with section
7.466 of this article.
   C.   Reports On Compliance With Categorical Pretreatment Standard Deadline:
Within ninety (90) calendar days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or, in the case of a new source,
within ninety (90) calendar days following commencement of the introduction of
wastewater into the POTW, any user subject to such pretreatment standards and
requirements shall submit to the pretreatment coordinator a report containing
the information described in subsection A of this section. For users subject to
equivalent mass or concentration limits established in accordance with the
procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure
of the user's long term production rate. For all other users subject to
categorical pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant
discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report
shall include the user's actual production during the appropriate sampling
period. All compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
section 7.466 of this article. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.483. Periodic Compliance Reports/Self-Monitoring Reports.
   A.   Significant Industrial Users:
      1.   Significant industrial users, at a frequency determined by the
pretreatment coordinator, but in no case less than twice per year on dates
specified by the city, shall submit a report to the city with a description of
the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited
by pretreatment standards and the measured or estimated average and daily flows
for the reporting period. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and
certified in accordance with section
7.466 of this article.
      2.   These reports shall be based on sampling and analysis performed in
the period covered by the report and performed in accordance with the
techniques described in 40 CFR part 136 and amendments thereto. All wastewater
samples must be representative of the user's discharge and comply with the
requirements of sections
7.448 and
7.449 of this article.
      3.   All sampling and analysis may be performed by the city in lieu of a
significant industrial user. In such cases, the city will issue an attachment
to the wastewater discharge permit that specifies the city will perform
sampling and analysis semiannually at minimum. All costs of sampling and
analysis will be performed at the expense of the SIU.
      4.   In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a
best management practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the user
must submit documentation required by the pretreatment coordinator or the
pretreatment standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
      5.   Where the city itself collects all the information required for the
report, the significant industrial user will not be required to submit the
report.
   B.   Categorical Industrial Users:
      1.   All categorical industrial users, at a frequency determined by the
pretreatment coordinator, but in no case less than twice per year on dates
specified by the city (normally in July and January), shall submit a report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge which
are limited by pretreatment standards and the measured or estimated average and
maximum daily flows for the reporting period. At the discretion of the city and
in consideration of such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays,
budget cycles, etc., the city may agree to alter the months during which the
above reports are to be submitted. All periodic compliance reports must be
signed and certified in accordance with section
7.466 of this article.
      2.   These reports shall be based on sampling and analysis performed in
the period covered by the report and performed in accordance with the
techniques described in 40 CFR part 136 and amendments thereto. All wastewater
samples must be representative of the user's discharge and comply with the
requirements of sections
7.448 and
7.449 of this article.
      3.   This sampling and analysis may be performed by the city in lieu of a
categorical industrial user. In such cases, the city will issue an attachment
to the wastewater discharge permit that specifies the city will perform
sampling and analysis semiannually at minimum. All costs of sampling and
analysis will be performed at the expense of the CIU.
      4.   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the pretreatment
coordinator, using the procedures prescribed in sections
7.448 and
7.449 of this article, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the
report.
      5.   Where the city has imposed mass limitations on users as provided for
by 40 CFR 403.6(c), the report required by subsection B1 of this section shall
indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by the pretreatment standards in the
discharge from the industrial user.
      6.   For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established by the city in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c),
the report required by subsection B1 of this section shall contain a reasonable
measure of the user's long term production rate. For all other users subject to
categorical pretreatment standards expressed only in terms of allowable
pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), the
report required by subsection B1 of this section shall include the user's
actual average production rate for the reporting period.
      7.   In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a
best management practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the user
must submit documentation required by the pretreatment coordinator or the
pretreatment standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
      8.   Upon approval of a monitoring waiver for pollutants found to be not
present and revision of the user's permit by the pretreatment coordinator, the
user must certify on each periodic report with the statement in subsection
7.465E of this article that there has been no increase in the pollutant in its
waste stream due to activities of the user with the following statement:
         Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 CFR           
(specify applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standard part(s)), I
certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, there has been no
increase in the level of the            (list the categorically regulated
Pollutant(s)) in the Wastewaters due to the activities at the facility since
filing of the last periodic report.
      9.   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user's operations,
the user must immediately comply with the monitoring requirements of subsection
B1 of this section or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by
the pretreatment coordinator, and notify the pretreatment coordinator.
   C.   Nonsignificant Categorical Users:
      1.   Report Frequency: Nonsignificant categorical industrial users as
defined in section
7.101 of this chapter shall, at a frequency determined by the pretreatment
coordinator but no less frequently than annually on dates specified by the
city, submit a report which contains the certification statement contained in
subsection C2 of this section.
      2.   Certification Statement:
         Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR
          , I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during
the period from               ,            to                ,           
(months, days, year):
         a)   The facility described as                      (facility name)
met the definition of a Non- Significant Categorical Industrial User as
described by Section 7.101 in Article I of Chapter 7;
         b)   The facility complied with all applicable Pretreatment Standards
and Requirements during this reporting period; and
         c)   The facility never discharged more than one hundred (100) gallons
of total categorical Wastewater on any given day during this reporting period.
This compliance certification is based on the following information:
The report is required to be signed by an authorized representative of the
user.
   D.   Other Nonsignificant Regulated Users:
      1.   Categorical zero process dischargers, noncategorical zero process
dischargers, batch dischargers, food service establishments and any firms
regulated by individual or general permit requirements, including, but not
limited to, best management practices, shall submit a report, at a frequency
determined by the pretreatment coordinator, at a frequency defined in their
wastewater discharge permit.
      2.   The reports may require sampling and analyses or some other measure
to determine compliance with permit pretreatment standards and requirements.
This sampling and analyses may be performed by the city in lieu of the user.
All costs of sampling and analyses will be performed at the expense of the
user. The user must submit documentation necessary to determine the compliance
status of user as defined by the pretreatment coordinator and identified in the
wastewater discharge permit.
      3.   All FSEs with GTs and GIs must maintain cleaning logs. These logs
shall be immediately available at the time of an inspection and are required to
contain the following information:
         a.   Person and company that performed the cleaning;
         b.   Measurement of the depth of solids blanket and grease cap prior
to cleaning in each trap or interceptor;
         c.   Volume of material removed from each trap or interceptor; and
         d.   Location where waste will be disposed.
A copy of the cleaning log may be required to be submitted to the city by a
date specified in a request issued by the pretreatment coordinator. (Ord. O-15-
001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.484. Reports From Nonpermitted Users.
All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the pretreatment coordinator as required. These reports
include, but are not limited to, surveys of business activities, water usage,
wastes discharged, spill and slug loading potential, pretreatment equipment,
waste hauling, and facility layout. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.485. Authorized Representative Change Notification.
Any significant industrial user that changes the authorized representative of
its company as defined in section 7.101 of this chapter, shall file a change
notice with the city within thirty (30) calendar days. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-
2015)
Sec. 7.486. Reports Of Changed Conditions.
Each user must notify the pretreatment coordinator of any planned substantial
changes to the user's operations or system which might alter the nature,
quality, or volume of its wastewater at least thirty (30) calendar days before
the change that results in an increase or addition or planned shutdown or
deletion of products. Immediate shutdowns or deletions of products are required
to be noticed within five (5) workdays of determination.
   A.   The pretreatment coordinator may require the user to submit such
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under
section
7.465 of this article.
   B.   The pretreatment coordinator may issue or modify an existing individual
or general wastewater discharge permit under sections
7.472 and
7.474 of this article in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed
conditions.
   C.   For purposes of this requirement, "substantial changes" include, but
are not limited to, flow increases of twenty percent (20%) or greater, the
addition or deletion of a shift, the discharge of any previously unreported
pollutants including changes to the listed or characteristic hazardous wastes
for which the user has submitted initial notification under section
7.489 of this article, introduction of a pollutant for which a monitoring
waiver had been obtained, the addition of a new process regardless of waste
discharge or lack of discharge, shutdown of a process, or addition or deletion
of a product.
   D.   Significant industrial users and categorical industrial users are
required to notify the pretreatment coordinator of any changes at its facility
affecting the potential for a slug discharge.
   E.   When shutdowns are scheduled, a closure plan is required to be
submitted to the pretreatment coordinator along with the notification. When
shutdowns are not scheduled, a closure plan will be required to be submitted
prior to the start of the cleanup and closure of the facility. Documentation of
the disposal of concentrated wastes in accordance with EPA requirements will be
required. In the case of an FSE, the GT and/or GI are required to be cleaned
prior to vacating the property. An inspection of a shutdown site shall be
required to confirm all chemicals and wastes have been removed from the site.
(Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.487. Reports Of Potential Problems.
   A.   Initial Accidental Discharge Notification: In the case of any
discharge, including, but not limited to, accidental discharges, discharges of
a nonroutine or episodic nature, a noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug
load, that may cause potential problems for the POTW, any user shall
immediately telephone and notify the pretreatment coordinator of the incident.
If this notification cannot be made to the POTW staff during routine business
hours, the user shall notify the city police department. This notification
shall include the name of the caller; location of the discharge; physical state
of discharge; the chemical composition, concentration, and volume, if known;
and the date and time of discharge as well as the duration of the discharge;
and any corrective actions taken by the user. The notification shall include
which federal, state, and local entities have also been notified by the user.
   B.   Control Production Of Discharges: The user shall control production of
all discharges to the extent necessary to maintain compliance with all
applicable regulations upon reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment
facility, until the facility is restored or an alternative method of treatment
is provided. This requirement includes the situation where, among other things,
the primary source of power of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or
fails.
   C.   Written Accidental Discharge Notification: Within five (5) workdays
following such discharge, the user shall, unless waived by the pretreatment
coordinator, submit a detailed written report describing the cause(s) of the
discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future
occurrences.
   D.   Notification Does Not Relieve Liability: Such notifications shall not
relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be
incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other
damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of
any fines, penalties, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this
article.
   E.   Notice Advising Of Contact: A notice/sign shall be permanently posted
on the user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees in
English and the language(s) of common use at the user's facility whom to call
in the event of a discharge described in subsection A of this section.
Employers shall ensure through documentation that all employees who may cause
such a discharge to occur are advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.488. Notice Of Violation/Repeat Sampling And Reporting.
If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the
pretreatment coordinator within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and shall
submit the results of the repeat analysis to the pretreatment coordinator
within thirty (30) calendar days after becoming aware of the violation. The
user is not required to resample if the pretreatment coordinator monitors at
the user's facility at least once a month, or if the pretreatment coordinator
samples between the user's initial sampling and when the user receives the
results of this sampling. If the city performed the sampling and analysis in
lieu of the user, the city will perform the repeat sampling and analysis,
unless it notifies the user of the violation and requires the user to perform
the repeat sampling and analysis. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.489. Notification Of The Discharge Of Hazardous Waste.
   A.   Pursuant to 40 CFR 40 3.12(P) any user who commences the discharge of
hazardous waste shall notify the POTW, the USEPA regional waste management
division director, and state hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any
discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would
be a hazardous waste under 40 CFR part 261. Such notification must include the
name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR part 261, the EPA hazardous
waste number, and the type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the
user discharges more than one hundred (100) kilograms of such waste per
calendar month to the POTW, the notification also shall contain the following
information to the extent such information is known and readily available to
the user: an identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes, an estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the
waste stream discharged during that calendar month, and an estimation of the
mass of constituents in the waste stream expected to be discharged during the
following twelve (12) months. All notifications must take place no later than
one hundred eighty (180) calendar days after the discharge commences. Any
notification under this subsection need be submitted only once for each
hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed conditions must
be submitted under section
7.486 of this article. The notification requirement in this section does not
apply to pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under the self-monitoring requirements of subsections
7.482A, C, and
7.483B of this article.
   B.   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of subsection A of this
section, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than fifteen
(15) kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than
fifteen (15) kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of
any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and
261.33(e), requires a onetime notification. Subsequent months during which the
user discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
   C.   In the case of any new regulations under section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the
pretreatment coordinator, the USEPA regional waste management waste division
director, and state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such
substance within ninety (90) calendar days of the effective date of such
regulations.
   D.   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user shall
certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of
hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be economically
practical.
   E.   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this article or to a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.490. Report Submittal Due Dates.
Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date postmarked.
For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail facility
serviced by the United States postal service, the date of receipt of the report
shall govern. In order to meet deadlines, reports may be faxed or e-mailed on
the due date to the city or to an authorized designee as listed in the permit
or permit issuance letter. The original of the fax or e-mail is required to be
mailed to the city postmarked within one workday of the transmission. (Ord. O-
15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.49. Affirmative Defenses To Discharge Violations
Sec. 7.491. Upset.
   A.   For the purposes of this section, "upset" means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   B.   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of subsection C of this section are met.
   C.   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      1.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      2.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      3.   The user has submitted the following information to the pretreatment
coordinator within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset (if
this information is provided orally, a written report must be provided within 5
workdays):
         a.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         b.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         c.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   D.   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   E.   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   F.   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.492. Bypass.
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section:
   BYPASS: The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user's treatment facility.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE: Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial
and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to
occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not mean economic
loss caused by delays in production.
   B.   Bypass For Essential Maintenance: A user may allow any bypass to occur
which does not cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but
only if it also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation.
These bypasses are not subject to the provision of subsections C and D of this
section.
   C.   Bypass Notifications:
      1.   Anticipated: If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it
shall submit prior notice to the pretreatment coordinator, at least ten (10)
workdays before the date of the bypass, if possible.
      2.   Unanticipated: A user shall submit oral notice to the pretreatment
coordinator of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment
standards within twenty four (24) hours from the time it becomes aware of the
bypass. A written submission shall also be provided within five (5) workdays of
the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall
contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass,
including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the
anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to
reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The pretreatment
coordinator may waive the written report on a case by case basis if the oral
report has been received within twenty four (24) hours.
   D.   POTW Actions:
      1.   Bypass is prohibited, and the pretreatment coordinator may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         a.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         b.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         c.   The user submitted notices as required under subsection C of this
section.
      2.   The pretreatment coordinator may approve an anticipated bypass,
after considering its adverse effects, if the pretreatment coordinator
determines that it will meet the three (3) conditions listed in subsection D1
of this section. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.493. Prohibited Discharge Limitations.
A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in subsection
7.442A, or C1, C3 through C18, and C20 through C28 of this article if it can
prove it did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass-through or
interference and that either:
   A.   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass-through or
interference; or
   B.   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when the city was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements. (Ord. O-
15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.49.5. Miscellaneous Provisions
Sec. 7.495. Severability.
If any provision of this article is invalidated by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall not be affected and shall continue
in full force and effect. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.496. Conflict.
All other articles and parts of other articles inconsistent or conflicting with
any part of this article are hereby repealed to the extent of such
inconsistency or conflict. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.497. Offenses Under Previous Articles.
This article shall not be construed or held to repeal a former article, whether
such former article is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense committed
against such former article or as to any act done, any penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising under the former
article, or in any way whatever to affect such offense or act so committed or
so done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment so incurred or any right
accrued or claim arising before the new article takes effect, save only that
proceedings thereafter shall conform to the article in force at the time of
such proceeding, so far as practicable. Nothing contained in this article shall
be construed as abating any action now pending. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
ARTICLE V
CROSS CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
7.501. General Policy
7.502. Definitions
7.503. Water System
7.504. Cross Connection Prohibited
7.505. Survey And Investigations
7.506. Where Protection Is Required
7.507. Type Of Protection Required
7.508. Backflow Prevention Devices
7.509. Inspection And Maintenance
7.510. Booster Pumps
7.511. Violations
Sec. 7.501. General Policy.
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
   B.   Application: These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the city of Wood Dale.
   C.   Policy: The director shall be responsible for protection of the public
water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back siphonage of
contaminants through the customer's water service connection. All plumbing
installed within the city of Wood Dale shall be installed in accordance with
the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890. If, in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of the director
or his authorized representative, an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the director shall
give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention device
at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall immediately
install such approved device or devices at his own expense at a location and in
a manner in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code and all applicable local
regulations; failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to
install such device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for
discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or devices have
been installed. The consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance,
testing and repair as required in subsection
7.505D4 of this article for a period of at least five (5) years. The director
may require the consumer to submit a cross connection inspection report to the
city of Wood Dale to assist in determining whether or not service line
protection will be required. All cross connection inspections shall be
conducted by a cross connection control device inspector certified by the
Illinois environmental protection agency. (Ord. O-03-019, 7-24-2003)
Sec. 7.502. Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
these regulations:
AGENCY: Illinois environmental protection agency.
APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation For Cross-Connection Control of the University Of Southern
California, Association Of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
plumbing code and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
CITY: City of Wood Dale.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's premises. A
building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water system.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   Direct Cross Connection: A cross connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   Indirect Cross Connection: A cross connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
DIRECTOR: The city of Wood Dale director of public works.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping, and appurtenances, appliances and installation of
a plumbing system for compliance with the requirements of the Illinois plumbing
code, 77 Illinois administrative code part 890 section 890.1130 - protection of
potable water.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative code 601 et seq.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including,
without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to,
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, from discharge of pumping units to
and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing includes all
piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building drain and a
sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or buildings
where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection
of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system
five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative
code 601 et seq., for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollution, or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Polluted or contaminated waters;
   B.   Process waters;
   C.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
   D.   Cooling waters;
   E.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams, or irrigation systems;
   F.   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
   G.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least fifteen (15) service connections or which
regularly serve at least twenty five (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per
year. A public water supply is either a "community water supply" or a
"noncommunity water supply".
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances, at
the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply system and
must include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date of
all cross connection control devices and methods located within that customer's
piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should not be an actual
plumbing inspection.
SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a consumer's
water system after it has passed through the service connection and is no
longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of a public water system. (Ord.
O-03-019, 7-24-2003; amd. O-15-005, 2-19-2015)
Sec. 7.503. Water System.
   A.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   B.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the director up to the point where
the consumer's water system begins.
   C.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   D.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
system.
   E.   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use. (Ord. O-03-019, 7-24-2003)
Sec. 7.504. Cross Connection Prohibited.
No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established or
maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary
or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
city of Wood Dale enters the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
director of city services and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   A.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   B.   1. No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the city of Wood Dale.
      2.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply. (Ord. O-03-019, 7-24-2003)
Sec. 7.505. Survey And Investigations.
It shall be the duty of the director of city services to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the director shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys shall be
maintained and available for review for a period of at least five (5) years.
   A.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross connections within the consumer's premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross connection control devices within the
consumer's premises.
   B.   On request by the director, or his authorized representative, the
consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping system or systems or
water use within the customer's premises. The consumer's premises shall be open
at all reasonable times to the superintendent of water for the verification of
information submitted by the inspection consumer to the public water supply
custodian regarding cross connection inspection results. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the director, be
deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided in this
article.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross connections to his water system through
which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable
water system. All cross connection control or other plumbing inspections must
be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/3(1).
   D.   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow into
the public water system by ensuring that:
      1.   Removal: All cross connections are removed; or approved cross
connection control devices are installed for control of backflow and back
siphoning.
      2.   Installation: Cross connection control devices shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Inspection: Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at
the time of installation and at least annually by a person approved by the
agency as a cross connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection
of mechanical devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions.
      4.   Testing And Records:
         a.   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         b.   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by agency personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4.
         c.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
         d.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            (1)   Date of each test;
            (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            (3)   Test results;
            (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
            (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
            (6)   Servicing performed and date completed. (Ord. O-03-019, 7-24-
2003)
Sec. 7.506. Where Protection Is Required.
   A.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 680. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving premises
where, in the judgment of the director, actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply system exist.
   B.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the director and the source is
approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the director.
      3.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the director and the cross connection control device inspector, are not
correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
determine whether or not cross connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
   C.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving, but not
necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities unless the director
determines that no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system
exists:
Aircraft and missile storage/manufacturing facility.
Automotive repair or manufacturing facility.
Auxiliary water systems.
Beauty/barber facility.
Beverage bottling facility.
Breweries and distilleries.
Canneries.
Car wash facility.
Chemical processing storage or manufacturing facility.
Chemically contaminated water systems.
Civil works and government facilities.
Clinics.
Cold storage facility.
Commercial rental units where may vary with tenant.
Dairies.
Dentist offices.
Docks and dockside facilities.
Dry cleaning facility.
Dye plants.
Electrical transmission or generating facility.
Fertilizer storage/manufacturing facility.
Fill stations for chemical mixing.
Film processing facility.
Fire protection systems.
Food processing facility.
Hospitals.
Ice manufacturing facility.
Irrigation systems.
Laboratories.
Laundries.
Machine tool manufacturing facility.
Manufacturing facility.
Marine repair or manufacturing facility.
Medical building.
Metal manufacturing facility cleaning and fabrication.
Morgues and mortuaries.
Multi-story buildings.
Multiple services interconnected.
Nursing homes.
Oil and gas production or storage facility.
Packinghouse or rendering facility.
Paper and paper production or storage facility.
Pesticide or exterminating company or facility.
Pharmaceutical or cosmetic facility.
Photo processing facility.
Photographic studio.
Plastic injection and molding facility.
Plating facility.
Pleasure boat marina.
Power generating facility.
Premises where inspection restricted.
Premises with boilers.
Radioactive material plant or facility.
Restaurants.
Restricted, classified, or closed facility.
Rubber processing facility (natural or synthetic).
Sand and gravel processing facility.
Schools and colleges.
Sewage and/or stormwater collection and pumping facility.
Sewage and/or stormwater treatment plants.
Solar heating system.
Steam boiler plant or facility.
Swimming pool (public).
Veterinary clinics or establishments.
Warehouse and storage facility.
Waterfront facility or industry, marina. (Ord. O-03-019, 7-24-2003)
Sec. 7.507. Type Of Protection Required.
   A.   The type of protection required under subsections 7.506B1, B2, and B3
of this article shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
      1.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could
cause a severe health hazard.
      2.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be polluted with substances that could cause a
pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
   B.   The type of protection required under subsection 7.506B4 of this
article shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
   C.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      2.   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      3.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      4.   There is a connection whereby another source can be connected to the
sprinkler system.
   D.   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines as
described in plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890. (Ord. O-03-
019, 7-24-2003)
Sec. 7.508. Backflow Prevention Devices.
All backflow prevention devices shall meet standards within title 77 of the
Illinois administrative code - part 890 section 890.1130. (Ord. O-15-005, 2-19-
2015)
Sec. 7.509. Inspection And Maintenance.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions:
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within fifteen (15) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five (5)
days.
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   C.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   D.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      3.   Test results;
      4.   Repairs or servicing required;
      5.   Repairs and date completed; and
      6.   Servicing performed and date completed.
   E.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by subsection A of this section.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
director. (Ord. O-03-019, 7-24-2003)
Sec. 7.510. Booster Pumps.
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low pressure
cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the director, at least
once a year, that the device is operable. (Ord. O-03-019, 7-24-2003)
Sec. 7.511. Violations.
   A.   The director shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice to the
occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any backflow
prevention device required by these regulations is not installed, tested,
maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the director, or if it is
found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if
an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises, or if a low pressure
cutoff required by these regulations is not installed and maintained in working
order. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
director is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public
water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of the director or the Illinois environmental protection
agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or
pollution of the public water supply. (Ord. O-03-019, 7-24-2003)
   B.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with
these regulations and to the satisfaction of the director, and the required
reconnection fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00) is paid.
   C.   Reserved. (Ord. O-15-005, 2-19-2015)
   D.   Neither the city of Wood Dale, the director, or its agents or assigns
shall be liable to any customers of the city of Wood Dale for any injury,
damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's
water supply in accordance with the terms of this article, whether or not said
termination of the water supply was with or without notice.
   E.   The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   F.   Any person found to be violating any provision of these rules and
regulations shall be served with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violation.
   G.   Any person violating any of the provisions of these rules and
regulations in addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the city
of Wood Dale for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city of Wood
Dale by reason of such violations, whether the same was caused before or after
notice. (Ord. O-03-019, 7-24-2003)
ARTICLE VI
LOCAL LIMITS
SECTION:
Part 7.60. General Provisions
7.601. Enactment
7.602. Relationship To Other Articles In This Chapter
Part 7.61. Local Limits Provided
7.611. Conventional Pollutants; Guidelines For Discharge
7.612. Toxic Pollutants; Local Limits
7.613. Other Local Limit Requirements
Part 7.62. Validity
7.621. Severability
7.622. Conflict
Part 7.60. General Provisions
Sec. 7.601. Enactment.
Pursuant to the requirements of the federal clean water act and regulations
promulgated thereunder; the Illinois environmental protection act of 1970, as
amended, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.; and the Illinois municipal
code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1-1 et seq., this code, providing for
the local limits for the sewer use and pretreatment code ("limits code") as
referenced in article IV of this chapter, is hereby enacted by the city council
of the city of Wood Dale. The following pollutant limits are established to
carry out the purposes and policies established in section
7.402 of this chapter. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.602. Relationship To Other Articles In This Chapter.
The definitions and abbreviations in article I of this chapter, shall apply to
this article. This article applies to the sewer use and pretreatment code in
article IV of this chapter. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.61.Local Limits Provided
Sec. 7.611. Conventional Pollutants; Guidelines For Discharge.
The following are the guidelines established by the city council pursuant to
the authority granted by subsection
7.445A of this chapter. No user should discharge any wastewater containing
concentrations greater than the daily maximum or instantaneous guidelines as
set forth below into any sewers that connect either directly or indirectly to
the POTW.
Pollutant Concentration (mg/l)
          Daily Maximum Instantaneous
Pollutant                        Concentration (mg/l)
                                 Daily Maximum Instantaneous
Ammonia nitrogen                 25.0
BOD                              300
Barium                           25.0
Boron                            5.0
COD                              900
Chloride                         1200
Manganese                        5.0
Molybdenum                       10.0
Nitrogen                         Reserved
Oil and grease (FSE sources)                   200
Oil and grease (non-FSE sources)               100
Phenols                                        0.6
Phosphorus                       Reserved
Selenium                         1.2
Sulfate                          Reserved
TSS                              350
 
The city reserves the right to set specific limits for all pollutants above on
a case by case basis. These limits shall be set forth in a wastewater discharge
permit per parts
7.46 and
7.47 of this chapter. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.612. Toxic Pollutants; Local Limits.
The following are the local limits established by the city council pursuant to
the authority granted by subsection
7.445B of this chapter of the sewer use and pretreatment code. No user shall
discharge any wastewater containing concentrations greater than the daily
maximum or instantaneous local limits as set forth below into any sewers that
connect either directly or indirectly to the POTW. Multiple industrial
discharges from a permitted facility may be combined with the following
limitations upon approval by the POTW:
Pollutant                       Concentration (mg/l)
(Total Unless Otherwise Listed) Daily Maximum Instantaneous
Pollutant                                   Concentration (mg/l)
(Total Unless Otherwise Listed)             Daily Maximum Instantaneous
Arsenic                                     1.0
Cadmium                                     0.3
Chromium                                    14.0
Chromium (hexavalent)                                     2.0
Copper                                      0.4
Cyanide                                                   1.8
Lead                                        1.0
Mercury (see section 7.444 of this chapter) 0.0005
Nickel                                      0.5
Silver                                      8.0
Zinc                                        1.5
 
Individual wastewater discharge permits identify requirements for testing of
these pollutants. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.613. Other Local Limit Requirements.
   A.   Location: The city will apply the local limits found in sections
7.611 and
7.612 of this article normally at the end of pipe point where the
nonresidential wastewater is discharged to the public sewer system. The city
reserves the right to apply said local limits at an end of process discharge
location that connects to the public sewer system in the event that a unique
sampling manhole at end of pipe is not available.
   B.   No Suitable Sampling Manhole: In the event that a suitable sampling
manhole does not exist as per section
7.425 of this chapter and no end of process discharge location exists, the
"sampling facility" shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in
the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   C.   FSE Twenty Five Percent Requirement: The last section of an external GI
at an FSE shall be measured to determine that the total volume of the GI being
used for any food derived solids to settle or accumulate plus the floatable
grease derived materials that rise and accumulate, identified as a solids
blanket and grease cap respectively, is less than twenty five percent (25%) of
the total design hydraulic depth as measured from the effluent discharge pipe
to the bottom ("twenty five percent requirement"). The city will apply the
twenty five percent (25%) requirement above normally at the discharge side of
the external grease interceptor prior to mixing with any other wastewater from
the contributing FSE's property. The city reserves the right to apply the
action level for discharge at an end of pipe discharge location that connects
to the public sewer system in the event that a unique sampling location in the
end compartment of the GI is not available or there is no external GI. The city
also reserves the right to apply said action level to the discharge in the next
sanitary sewer manhole downstream of the facility in the event that there is
neither a GI sampling location nor a sampling manhole at the site. The city may
also apply the twenty five percent (25%) requirement for external GI that are
used in non- FSE locations such as automobile service, repair and dispensing
properties.
   D.   Quantities And Rates Of Discharge: The city reserves the right to
establish, by code or in a wastewater discharge permit or general permit, to
require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
   E.   Mass Limitations: The city reserves the right to establish, by code or
in a wastewater discharge permit, mass limitations rather than concentration
limitations on discharges, particularly in cases where users are using dilution
to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements or in other cases
where the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
   F.   Site Specific Standards: The city reserves the right to establish site
specific standards for any applicable pollutants on a case by case basis. These
standards shall be set forth in a wastewater discharge permit per section
7.472 of this chapter.
   G.   BMPs: The city reserves the right to require development and
implementation of best management practices (BMPs), by code or in individual
wastewater discharge permits or general permits, to implement local limits and
the requirements of section
7.442 of this chapter.
   H.   Pretreatment By City: Any user, whose discharge is pretreated by the
city pursuant to the city's determination that such pretreatment is more
effective and which discharges pollutants into the city's facilities so as to
necessitate the city's alteration of its method of wastewater treatment or
sludge disposal to a more costly method, shall be assessed the differential
cost between the more costly method of treatment and the less costly method of
treatment. Such costs shall only be assessed upon approval of the city council.
(Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.62. Validity
Sec. 7.621. Severability.
If any provision of this article is invalidated by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall not be affected and shall continue
in full force and effect. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.622. Conflict.
All other rules and regulations and parts of other rules and regulations
inconsistent or conflicting with any part of this code are hereby repealed to
the extent of such inconsistency or conflict. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
ARTICLE VII
USER CHARGE AND SURCHARGE
SECTION:
7.701. Sewer Service Rates
7.702. Industrial Wastewater Flow And Strength
7.703. User Charges Established
7.704. Surcharges
7.705. Delinquencies In Payment Of Bills
7.706. Notice Of Rates
7.707. Appeals
7.708. Disposition And Record Of Revenues
Sec. 7.701. Sewer Service Rates.
   A.   Basis For Wastewater Service Charges: The sanitary sewer and wastewater
service charges for the use of and for the service supplied by the sanitary
sewer system of the city shall consist of a component user charge to pay
expenses for the operation and maintenance costs and replacement of the
sanitary sewer system.
      1.   User Charge: The user charge shall be based on water consumption as
recorded by water meters or, if available, sewage meters for the purpose of
paying the expenses associated with operation and maintenance costs and
replacement of the system. The basic user charge will be applicable for wastes
having the following average waste characteristics:
         a.   A five (5) day, twenty degrees centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of two hundred four milligrams per liter (204 mg/l);
         b.   A total suspended solids (TSS) content of two hundred forty
milligrams per liter (240 mg/l);
         c.   An ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N) content of sixteen milligrams per
liter (16 mg/l) based on one hundred (100) gpcpd.
      2.   User Charge Components: The user charge consists of several
components and shall be computed by adding the following:
         a.   A charge for a proportion of the estimate of the annual operation
and maintenance costs of the sanitary sewer system, including equipment
replacement for the year, for all works and categories (reflected in the flat
demand);
         b.   A charge for a proportion of the annual estimated costs to treat
wastewater categories by volume, total suspended solids, BOD and ammonia
nitrogen;
         c.   A charge for a proportion of the costs per thousand gallons to
treat average strength wastewater; and
         d.   Actual unit costs per thousand gallons and per pound of BOD, TSS
and NH3-N based on average strength waste.
      3.   Review Of User Charge: All sanitary sewer and wastewater service
charges shall be reviewed periodically to determine whether the charges are
adequate to support operation and maintenance costs including equipment
replacement costs. The purpose of periodic review is to assure that each user
pays a proportionate share of the operation and maintenance costs, and to
maintain proportionality of the user charge system.
   B.   Metered Flow:
      1.   The volume of flow used for computing user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      2.   If the persons discharging any wastewater into the trunk line
procure any part or all of their water from sources other than the public
waterworks system, the discharger shall, if directed by the city, install and
maintain, at his expense, sewer meters or water meters of a type approved by
the city for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from these
other sources.
      3.   Devices for measuring the volume of wastewater discharged may be
required by the city if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
      4.   Metering devices for determining the volume of wastewater shall be
installed and maintained by the user at the user's sole cost and expense.
Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed without the
consent of the director of public works. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.702. Industrial Wastewater Flow And Strength.
   A.   Within ninety (90) days of the date of notification by the city, users
identified to be regulated with industrial discharge permits shall install and
maintain at their expense acceptable water meters or flow metering devices and
sampling manholes, as required, to determine wastewater characteristics
discharged to the sanitary sewer system. Flow metering devices installed in
sampling manholes on lateral lines will be required for measurement of the
volume of wastewater discharged to the public sewers when volumes cannot
otherwise be determined from metered water consumption records. This
determination shall be made by the city.
   B.   The industrial user shall install and maintain wastewater samplers and
hire an approved laboratory to complete wastewater testing when directed by the
city. Waste sampling and testing shall be completed by the industrial user as
often as may be deemed by the city to be necessary and all certified test
results shall be forwarded to the city. The city shall reserve the right to
sample and test all industrial users at any time and bill the industrial users
for all involved costs. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.703. User Charges Established.
   A.   Basic User Charge: There shall be and there is hereby established a
user charge, being a basic user rate per thousand gallons, to be applied to
each meter for a single-family and multiple-family dwelling unit and to each
meter for a single commercial and industrial unit receiving service. The actual
user rates are identified in section
7.821 of the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015; amd. Ord. O-18-
024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 7.704. Surcharges.
   A.   All commercial, industrial, and institutional/governmental users shall
pay a surcharge in addition to the basic user charge. Section
7.822 of the master fee schedule specifies the procedure to compute a
surcharge. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015; amd. Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 7.705. Delinquencies In Payment Of Bills.
The delinquency provisions contained in section
7.204 of this chapter shall apply in all respects to any delinquencies in the
payment of bills for sanitary sewer services. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.706. Notice Of Rates.
Each user shall be notified annually, in conjunction with a regular invoice, of
the user charges and that portion of the user charges which are attributable to
the wastewater treatment works. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.707. Appeals.
The method of computation of rates and charges establishing user charges as set
forth in this article shall be made available to a user within fourteen (14)
days of receipt of his written request for such. Any disagreement over the
method used or in the computations thereof shall be heard by the City Manager
within ninety (90) days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining
the discrepancies. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.708. Disposition And Record Of Revenues.
   A.   Waterworks And Sewage Fund: All revenues and monies derived from the
operation of the sanitary sewer system shall be deposited in the sewage account
of the Combined Waterworks and Sewage Fund. All such revenues and monies shall
be held by the City Treasurer separate and apart from his or her private funds
and separate and apart from all other funds of the City, and the City Clerk
shall deliver all of said sums, without any deductions whatever, to the City
Treasurer not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same or at such more
frequent intervals as may, from time to time, be directed by the City Council.
Said Treasurer shall administer the Waterworks and Sewage Fund in accord with
the law.
   B.   Annual Audit; Financial Information: In addition to the customary
operating statements, the annual audit report of the City Treasurer shall also
reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the sanitary sewer system,
including a replacement cost, to indicate whether capital amounts required to
be recovered from the user charges do, in fact, meet these regulations. In this
regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit report shall include
the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users.
      6.   A list of users discharging nonresidential nondomestic wastewater
(industrial users) and volume and strength of wastewater discharged. (Ord. O-
15-001, 1-15-2015)
ARTICLE VIII
FEES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
Part 7.80. General Provisions
7.801. Enactment
7.802. Relationship To Other Articles In This Chapter
Part 7.81. Sewer Extension And Connection Requirements
7.811. Private Sewage Disposal Systems
7.812. Grinder Pump System
7.813. Building Sewer Connection Permit Fees
7.814. Independent Review Fees
7.815. Inspections Fees
Part 7.82. Sewer Use Charges
7.821. User Charges Established
7.822. Surcharges
Part 7.83. Pretreatment Fees
7.831. Pretreatment Fees Provided
7.832. Wastewater Discharge Permit Application
Part 7.84. Information Required Of Nonresidential Users
7.841. Miscellaneous Fees
7.842. Recovery Of Costs Incurred
Part 7.85. Validity
7.851. Severability
7.852. Conflict
Part 7.80. General Provisions
Sec. 7.801. Enactment.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Federal Clean Water Act and regulations
promulgated thereunder; the Illinois Environmental Protection Act of 1970, as
amended, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.; and the Illinois Municipal
Code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1-1 et seq., this Code establishing the
fees and charges ("Fees Code") for the requirements in this chapter, is hereby
enacted by the City Council of the City of Wood Dale. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-
2015)
Sec. 7.802. Relationship To Other Articles In This Chapter.
The definitions and abbreviations in article I of this chapter, shall apply to
this article. This article applies to the Sewer Use and Pretreatment Code in
article IV of this chapter, and local limits in article VI of this chapter.
(Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.81. Sewer Extension And Connection Requirements
Sec. 7.811. Private Sewage Disposal Systems.
Fees are established, assessed and specified in the master fee schedule by the
City Council pursuant to the authority granted by subsection 7.422B of this
chapter for properties within the City of Wood Dale that are permitted to have
private sewer facilities. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 7.812. Grinder Pump System.
Fees are established, assessed and specified in the master fee schedule by the
City Council pursuant to the authority granted by subsection
7.422C of this chapter for properties within the City of Wood Dale that are
permitted to have a grinder pump system. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 7.813. Building Sewer Connection Permit Fees.
The following are the fees established and assessed by the City Council to be
charged for sanitary sewer connections pursuant to the authority granted by
section
7.423 of this chapter:
   A.   The connection permit fee for making a connection to a sanitary sewer
system shall be based on the diameter of the domestic water pipe to supply such
building, user class, and a per unit basis as follows:
      1.   Residential uses: Fee is as specified in the master fee schedule.
      2.   Nonresidential: Includes all commercial, institutional/governmental
and industrial users. Fee is as specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-
18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 7.814. Independent Review Fees.
Per subsection
7.423E of this chapter. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 7.815. Inspections Fees.
   A.   Inspection Fees: An inspection fee as specified in the master fee
schedule shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time the application is filed.
This inspection fee is in addition to the sewer connection permit fee and in
addition to user charges, the provisions of which are detailed in section
7.424 of this chapter. The industrial user, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its activities and its
wastewater constituent characteristics. An additional fee as specified in the
master fee schedule will be charged for all inspections required to perform at
times other than regular City business hours and for each additional inspection
in excess of one inspection. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Part 7.82. Sewer Use Charges
Sec. 7.821. User Charges Established.
   A.   Basic User Rate: All users of sewer provided by the City having a
direct connection with City sewer mains shall pay a monthly bill per account
consisting of a fixed fee and a variable usage fee as specified in the master
fee schedule.
All bills for service shall be rendered as of the first day of each month
succeeding the period for which service is billed and shall be payable upon
receipt and not later than the close of business of the twenty first day of the
month. Bills paid after the due date shall be subject to a penalty as specified
in the master fee schedule monthly. In the event an estimated bill is rendered,
the bill for user charge shall be based on the usage history of the account
during the previous twelve (12) billing periods.
   B.   Application And Provisions For Rate Reduction: Upon written application
from any residents whose household income is not more than the very low income
figures established by the income eligibility rates, published by the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), effective July 1 ,
1979, and as currently revised, as verified by the resident's previous year's
U.S. Federal Income Tax return, the City Collector shall authorize a rate
reduction as specified in the master fee schedule; provided, however, that such
persons are also:
      1.   Heads of households entitled to and receiving benefits under the
Social Security Act or benefits under other pension plans and are at least
sixty two (62) years of age; or
      2.   Widowers or widows having dependent children; or
      3.   Totally disabled; or
      4.   United States military veterans.
         Proof of eligibility shall be submitted annually thereafter to said
City Collector. Said rate reduction shall not result in a credit to any user's
account.
   C.   User Charge, Nonmetered Accounts:
      1.   Connections Located Within The Corporate Limits Of The City: There
shall be and there is hereby established a user charge to be applied to all
nonmetered single- and multiple-family dwelling units, each commercial and
industrial unit, and institutional/governmental units located within the
corporate limits of the City of Wood Dale receiving sanitary sewer service with
rates as specified in the master fee schedule.
      In the event use by a user of the sanitary sewer system is determined by
the City to be in excess of gallons per monthly billing period, the City may
require such flat rate user to install metering devices on the water service
line or trunk line to measure the amount of service being received.
      All bills for service shall be rendered as of the first day of each month
succeeding the period for which service is billed and shall be payable upon
receipt and not later than the close of business on the twenty first day after
billing. Bills paid after the due date shall be subject to a penalty as
specified in the master fee schedule monthly. In the event an estimated bill is
rendered, the bill for user charge shall be based on the usage history of the
account during the previous twelve (12) billing periods.
      2.   Connections Located Outside The Corporate Limits Of The City: There
shall be and there is hereby established a user charge to be applied to all
nonmetered single- and multiple-family dwelling units, each commercial and
industrial unit, and institutional/governmental units located outside the
corporate limits of the City of Wood Dale receiving sanitary sewer service with
rates as specified in the master fee schedule.
      In the event use by a user of the sanitary sewer system is determined by
the City to be in excess of gallons per monthly billing period, the City may
require such flat rate user to install metering devices on the sanitary sewer
service line to measure the amount of sanitary sewer service being received.
      All bills for service shall be rendered as of the first day of each month
succeeding the period for which service is billed and shall be payable upon
receipt and not later than the close of business on the twenty first day after
billing. Bills paid after the due date shall be subject to a penalty as
specified in the master fee schedule monthly. In the event the user fails to
provide the City with current water meter readings prior to the first day of
each month so that a more accurate monthly sewage flow can be determined, and
an estimated bill is rendered, such estimated bill shall be in an amount equal
to the highest monthly sewage bill issued by the City the previous month for
users located within its corporate limits.
   D.   Large Commercial User: any commercial water user with a monthly
consumption quantity from the Wood Dale Municipal Water System exceeding
750,000 gallons during peak load in any month within the previous twelve
months, with a rate as specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-
19-2018; amd. Ord. O-20-008, 4-16-2020; Ord. O-22-023, 8-18-2022)
Sec. 7.822. Surcharges.
All restaurants, commercial, industrial, government, and institutional users
shall pay a surcharge in addition to the basic user charge. The surcharge shall
be as specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   A.   The City retains the option of requiring an extra strength surcharge
based on laboratory data from an individual discharge for BOD or billable BOD
and TSS. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015; amd. Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Part 7.83. Pretreatment Fees
Sec. 7.831. Pretreatment Fees Provided.
The charges for sections
7.831 and
7.832 of this part, which shall apply to those users subject to the
pretreatment program with discharge permits are based on water usage and are
specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 7.832. Wastewater Discharge Permit Application.
See section
7.831 of this part for charges. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Part 7.84. Information Required Of Nonresidential Users
Sec. 7.841. Miscellaneous Fees.
Miscellaneous fees are established, assessed and specified in the master fee
schedule for sections
7.841 and
7.842 of this part by the City Council pursuant to the authority granted by
articles IV, "Sewer Use And Pretreatment", and VII, "User Charge And
Surcharge", of this chapter. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 7.842. Recovery Of Costs Incurred.
See section
7.841 of this part for fees. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Part 7.85. Validity
Sec. 7.851. Severability.
If any provision of this article is invalidated by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall not be affected and shall continue
in full force and effect. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.852. Conflict.
All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or conflicting
with any part of this article are hereby repealed to the extent of such
inconsistency or conflict. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
ARTICLE IX
WASTEWATER ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
Part 7.90. General Provisions
7.901. Enactment
7.902. Relationship To Other Articles In This Chapter
Part 7.91. Compliance Monitoring
7.911. Right Of Entry; Inspection And Sampling
7.912. Recordkeeping
7.913. Search Warrants
Part 7.92. Availability Of Information
7.921. Information Available To Public
Part 7.93. Publication Of Users In Significant Noncompliance
7.931. Significant Noncompliance
Part 7.94. Administrative Enforcement Remedies
7.941. Notification Of Violation And Administrative Fines
7.942. Compliance Agreements
7.943. Termination Of Discharge And Emergency Suspensions
Part 7.95. Fees And Costs
7.951. Failure To Report Or Notify
7.952. Recovery Of Costs Incurred
Part 7.96. Fines, Penalties, And Judicial Enforcement Remedies
7.961. Administrative Fines
7.962. Injunctive Relief
7.963. Civil Penalties
7.964. Remedies Nonexclusive
Part 7.97. Supplemental Enforcement Action
7.971. Performance Bonds
7.972. Liability Insurance
7.973. Payment For Outstanding Fees And Penalties
7.974. Water Supply Severance
7.975. Public Nuisances
7.976. Contractor Listing
Part 7.98. Miscellaneous Fees
7.981. Pretreatment Program Funding
7.982. Pretreatment Charges And Fees
7.983. Additional Remedies
Part 7.99. Miscellaneous Provisions
7.991. Severability
7.992. Conflict
7.993. Offenses Under Previous Articles
Part 7.90.General Provisions
Sec. 7.901. Enactment.
Pursuant to the requirements of the federal clean water act and regulations
promulgated thereunder; the Illinois environmental protection act of 1970, as
amended; and in accordance with Illinois municipal code, this article, hereby
known as ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS FOR ARTICLE IV, SEWER USE AND PRETREATMENT
CODES OF CHAPTER 7, is hereby enacted by the city council of the city of Wood
Dale. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.902. Relationship To Other Articles In This Chapter.
The definitions and abbreviations in article I of this chapter, shall apply to
this article. This article applies to the sewer use and pretreatment code in
article IV of this chapter; local limits in article VI of this chapter; user
charge and surcharge provisions in article VII of this chapter; and fees in
article VIII of this chapter. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.91. Compliance Monitoring
Sec. 7.911. Right Of Entry; Inspection And Sampling.
The pretreatment coordinator and his designee(s), duly authorized agents of the
city, the Illinois environmental protection agency, and the United States
environmental protection agency (hereafter referred to as the "above named
entities"), shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to determine
whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter and any
individual or general wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder.
Users shall allow the above named entities ready access to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
analyses, records examination and copying, and the performance of any
additional duties.
   A.   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the above named entities will be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   B.   The city shall have the right to set up on the user's property or
require installation of such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/
or metering of the user's operations.
   C.   The pretreatment coordinator may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated annually with an option to increase twice yearly (at 6
month intervals) to ensure their accuracy. The user shall submit these
calibration reports semiannually to the city with the periodic compliance
reports required in section
7.483 of this chapter.
   D.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the verbal, followed by the written, request, or at the written request of
the pretreatment coordinator and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing
such access shall be borne by the user.
   E.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the pretreatment coordinator and his or
her designee access to the user's premises shall be a violation of this
article. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.912. Recordkeeping.
   A.   Users: Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter
shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
article and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements,
and documentation associated with best management practices established under
section
7.472 of this chapter. Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and
time of sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates
analyses were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques
or methods used; the date and time of the analyses; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
(3) years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the city, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the pretreatment
coordinator.
   B.   City: The city will maintain documentation of any monitoring waiver
issued per subsection
7.465E of this chapter for a period of three (3) years after the expiration of
the waiver. The documentation will include the reasons supporting the waiver
and any information submitted by the user in its request for the waiver. (Ord.
O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.913. Search Warrants.
If the pretreatment coordinator has been refused access to a building,
structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this article or any
permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety and welfare of the community, then the pretreatment coordinator may seek
issuance of a search warrant from the circuit court of DuPage County. (Ord. O-
15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.92. Availability Of Information
Sec. 7.921. Information Available To Public.
Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual or general wastewater discharge
permits, and monitoring programs, and the pretreatment coordinator inspection
and sampling activities, shall be available to the public in accordance with
procedures and subject to the exemptions of the freedom of information act
("FOIA"), 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/1 et seq. Notwithstanding any
procedures or exemptions of FOIA, however, all such information and data shall
be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies for uses
related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in enforcement
proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Additionally,
wastewater constituents and characteristics and other "effluent data" as
defined by 40 CFR will not be recognized as exempt information under FOIA and
will be available to the public without restriction. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.93. Publication Of Users In Significant Noncompliance
Sec. 7.931. Significant Noncompliance.
The pretreatment coordinator shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction
served by the POTW, a list of the users which, during the previous twelve (12)
months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements. The term "significant noncompliance" shall be
applicable to all significant industrial users and categorical industrial users
(or any other user that violates subsection C, D or H of this section) and
shall mean:
   A.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period exceed (by any
magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement as defined in part
7.44 of this chapter;
   B.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
each pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or exceeds the
product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by part
7.44 of this chapter multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, COD,
TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   C.   Any other discharge violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement
as defined by article IV of this chapter (daily maximum, long term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the pretreatment coordinator
has determined caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass-through, including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public;
   D.   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the pretreatment
coordinator's exercise of his or her emergency authority to halt or prevent
such a discharge;
   E.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) calendar days of the scheduled
date, a compliance schedule milestone contained in an individual or general
wastewater discharge permit or enforcement order for starting construction,
completing construction, or attaining final compliance;
   F.   Failure to provide within forty five (45) calendar days after the due
date, any required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on
compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-
monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   H.   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management practices, that the pretreatment coordinator determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.94. Administrative Enforcement Remedies
Sec. 7.941. Notification Of Violation And Administrative Fines.
   A.   When the pretreatment coordinator finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the pretreatment coordinator may serve upon that user a written
notice of violation. An explanation of the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required
actions, shall be submitted by the user to the pretreatment coordinator by the
city defined deadline, within twenty (20) city business days of issuance
excluding holidays. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation.
   B.   The pretreatment coordinator may initiate a pretreatment review for any
violation issued under subsection
7.481A of this chapter but most likely for the first violation of any
parameter. Upon the issuance of the pretreatment review, the city shall
schedule a pretreatment review meeting, normally within thirty (30) calendar
days of the determination, that a meeting is required.
As a result of a pretreatment review meeting, the city may issue a compliance
directive stating that the user is in a "corrective action" status. A plan for
a correction and compliance schedule illustrating milestones may be issued by
the city to the user. This plan for a correction and compliance schedule may
become part of the user's permit. The user is responsible for meeting the
permit limits at all times. The plan for a correction and compliance schedule
and revised permit do not relieve the user of meeting the permit limits and/or
article requirements. The user shall take whatever actions are necessary to
meet the permit limits and permit conditions.
   C.   As a result of a violation, the city may continue or increase sampling,
analyses and inspection of the user's progress toward meeting milestones as
needed to determine if the user is complying with the conditions of the plan of
action, compliance schedule and/or permit. In the event that the city detects
and documents any violation, an NOV will be issued to the user. The costs of
the additional sampling, analyses, and inspections shall be invoiced to the
user.
   D.   Each detected violation of the plan of action, compliance schedule, and
permit, will result in an NOV being issued to the user. When NOV #3 (total of 3
NOVs) is issued for a specific parameter or for any three (3) reports, the user
may be issued a "nontraffic complaint citation". The citation shall contain an
administrative fine per section 7.961 of this article.
   E.   When the user has met the conditions of the plan of action, compliance
schedule, and permit, the city will notify the user in writing that the
conditions have been satisfied and that the user is no longer under a
"corrective action" status if such a status was formally issued.
   F.   When the user has not received an NOV for three hundred sixty five
(365) days for a specific parameter or reporting violation, the count will be
reset to zero.
   G.   Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the pretreatment
coordinator to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation. (Ord. O-15-
001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.942. Compliance Agreements.
The pretreatment coordinator may enter into compliance agreements, i.e.,
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such
documents will include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the
noncompliance within a time period specified by the document. (Ord. O-15-001,
1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.943. Termination Of Discharge And Emergency Suspensions.
   A.   Violation: Any user who violates the following conditions is subject to
discharge suspension or termination as set forth below:
      1.   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      2.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      3.   Failure to report substantial changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      4.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      5.   Violation of the pretreatment standards in part
7.44 of this chapter.
   B.   Immediate Suspension: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
chapter, for violation of any of the foregoing conditions, the pretreatment
coordinator may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after giving such
notice to the user as is appropriate under the circumstances, whenever
suspension is necessary to stop an actual or an immediately threatened
discharge which reasonably appears to present or would cause an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or damage to
property. The pretreatment coordinator may also immediately suspend a user's
discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere
with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.
      1.   Any user notified of an immediate suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Pretreatment Coordinator may take such steps as deemed necessary, including
immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to
the POTW, its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The
Pretreatment Coordinator may allow the user to recommence its discharge when
the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Pretreatment Coordinator
that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings
in subsections A1 through A5 of this section are initiated against the user.
      2.   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Pretreatment Coordinator prior to the
date of an adjudication proceeding or judicial action for termination under
subsections A1 through A5 of this section.
      3.   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
      4.   If the user is not allowed to recommence its discharge as soon as
reasonably possible after such suspension, upon written notice to the user, the
Pretreatment Coordinator shall institute a pretreatment review for the
violation(s) which are the subject of the suspension. In such pretreatment
review, the Pretreatment Coordinator shall seek to develop with the user a plan
for a correction and compliance schedule as provided for in subsection
7.941B of this article. If the Pretreatment Coordinator is unable to develop
such a plan for a correction and compliance schedule with the user, the
Pretreatment Coordinator shall initiate, as he or she deems appropriate, an
administrative adjudication proceeding or judicial action for termination of
discharge for the violation(s) which are the subject of the suspension.
   C.   Notification; Show Cause: Such user will be notified of the proposed
termination of its discharge in subsections A1 through A5 of this section and
be offered an opportunity to show cause why the proposed action should not be
taken in an administrative adjudication proceeding or judicial action. Exercise
of this option by the Pretreatment Coordinator shall not be a bar to, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-
15-2015)
Part 7.95. Fees And Costs
Sec. 7.951. Failure To Report Or Notify.
   A.   Sewer Extension And Connection Permits: Any entity or user who fails to
file for and obtain a sewer extension or connection permit prior to commencing
construction of said extension or connection required by this chapter may be
subject to late filing fees as specified in the master fee schedule in addition
to extension, connection or annexation fees.
   B.   City Reports Or Notifications: Any entity or user who fails to file any
report or notification so required by this article may be subject to late
filing fees as specified in the master fee schedule.
   C.   Reports Or Notifications Required By Significant Or Categorical
Industrial Users: Any entity or user who fails to file any periodic
(semiannual) pretreatment report, baseline monitoring report, or ninety (90)
day final compliance report required by this article may be subject to late
filing fees as specified in the master fee schedule.
   D.   Ownership Notification Specific To Entities With Wastewater Discharge
Permits: Fines are as specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-
19-2018)
Sec. 7.952. Recovery Of Costs Incurred.
   A.   Any entity or user violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or
who causes damage to or impairs the City's wastewater works shall be liable to
the City for any expense, loss or damage caused by such violation or discharge.
The City may invoice the costs, including, but not limited to, sampling and
analyses associated with the investigation, costs of mitigating impact to the
wastewater treatment works, costs of preparing the administrative enforcement
actions such as notices and orders; investigative and/or correction actions,
and review of response(s) from the user. In the event of damage, losses or
impairments, the City shall bill the user for the costs incurred by the City
for any cleaning, repair, replacement or other investigative and/or corrective
action(s) as a response to the violation or discharge. Refusal to pay the
assessed costs shall constitute a violation of this article enforceable under
the provisions of part
7.94 of this article.
   B.   Recovery of costs incurred also includes, but is not limited to, the
following provisions specific to food service establishments (FSE):
      1.   Grease Disposal Mitigation Fee: FSE that operate without a grease
interceptor (GI) may be required to pay an annual grease disposal mitigation
fee to equitably cover the costs of increased maintenance of the sewer system
as a result of the FSE's inability to adequately remove FOG from its wastewater
discharge. This section shall not be interpreted to allow the new construction
of FSE, or existing FSE undergoing remodeling, to operate without an approved
GI. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
The grease disposal mitigation fee shall be as established in section
7.842 of the master fee schedule and shall be based on the estimated annual
increased cost of maintaining the sewer system for inspection and removal of
FOG and other viscous or solidifying agents attributable to the FSE resulting
from the lack of a grease interceptor or grease interception device. (Ord. O-
15-001, 1-15-2015; amd. Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
      2.   Sewer System Overflows, Public Nuisance, Abatement And Cleanup
Costs: Notwithstanding the waiver of grease interceptor installation for
existing FSE established in article IV of this chapter, FSE found to have
contributed to a sewer blockage, sewer system overflows (SSOs) or any sanitary
sewer system interferences resulting from the discharge of wastewater or waste
containing FOG may be subject to costs incurred by the City as established in
article VIII of this chapter, SSOs may cause threat and injury to public
health, safety, and welfare of life and property and are hereby declared public
nuisances and subject to abatement as provided by City ordinance and other law.
Furthermore, sewer lateral line failures and SSOs caused by FSE, alone or
collectively, are the responsibility of the private property owner or FSE, and
individual(s) as a responsible officer or owner of the FSE. If the City must
act immediately to contain and clean up an SSO caused by blockage of a private
or public sewer lateral or system serving an FSE, or at the request of the
property owner or operator of the FSE, or because of the failure of the
property owner or FSE to abate the condition causing immediate threat of injury
to the health, safety, welfare, or property of the public, the City's costs for
such abatement may be entirely borne by the property owner or operator of the
FSE, and the individual(s) as a responsible officer or owner of the FSE(s) and
may constitute a debt to the City and become due and payable upon the City's
request for reimbursement of such costs.
      3.   Violator Liable To City: Any entity or user violating any of the
provisions of this article, or who causes a deposit, obstruction or damage to
or impairs any portion of the City's POTW shall be liable to the City for any
expense, loss or damage caused by such violation or discharge. The City may
invoice the costs, including, but not limited to, sampling and analyses
associated with the investigation, costs of mitigating impact to the POTW,
costs of preparing the administrative enforcement actions such as notices and
orders; investigative and/or correction actions, and review of response(s) from
the user. In the event of damage, losses or impairments, the City shall bill
the user for the costs incurred by the City including materials, labor and
supervision costs for any cleaning, repair, replacement or other investigative
and/or corrective action(s) as a response to the violation or discharge.
Refusal to pay the assessed costs shall constitute a violation of this article
enforceable under the provisions of part
7.94 of this article. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.96. Fines, Penalties, And Judicial Enforcement Remedies
Sec. 7.961. Administrative Fines.
   A.   When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this article, an individual or general
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Pretreatment Coordinator may fine
such user in an amount not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
Such fines may be assessed on a per violation, per day basis. In the case of
monthly or other long term average discharge limits, fines may be assessed for
each day during the period of violation. Significant violations of interim
limits set forth in a compliance schedule (i.e., slug discharges, chronic
violations, TRC violations) automatically receive the maximum fine. After the
final compliance date set forth in a compliance schedule has been reached, the
maximum fine is issued whenever a significant violation of the final limits set
forth in the discharge permit occurs.
   B.   The administrative fine is attached to a nontraffic complaint citation
with the notice of violation and sent to the Police Department for hand
delivery by a community service officer. The administrative fine may also be
part of an administrative order, compliance schedule or may be instituted as
the next step above an administrative order.
   C.   Users desiring reconsideration of such fines must file a written
request for the Pretreatment Coordinator or Director of Public Works to
reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine amount within thirty
(30) calendar days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit,
the Pretreatment Coordinator or Director of Public Works may convene a hearing
on the matter. In the event the user's appeal is successful, the payment,
together with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user.
   D.   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-
15-2015)
Sec. 7.962. Injunctive Relief.
When the pretreatment coordinator finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
pretreatment coordinator may petition the circuit court of DuPage County
through the city attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent
injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance
of the wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this
article on activities of the user. The pretreatment coordinator may also seek
such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief,
including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A
petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against a user. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.963. Civil Penalties.
   A.   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this
article codified by the city, an individual or general wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement shall be liable to the city for a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
per violation, per day. In the case of a monthly or other long term average
discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each workday during the period of
the violation.
   B.   The pretreatment coordinator may recover costs, including, but not
limited to, filing fees, witness fees, consultant fees, attorney fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the city.
   C.   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take into
account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent
of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the violation,
any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by
the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice
requires.
   D.   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-
2015)
Sec. 7.964. Remedies Nonexclusive.
The remedies provided for in this article are not exclusive. The pretreatment
coordinator may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment standards and requirements will
generally be in accordance with the city's enforcement response plan. However,
the pretreatment coordinator may take other action against any user when the
circumstances warrant. Further, the pretreatment coordinator is empowered to
take more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant user. (Ord. O-
15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.97. Supplemental Enforcement Action
Sec. 7.971. Performance Bonds.
The director of public works may decline to issue or reissue an individual or
general wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with
any provision of this article, a previous individual or general wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, unless such user first files a satisfactory bond, payable to
the city, in a sum not to exceed a value determined by the director of public
works to be necessary to achieve consistent compliance. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-
2015)
Sec. 7.972. Liability Insurance.
The director of public works may decline to issue or reissue an individual or
general wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with
any provision of this article, a previous individual or general wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, unless the user first submits proof that it has obtained
financial assurances sufficient to restore or repair damage to the POTW caused
by its discharge. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.973. Payment For Outstanding Fees And Penalties.
The director of public works may decline to issue or reissue an individual or
general wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to pay any
outstanding fees, fines or penalties incurred as a result of any provision of
this article, a previous individual or general wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.974. Water Supply Severance.
Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
article, an individual or general wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any pretreatment standard or requirement, water service to the
user may be severed. Service will recommence, at the user's expense, only after
the user has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply and paid
outstanding costs, fees, and penalties. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.975. Public Nuisances.
A violation of any provision of this article, an individual or general
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement is hereby declared a public nuisance and
shall be corrected or abated as directed by the director of public works. Any
person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions
governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the city for any costs incurred
in removing, abating, or remedying said nuisance. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.976. Contractor Listing.
Users which have not achieved compliance with applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements are hereby declared to be nonresponsible users and therefore
are not eligible to receive a contractual award for the sale of goods or
services to the city. Existing contracts for the sale of goods or services to
the city held by a user found to be in significant noncompliance with
pretreatment standards or requirements may be terminated at the discretion of
the director of public works. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.98. Miscellaneous Fees
Sec. 7.981. Pretreatment Program Funding.
It is the intent of the city to pass all general costs of the pretreatment
program to all nonresidential users and the costs of the FSE program to all FSE
users. The fees which shall apply to those users subject to the pretreatment or
FSE programs are based on water usage.
   A.   The charges that shall apply to those users subject to the pretreatment
program are based on classification and are established in article VIII, "Fees
And Charges", of this chapter.
   B.   Billing shall be based on the billing cycle for water and sewer and
shall be added onto the water and sewer bill. The rates or charges for
pretreatment service shall be payable monthly. The owner of the premises, the
occupant thereof, and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally
liable to pay for the service to such premises, and the service is furnished to
the premises by the city only upon the condition that the owner of the
premises, occupant and user of the service shall be jointly and severally
liable therefor to the city. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.982. Pretreatment Charges And Fees.
The city may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and
operating the city's pretreatment program unique to a specific user found in
article VIII of this chapter which may include:
   A.   Categorical pretreatment standard determination, establishment and
documentation for wastewater discharge permit;
   B.   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   C.   Fees for establishing and reviewing best management practices plans and
requirements;
   D.   Fees for reviewing plans or construction relating to spill prevention/
slug load plans as defined in section
7.455 of this chapter or closure plans per section
7.456 of this chapter;
   E.   Fees for reviewing FSE waivers per subsection
7.427B or
7.453F of this chapter;
   F.   Fees for responding to report of potential problems as defined in
section
7.487 of this chapter;
   G.   Fees for filing appeals;
   H.   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs (not included in part
7.97 of this article) associated with the enforcement activity taken by the
pretreatment coordinator to address user noncompliance; and
   I.   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the requirements
contained herein.
These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this article and this
chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties chargeable
by the city. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.983. Additional Remedies.
   A.   In addition to remedies available to the city set forth elsewhere in
this article, if the POTW is fined by the state or USEPA for violation of the
POTW NPDES permit or violation of water quality standards as the result of
discharge of pollutants by a user or group of users, then the fine, including
all legal, sampling, analytical testing costs and any other related costs
incurred by the city shall be charges to the responsible user or group of
users. Such charges shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other
remedies the city may have under this article, statutes, regulations, at law or
in equity.
   B.   If the discharge from any nonresidential user causes a deposit,
obstruction or damage to any portion of the POTW, the POTW shall cause the
deposit or obstruction to be promptly removed or cause the damage to be
promptly repaired. The cost for such work, including evaluation, materials,
labor and supervision, shall be borne by the person or nonresidential user
causing such deposit, obstruction, or damage. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Part 7.99. Miscellaneous Provisions
Sec. 7.991. Severability.
If any provision of this article is invalidated by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall not be affected and shall continue
in full force and effect. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.992. Conflict.
All other articles and parts of other articles inconsistent or conflicting with
any part of this article are hereby repealed to the extent of such
inconsistency or conflict. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.993. Offenses Under Previous Articles.
This article shall not be construed or held to repeal a former article, whether
such former article is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense committed
against such former article or as to any act done, any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising under the former
article, or in any way whatever to affect such offense or act so committed or
so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred or any right
accrued or claim arising before the new article takes effect, save only that
proceedings thereafter shall conform to the article in force at the time of
such proceeding, so far as practicable. Nothing contained in this article shall
be construed as abating any action now pending. (Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
ARTICLE X
ELECTRICITY AGGREGATION PROGRAM 1
SECTION:
7.1001. Definitions
7.1002. Aggregation Of Electrical Load
7.1003. Opt Out Program
7.1004. Adoption Of Plan Of Operation And Governance
7.1005. Solicitation Of Bids
 
Notes
1 1. Ordinance O-14-016 passed June 5, 2014, authorized the renewal of this
  program.
Sec. 7.1001. Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
ACT: The Illinois power agency act, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3855/1-92, as
may be amended from time to time.
CUSTOMER: Recipients of residential and small commercial retail electric loads
as provided in the act.
ELECTRICITY AGGREGATION PROGRAM: A program pursuant to the act for the
aggregation of residential and small commercial retail electric loads located
within the corporate limits of the city of Wood Dale that provides customers
with the opportunity to opt out of participating in that program as provided in
the act. (Ord. O-11-009, 6-2-2011; amd. Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.1002. Aggregation Of Electrical Load.
   A.   The corporate authorities of the city of Wood Dale are authorized to
operate an electricity aggregation program pursuant to the act and for that
purpose may solicit bids and enter into service agreements to facilitate the
sale and purchase of electricity and related services and equipment for those
loads aggregated pursuant to the electricity aggregation program as provided in
the act.
   B.   The corporate authorities of the city of Wood Dale may exercise the
authority to operate the electricity aggregation program jointly with any other
municipality or county and, in combination with two (2) or more municipalities
or counties, may initiate a process to jointly authorize the electricity
aggregation program by a majority vote of each particular municipality or
county as required by the act. (Ord. O-11-009, 6-2-2011; amd. Ord. O-15-001, 1-
15-2015)
Sec. 7.1003. Opt Out Program.
   A.   The electricity aggregation program shall operate as an opt out program
whereby customers who do not wish to participate in the electricity aggregation
program may opt out pursuant to the act.
   B.   The city manager or his designee, on behalf of the city of Wood Dale,
shall fully inform customers in advance, as provided in the act, that customers
have the right to opt out of the electricity aggregation program. The
disclosure provided to the customers shall comply with the requirements of the
act and shall prominently state all charges to be made and shall include full
disclosure of the cost to obtain service pursuant to section 16-103 of the
public utilities act, how to access service, and the fact that service under
section 16-103 of the public utilities act is available to customers without
penalty if they are currently receiving service under section 16-103 of the
public utilities act.
   C.   Upon notification from any customer that the customer wishes to opt out
of the electricity aggregation program, that customer shall be excluded from
the electricity aggregation program.
   D.   Except for those customers who opt out of the electricity aggregation
program pursuant to this section and the act, the electricity aggregation
program shall automatically apply for each person owning, occupying,
controlling, or using an electrical load center proposed to be aggregated in
the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. O-11-009, 6-2-2011; amd. Ord. O-15-001,
1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.1004. Adoption Of Plan Of Operation And Governance.
   A.   The corporate authorities of the city of Wood Dale, with the assistance
from the Illinois power agency as required pursuant to the act, shall develop
and approve a plan of operation and governance for the electricity aggregation
program.
   B.   Before adopting the plan of operation required under subsection A of
this section and the act, the corporate authorities shall hold at least two (2)
public hearings on the proposed plan. Before the first public hearing, the
corporate authorities shall publish notice of the hearings once a week for two
(2) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the city of Wood
Dale. The notice shall summarize the plan of operation and state the date,
time, and location of each hearing.
   C.   The plan of operation and governance for the electricity aggregation
program shall:
      1.   Provide for universal access to all applicable residential customers
and equitable treatment of applicable residential customers,
      2.   Describe demand management and energy efficiency services to be
provided to each class of customers, and
      3.   Meet any requirements established by law concerning aggregated
service offered pursuant to the act. (Ord. O-11-009, 6-2-2011; amd. Ord. O-15-
001, 1-15-2015)
Sec. 7.1005. Solicitation Of Bids.
The process for soliciting bids for electricity and other related services and
awarding proposed agreements for the purchase of electricity and other related
services for the electricity aggregation program shall be conducted pursuant to
the act. (Ord. O-11-009, 6-2-2011; amd. Ord. O-15-001, 1-15-2015)
CHAPTER 8
TAXES
ARTICLE I
GENERAL TAXATION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8.101. Tax Levies
8.101.Tax Levies.
The procedure set forth in this Section shall govern all tax levy procedures.
   A.   Annual Tax Levy Ordinance: On or before the second Tuesday in December
in each year, the Mayor and Council shall ascertain the total amount of
appropriations legally budgeted for and any amount deemed necessary to defray
additional expenses and liabilities for all City purposes to be provided for by
the tax levy of that year. Then, by an ordinance specifying in detail in the
manner authorized for the annual budget, the purposes for which the budgeting
or such additional amounts deemed necessary have been made and the amount
assignable for each purpose respectively, the City shall levy upon all property
subject to taxation as that property is assessed and equalized for State and
County purposes for the current year. A certified copy of that ordinance shall
be filed with the County Clerk.
   B.   Rate of Tax: The aggregate amount of taxes so levied for any one year,
exclusive of the amount levied for the payment of bonded indebtedness or
interest thereon, and exclusive of taxes levied pursuant to 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-3-1, and exclusive of taxes authorized by law which by
their terms provide that they shall be in addition to taxes of general purposes
authorized under this Section, shall not exceed the rate of twenty five percent
(25%), or the rate limit in effect on July 1, 1967, whichever is greater, and
on a permanent basis, upon the aggregate valuation of all property subject to
taxation as the property is equalized or assessed by the Department of Local
Government Affairs for the current year. However, if the maximum rate for
general corporate purposes was less than twenty percent (20%) on July 1, 1967,
the Mayor and Council may, without the referendum required by law, increase
such maximum rate to not to exceed twenty five percent (25%); provided, that
such maximum rate shall not be raised by more than one-half (1/2) of such
increase in any one year.
   C.   Excess Funds into Capital Improvement Fund: Any funds on hand at the
end of the fiscal year which are not pledged for or allocated to a particular
purpose, may, by action of the Mayor and Council, be transferred to the Capital
Improvement Fund and there accumulated, but the total accumulated in such Fund
may not exceed three percent (3%) of the aggregate assessed valuation of all
taxable property. (1976 Code §2-194; 1993 Code)
ARTICLE II
MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
8.201. Tax Imposed
8.202. Report Required
8.203. Payment Of Tax
Sec. 8.201. Tax Imposed.
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in this city at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business. (1976 Code §28-16; amd. Ord. O-06-075, 12-7-2006)
   B.   Pursuant to section 8-11-1.3 of the Illinois municipal code, there is
hereby imposed a tax of one percent (1%) upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property on the gross receipts from such
sales made in the course of business, other than items of tangible personal
property titled and registered by an agency of the state of Illinois, at retail
within the city of Wood Dale, for expenditure on property tax relief as defined
in section 8-11-1.2 of the Illinois municipal code, except on the sale of food
for human consumption that is to be consumed off of the premises where it is
sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and food that has been
prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances, and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes, and needles used by diabetics, said tax together with all civil
penalties incident thereto to be collected, administered, and enforced
beginning July 1, 2007, by the state of Illinois, department of revenue as
provided by law. (Ord. O-06-075, 12-7-2006)
Sec. 8.202. Report Required.
Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file on or before
the last day of each calendar month the report to the state department of
revenue required by 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/3. (1976 Code §28-17)
Sec. 8.203. Payment Of Tax.
At the time the required report is filed, there shall be paid to the state
department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(1976 Code §28-18)
ARTICLE III
MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
8.301. Tax Imposed
8.302. Report Required
8.303. Payment Of Tax
Sec. 8.301. Tax Imposed.
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this city in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of the cost
price of all tangible personal property transferred by said servicemen either
in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service. (1976 Code §28-31; amd. Ord. O-06-075, 12-7-
2006)
   B.   Pursuant to section 8-11-1.4 of the Illinois municipal code, there is
hereby imposed a tax of one percent (1%) for expenditure on property tax relief
as defined in section 8-11-1.2 of the Illinois municipal code upon all persons
engaged within the city of Wood Dale in the business of making sales of service
on the selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by such
persons either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real
estate incident to a sale of service, except on the sale of food for human
consumption that is to be consumed off of the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances, and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes, and needles
used by diabetics, said tax together with all civil penalties incident thereto
to be collected, administered and enforced beginning July 1, 2007, by the state
of Illinois, department of revenue as provided by law. (Ord. O-06-075, 12-7-
2006)
Sec. 8.302. Report Required.
Every supplier or serviceman required to pay the service occupation tax shall
file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 115/9. (1976
Code §28-32)
Sec. 8.303. Payment Of Tax.
At the time the required report is filed, there shall be paid to the state
department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (1976 Code §28-33)
ARTICLE IV
MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
8.401. Definitions
8.402. Tax Imposed Upon Supplying Natural Gas
8.403. Tax Imposed Upon Supplying Electricity
8.404. Purpose; Interpretation And Application
8.405. Tax Returns
8.406. Resales Of Electricity
8.407. Overpayment Of Tax
8.408. Action To Recover Tax
8.409. Effective Date Of Tax
8.410. Penalty
8.411. Unconstitutionality
Sec. 8.401. Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, whenever the following words and phrases are
used, they shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this
section:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or electricity for use or consumption, and not for
resale, as the case may be, and for all services rendered in connection
therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services and/or property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered therewith, and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of
materials used, labor or service cost or any other expenses whatsoever.
"Gross receipts" shall not be meant to include receipts received from the City
for the sale to this Municipality of any of the utility products or services
mentioned above.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, municipal corporation or
political subdivision of this State, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court. (Ord. 1935, 8-13-1998,
eff. 9-1-1998)
Sec. 8.402. Tax Imposed Upon Supplying Natural Gas.
   A.   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges: persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the City, and not for resale, at a rate as specified in the master fee
schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   B.   No tax is imposed by this section with respect to the extent to which
such business, under the section and statutes of the United States of America,
may not be made subject to taxation by the State, the City or any other
political subdivision of the State; nor shall any person engaged in the
business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling be subject to
taxation under the provisions of this article for such transactions as are or
may become subject to taxation under the provisions of the "Municipal
Retailers' Occupation Tax Act", authorized under the terms of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1. (Ord. 1935, 8-13-1998, eff. 9-1-1998)
Sec. 8.403. Tax Imposed Upon Supplying Electricity.
   A.   Effective September 1, 1998, a tax is imposed on all persons engaged in
the following occupations or privileges: the privilege of using or consuming
electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the
corporate limits of the City at rates as specified in the master fee schedule
calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser.
The tax rates set forth in the master fee schedule will be used at least
through December 31, 2008, and are proportional to the rates enumerated in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2 1 , and do not exceed the revenue that
could have been collected during 1997 using the rates enumerated in 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2.
For nonresidential customers, at the rate as specified in the master fee
schedule, until the earlier to of: 1) the last bill issued prior to December
31, 2000, or 2) the date of the first bill issued pursuant to 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/16-104, for nonresidential customers. After which time the
rates set forth in the master fee schedule shall apply to such nonresidential
customers. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   B.   None of the taxes authorized by this section may be imposed with
respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to
which the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and Statutes of
the United States, be made the subject of taxation by this State or any
political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting gas, water, or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this article for those transactions that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the "Municipal Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act" authorized by section 8-11-1 of the Illinois Municipal
Code; nor shall any tax authorized by this article be imposed upon any person
engaged in a business or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like
manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same
class in the Municipality, whether privately or Municipally owned or operated,
or exercising the same privilege within the Municipality.
   C.   The tax authorized by this article shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this State who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
section and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the City by such person delivering the electricity,
provided that the person delivering electricity shall be allowed a credit for
such tax related to deliveries of electricity the charges for which are written
off as uncollectible, and provided further, that if such charges are thereafter
collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit such tax.
Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by
adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an
amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the City upon request. If the person delivering electricity fails to collect
the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax
directly to the Municipality in the manner prescribed by the City. Persons
delivering electricity who file returns pursuant to this subsection shall, at
the time of filing such return, pay the City the amount of the tax collected
pursuant to this article. (Ord. 1935, 8-13-1998, eff. 9-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. Public Act 90-561.
Sec. 8.404. Purpose; Interpretation And Application.
   A.   Purpose: The City has immediate need for the revenue to be produced by
the tax imposed by this article in order to meet the cost of providing services
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health and
safety, and therefore, this section is passed as an urgent measure.
   B.   Tax Additional: Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied
upon the taxpayer or its business. (Ord. 1935, 8-13-1998, eff. 9-1-1998)
Sec. 8.405. Tax Returns.
   A.   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the City Treasurer for the preceding month stating:
      1.   His name;
      2.   His principal place of business;
      3.   His gross receipts during that month upon the basis of which tax is
imposed;
      4.   Amount of tax;
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the Director of
Finance may require.
   B.   On or before the last day of every month after October 1982, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the City Treasurer for the preceding
month.
   C.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the Director of Finance the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he
so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of late payments based
upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
(Ord. 1935, 8-13-1998, eff. 9-1-1998)
Sec. 8.406. Resales Of Electricity.
   A.   Electricity that is delivered to a person in the City shall be
considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the person
receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the Director of
Finance and furnishes that number to the person who delivers the electricity,
and certifies to that person that the sale is either entirely or partially
nontaxable as a sale for resale.
   B.   If a person who receives electricity in the City claims to be an
authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the Director of
Finance for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing why it is
not liable for the tax imposed by this article on any purchases of electricity
and shall furnish such additional information as the Director of Finance may
reasonably require.
   C.   Upon approval of the application, the Director of Finance shall assign
a resale number to the applicant and shall certify the number to the applicant.
   D.   The Director of Finance may cancel the resale number of any person if
the person fails to pay any tax payable under this article for electricity used
or consumed by the person, or if the number: 1) was obtained through
misrepresentation; or 2) is no longer necessary because the person has
discontinued making resales.
   E.   If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or consumption
and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by this article
directly to the Director of Finance pursuant to this article on the amount of
electricity that the reseller uses or consumes, and shall collect the tax
pursuant to this article and remit the tax pursuant to this article on the
amount of electricity delivered by the reseller to a purchaser.
   F.   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an active
resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section shall be
excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the electricity
delivered to the reseller, provided that the person reports to Director of
Finance the total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller, and such
other information that the Director of Finance may reasonably require. (Ord.
1935, 8-13-1998, eff. 9-1-1998)
Sec. 8.407. Overpayment Of Tax.
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this article, whether as a result of a mistake of fact or an
error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under such article from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) months
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord. 1935, 8-13-
1998, eff. 9-1-1998)
Sec. 8.408. Action To Recover Tax.
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this article
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 1935, 8-13-1998, eff. 9-1-1998)
Sec. 8.409. Effective Date Of Tax.
The tax provided for in this article shall be based on the gross receipts, as
herein defined, actually paid to the taxpayer with respect to bills rendered on
and after June 1, 1985. (Ord. 1935, 8-13-1998, eff. 9-1-1998)
Sec. 8.410. Penalty.
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return or who makes a fraudulent return or who
wilfully violates any other provision of this article is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction therefor, shall be fined as specified in the
master fee schedule. (Ord. 1935, 8-13-1998, eff. 9-1-1998; amd. Ord. O-18-023,
7-19-2018)
Sec. 8.411. Unconstitutionality.
That if any part or parts of this article shall be held to be unconstitutional,
such unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity of the remaining parts
of this article. The City Council declares hereby that they would have passed
the remaining parts of this article if they had known that such part or parts
thereof would be declared unconstitutional. (Ord. 1935, 8-13-1998, eff. 9-1-
1998)
ARTICLE V
MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING TAX
SECTION:
8.501. Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
8.502. Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
Sec. 8.501. Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax.
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting automobiles in the City at the rate as specified in the
master fee schedule from such rentals made in the course of such business while
this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-7. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the City
shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month the report to the
State Department of Revenue required by sections two and three of "An Act in
Relation to a Tax Upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible
Personal Property to Purchasers for Use or Consumption", approved June 28,
1933, as amended 1 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (Ord. 1176, 2-18-
1982)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-7.
Sec. 8.502. Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax.
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in the
City an automobile which is rented from a rentor outside Illinois and which is
titled or registered with an agency of this State's government in the City at
the rate as specified in the master fee schedule of such automobile while this
section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-8. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   B.   Application of Provisions: The tax provided for in this section shall
be collected from the persons whose Illinois address for titling or
registration purposes is given as being in the City.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the
Illinois Department of Revenue. (Ord. 1177, 2-18-1982)
ARTICLE VI
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
8.601. Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
Sec. 8.601. Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax.
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed, in accordance with the Municipal
Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax Law (65 ILCS 5/8-11-23), upon all persons
engaged in the business of selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased
under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, at retail in the
corporate limits of the City at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from these
sales made in the course of that business.
   B.   Collection and Enforcement: The tax imposed by this Article, and all
civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected
and enforced by the Illinois Department of Revenue. The Illinois Department of
Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this
article. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to or as authorized by this
article and any such tax collected by such retailer and required to be remitted
to the Illinois Department of Revenue shall constitute a debt owed by the
retailer to the State of Illinois. Retailers may reimburse themselves for their
seller’s tax liability hereunder by separately stating that tax as an
additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in a single
amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect, as provided in
65 ILCS 5/8-11-23. (Ord. O-24-003, 2-15-2024)
ARTICLE VII
HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS TAX
SECTION:
8.701. Definitions; Rules Of Word Construction
8.702. Hotel Use Tax Imposed
8.703. Responsibility For Tax; Duty To Collect
8.704. Transmittal Of Tax Revenue
8.705. Books And Records
8.706. Suspension Or Revocation Of License
8.707. Disposition Of Proceeds
8.708. Penalties
8.709. Other Actions Authorized
Sec. 8.701. Definitions; Rules Of Word Construction.
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this article, whenever any of the
following words, terms or definitions are used herein, they shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
CITY:                  The City of Wood Dale, DuPage County, Illinois.
CITY COLLECTOR:        The City Collector of the City or their designee.
                       A structure kept, used or maintained as or advertised or
                       held out to the public to be an inn, motel, hotel,
                       apartment, home, lodging house, dormitory or place where
                       sleeping, rooming, office, conference or exhibition
HOTEL:                 accommodations are furnished for lease or rent, whether
                       with or without meals, in which ten (10) or more such
                       accommodations are used or maintained for guests,
                       lodgers or roomers. A "hotel" does not include an
                       accommodation which a person occupies, or has the right
                       to occupy, as his domicile and permanent residence.
                       Any person having a sufficient proprietary interest in
                       conducting the operation of a Hotel, or receiving the
LESSOR:                consideration for the rental of all or part of such
                       Hotel, so as to entitle such person to all or a portion
                       of the net receipts thereof, including Facilitators, as
                       defined herein.
                       Any person or entity who provides a means through which
                       a person may book a Hotel room to Lessees, regardless of
FACILITATOR:           whether payment is transferred through or processed by
                       such Facilitator. Facilitators are considered Lessors,
                       as used herein. Online Travel Companies are considered
                       Facilitators, as used herein.
                       An organization that books, reserves, or rents hotel or
                       motel rooms and makes other travel arrangements for
ONLINE TRAVEL COMPANY: consumers via the World Wide Web, internet or other
                       digital means. Online Travel Companies are considered
                       Facilitators, as used herein.
LESSEE:                Any person who pays for the privilege of occupying all
                       or part of a Hotel.
                       The total amount of consideration for occupancy, valued
                       in money, whether received in money or otherwise,
                       including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or
                       services of any kind or nature, including but not
                       limited to, amounts charged for the making, booking,
                       facilitating or servicing of reservations. Gross rent
                       means both (a) the "net rate" paid to the hotel or motel
                       by a Facilitator for room occupancy by the consumer; and
GROSS RENT:            (b) the amount retained by the Facilitator for travel-
                       related services provided to the consumer (sometimes
                       referred to as a "facilitation fee"), and any additional
                       amounts retained by the Facilitator as compensation for
                       its services to the consumer for the individual
                       transaction, or, in the instance of a consumer's direct
                       rental of a room with the hotel or motel, gross rent
                       shall mean the amount charged by the hotel or motel
                       directly to the consumer for the occupancy of the room.
                       Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor,
                       conservator, assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust,
                       estate, firm, co-partnership, joint venture, club,
                       company, business trust, domestic or foreign
                       corporation, association, syndicate, society or any
                       group of individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual,
PERSON:                cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit, or otherwise,
                       whenever the term "Person" is used in any clause
                       prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term as applied
                       to associations shall mean the owners or part-owners
                       thereof, and as applied to corporations, the offices
                       thereof, or any other entity recognized by law as the
                       subject of rights and duties.
                       Any person who has occupied or has the right to occupy
PERMANENT RESIDENT:    all or part of a Hotel for more than (30) consecutive
                       days.
 
   B.   Rules Of Construction: In this article, unless the text otherwise
requires, words in the singular number include the plural and words in the
plural include the singular; words of the masculine gender include the feminine
and neuter; and when the sense so indicates, words in the neuter gender may
refer to any gender. (Ord. 1365, 8-7-1986; amd. Ord. O-20-026, 10-1-2020)
Sec. 8.702. Hotel Use Tax Imposed.
   A.   There is levied and imposed a tax at the rate specified in the master
fee schedule, of the Gross Rent charged for the privilege and use of renting a
Hotel room within the City of Wood Dale for each twenty-four (24) hour period
or any portion thereof for which a room charge is made.
   B.   Accommodations within said buildings or structures which are leased to
the same occupant for a period of more than thirty (30) consecutive days shall
be exempt from the tax provisions of this Article.
   C.   Lessors renting or leasing Hotel rooms within the City are required to
collect the Hotel Use Tax; however, the ultimate incidence of any liability for
payment of the tax is to be borne by the Lessee.
   D.   The Hotel Use Tax shall be paid in addition to any and all other taxes
and charges.
   E.   It shall be the duty of every Lessor of every Hotel within the City to
separately state such tax at the rate specified in the master fee schedule upon
the total amount of compensation charged for the use of the Hotel. The Lessor
shall also state separately the amount of tax on the invoice for the
transaction that will be tendered to the Lessee.
   F.   It shall be the duty of every Lessor of every Hotel within the City to
collect the tax from the Lessee at the time the Lessee pays for the privilege
of occupying all or part of a Hotel Transient Occupancy Rental Unit, and to
remit to the City the tax under procedures provided for in this chapter or
otherwise prescribed by the City. If more than one Person is the Lessor as
related to a particular transaction, the Lessors are jointly and severally
responsible for collecting and remitting the tax.
   G.   It shall not be a defense to this ordinance that the Lessor is not
licensed by the City to rent Hotels and the Lessor will still be required to
remit the proper tax to the City. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018; amd. Ord. O-20-
026, 10-1-2020)
Sec. 8.703. Responsibility For Tax; Duty To Collect.
   A.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax shall
be borne by the lessee or tenant of any such hotel accommodations. The tax
herein levied shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.
   B.   The tax herein levied shall be secured by the hotel owner, manager or
operator from the lessee or tenant when collecting the price, charge or rent to
which it applies. Every lessee or tenant shall be given a bill, invoice,
receipt or other statement or memorandum of the price, charge or rent payable
upon which the Hotel Accommodations Tax shall be stated, charged and shown
separately. The Hotel Accommodations Tax shall be paid to the City Collector as
trustee thereof for and on behalf of the City. It shall be unlawful and is
declared hereby to be a misdemeanor for any owner, manager or operator of hotel
accommodations to fail to cause said tax to be secured from the lessee or
tenant of said hotel accommodations and cause said tax to be paid over to the
City Collector under rules and regulations prescribed by the City Collector and
as otherwise provided by this article.
   C.   Rules and Regulations. The Treasurer may promulgate rules and
regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter concerning
enforcement and application of this chapter. The phrase "rules and regulations"
includes, but is not limited to, case-by-case determination of whether or not
the tax imposed by this chapter applies. (Ord. 1365, 8-7-1986; amd. Ord. O-20-
026, 10-1-2020)
Sec. 8.704. Transmittal Of Tax Revenue.
   A.   The Lessor of each Hotel within the City shall file returns and remit
collected taxes, to the City Collector showing tax receipts received with
respect to each Hotel during each monthly period commencing on the last day of
the month, and continuing on the first day of every month thereafter on forms
prescribed by the City. The return shall be due on or before the last day of
the calendar month succeeding the end of the monthly filing period. Each Lessor
shall file an application with the Finance Director for a City Taxpayer
Identification Number prior to filing its first tax return.
   B.   The first taxing period for the purpose of this chapter shall commence
on November 1st, 2020; and the tax return and payment for such period shall be
due on or before November 30th, 2020. Thereafter, reporting periods and tax
payments shall be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. At the
time of filing such tax returns, the owner shall pay to the City Collector all
taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies. (Ord. 1365, 8-7-1986;
amd. Ord. O-20-026, 10-1-2020)
Sec. 8.705. Books And Records.
Every owner, manager or operator of hotel accommodations in the City shall keep
books and records showing the prices, rents or charges made or charged, and
occupancies taxable under this article. The City Collector, or his designee,
shall at all reasonable times have full access to said books and records. (Ord.
1365, 8-7-1986)
Sec. 8.706. Suspension Or Revocation Of License.
If the Mayor, after hearing held by or for him, shall find that any person has
wilfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by this article, he may suspend or
revoke all City licenses held by said tax evader. The owner, manager or
operator of the hotel accommodations shall have an opportunity to be heard at
such hearing to be held not less than three (3) days after notice of the time
and place of the hearing has been sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to such owner, manager and/or operator of such hotel accommodations
at its last known place of business. The suspension or revocation of any
license shall not release or discharge the owner, manager or operator of hotel
accommodations from his civil liability for the payment of the tax nor from
prosecution for such offense. (Ord. 1365, 8-7-1986)
Sec. 8.707. Disposition Of Proceeds.
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the Hotel Accommodations Tax,
including penalties, shall be paid into the Treasury of the City and shall be
credited to and deposited in the General Corporate Fund of the City. (Ord.
1365, 8-7-1986)
Sec. 8.708. Penalties.
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this article, except when otherwise specifically provided, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine as specified in the master fee
schedule; provided, however, that all actions seeking the imposition of fines
only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions of the
Illinois Civil Practice Act. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 8.709. Other Actions Authorized.
The officers, employees and/or agents of the City of Wood Dale shall take all
action necessary or reasonably required to carry out, give effect to and
consummate the amendments contemplated by this ordinance and shall take all
action necessary in conformity therewith. The officers, employees and/or agents
of the City are specifically authorized and directed to draft and disseminate
any and all necessary forms to be utilized in connection with these amendments.
Any and all actions previously performed by officials, employees and/or agents
of the City in connection with carrying out and consummating the intent of this
ordinance are hereby authorized, approved and ratified by this reference. (Ord.
O-20-026, 10-1-2020)
ARTICLE VIII
VEHICLE LICENSES
SECTION:
8.801. License Required
8.802. Application; Issuance
8.803. Fees
8.804. License Plate Or Sticker
8.805. Honorary License
8.806. Disposition Of Revenue
8.807. Penalty
Sec. 8.801. License Required.
Except as otherwise provided, no owner or operator of a motor vehicle who
resides within the City shall use an unlicensed motor vehicle or motor bicycle
on any public street or highway within the City. For the purposes of this
article, corporations or other entities doing business within the City shall be
considered to reside within the City. (Ord. O-16-034, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 8.802. Application; Issuance.
An application for a motor vehicle license shall be made to the City Clerk upon
a form provided by the City Clerk setting forth the name and address of the
applicant and a description of the motor vehicle for which the license is
desired. Upon the payment by the applicant of the prescribed fee, the City
Clerk shall issue a license which shall be attached to the motor vehicle. (Ord.
O-16-034, 11-17-2016)
Sec. 8.803. Fees.
   A.   Established; Discounts: The fee for a twelve (12) month motor vehicle
license shall be as indicated below. Such fee shall be due and payable on July
1 of each year. If an application for a motor vehicle license, received on or
after May 1 but before July 1 of any year, is for a motor vehicle acquired or
change of residency occurring within that period or for a motor vehicle
acquired or change of residency occurring within thirty (30) days of receipt of
such application, issuance of a motor vehicle license for the current twelve
(12) month period shall be waived and the applicant instead be issued a license
for the next twelve (12) month period. The discounted fee as specified in the
master fee schedule shall be charged to applicants who pay the required fee
before July 1 of any given year or who have purchased vehicles after July 1 of
any given year and have made application for a motor vehicle license within
thirty (30) days after such purchase, or who apply for a motor vehicle license
within thirty (30) days after obtaining residence within the City.
   B.   Transfer Of License: A fee shall be charged for the transfer of a
license from one motor vehicle to another as specified in the master fee
schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 8.804. License Plate Or Sticker.
   A.   Generally: Each and every motor vehicle that is registered in the City
of Wood Dale is required to have a valid and current City sticker or license
plate tag of such design and material that is approved by the Mayor and
Council. The life of the City sticker is July 1 to June 30 and must be applied
for, purchased, and properly displayed every year.
      1.   Automobiles And Trucks: Each registered automobile and truck must
have a City vehicle sticker that is to be fastened in the lower right hand
corner of the front windshield at all times it is operated.
      2.   Motorcycles: Each registered motorcycle must have a City license
plate tag that is to be affixed to the rear license plate frame. (Ord. O-11-
005, 4-21-2011)
   B.   Motor Vehicle Dealers: The license plate or sticker issued to a dealer
in motor vehicles held for sale and used only for demonstration vehicles may be
transferred to any other vehicle so held and used by the same dealer; provided,
such dealer shall procure one license for each motor vehicle so held by him at
any one time during the year and for which he has been issued dealer's
registration license plates by the State. (Ord. 1311, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 8.805. Honorary License.
   A.   There shall be a special class vehicle license known as an "honorary
license", which is defined as a two (2) year no fee vehicle license. The
following individuals are eligible for an honorary license:
      1.   Physically Handicapped Persons: Physically handicapped persons must
have a handicapped license plate on their vehicle to qualify for the discount.
Proof of eligibility shall be submitted prior to issuance of an honorary
license. There shall be not more than one such honorary license per household.
      2.   Active Or Retired Military Service Members: An active or retired
member of any of the five (5) branches of the United States armed forces shall
be eligible to obtain an honorary vehicle license upon proof of active duty or
retired service in the United States armed forces. Proof of active duty or
retired service may include, but is not limited to, a military identification
card. An active duty or retired member of the United States armed forces is
entitled to a maximum of one honorary license. A household with two (2) or more
active duty or retired members of the United States armed forces may be
entitled to honorary licenses equal to the number of active duty or retired
members of the United States armed forces in the household. An active duty
service member who is deployed may show proof of his or her status in the
United States armed forces upon his or her return, and the City Collector shall
refund the service member the regular license fee for that year. (Ord. O-16-
015, 4-21-2016)
      3.   Senior Citizen: Every owner or operator of a motor vehicle who at
the time of application is a resident of sixty five (65) years of age or older
or is a widow currently deriving social security benefits shall be considered a
senior citizen for the purposes of this section and shall be entitled to
receive the limit of one such honorary vehicle license for senior citizens per
household. A motor vehicle with an antique license plate shall not be
considered a "motor vehicle" and shall not be counted for purposes of
determining a senior citizen's eligibility for an honorary license. Each
license issued after the limit of one honorary license, with the exception of
motor vehicles with antique license plates, will be subject to the fees and
terms set forth in section 8.803 of the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-16-015, 4-
21-2016; amd. Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 8.806. Disposition Of Revenue.
All revenue derived from motor vehicle license fees, shall be used only for
paying the costs of issuing the license and collecting the fees, or improving,
paving, repairing or maintaining streets and other public roadways; except that
an amount not to exceed thirty five percent (35%) of such fees may be used for
payment of salaries and wages of policemen engaged in the duty of regulating
traffic. (Ord. O-06-076, 12-21-2006)
Sec. 8.807. Penalty.
Any person who shall be convicted of violating any provision of this article
shall be fined an amount as specified in the master fee schedule for each
offense. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE IX
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
8.901. Tax Imposed
8.902. Effective Date
Sec. 8.901. Tax Imposed.
   A.   A simplified municipal telecommunications tax is hereby imposed upon
the act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in the
municipality intrastate or interstate telecommunications by a person under the
provisions of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax act, PA 92-0526,
at a rate of six percent (6%) of the gross charges for such telecommunications
purchased at retail from a retailer.
   B.   The tax hereby imposed shall be collected and enforced by the
department of revenue of the state of Illinois. The Illinois department of
revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this
article. (Ord. O-02-024, 8-15-2002)
Sec. 8.902. Effective Date.
This article shall take effect for all gross charges billed by
telecommunications retailers on and after January 1, 2003. (Ord. O-02-024, 8-
15-2002)
ARTICLE X
TAXPAYERS' BILL OF RIGHTS
SECTION:
8.1001. Title
8.1002. Scope
8.1003. Definitions
8.1004. Notices
8.1005. Late Payment
8.1006. Payment
8.1007. Certain Credits And Refunds
8.1008. Audit Procedure
8.1009. Appeal
8.1010. Hearing
8.1011. Interest And Penalties
8.1012. Abatement
8.1013. Installment Contracts
8.1014. Statute Of Limitations
8.1015. Voluntary Disclosure
8.1016. Publication Of Tax Ordinances
8.1017. Liens; Internal Review Procedure
8.1018. Application
8.1019. Severability
Sec. 8.1001. Title.
This article shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000,
eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1002. Scope.
The provisions of this article shall apply to the city's procedures in
connection with all of the city's locally imposed and administered taxes. (Ord.
2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1003. Definitions.
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act".
CITY: The city of Wood Dale, DuPage County, Illinois.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The city council of the city of Wood Dale.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city's finance director, is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
article to give full effect to this article. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this article and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the city that
is collected or administered by the city not an agency or department of the
state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1004. Notices.
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1005. Late Payment.
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the city
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the city on or before the due date, or b) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city, with adequate postage
prepaid. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1006. Payment.
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1007. Certain Credits And Refunds.
   A.   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be one
year after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was made. The
city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and administered
taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the amounts directly
to the city.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1008. Audit Procedure.
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this article.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   C.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agree to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   D.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   E.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the local
tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the
local tax administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's
tax liability.
   F.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   G.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1009. Appeal.
   A.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protectable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the local tax
administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1010. Hearing.
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section 8.1009 of this article, the
local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit or
assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1011. Interest And Penalties.
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest: The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   B.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing
a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file
penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff.
1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1012. Abatement.
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1013. Installment Contracts.
The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1014. Statute Of Limitations.
The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns in
a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing.
The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   C.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1015. Voluntary Disclosure.
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000,
eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1016. Publication Of Tax Ordinances.
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the city
clerk's office. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1017. Liens; Internal Review Procedure.
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the city's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1018. Application.
This article shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the city's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict
with or inconsistent with this article, this article shall be controlling.
(Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
Sec. 8.1019. Severability.
If any section, paragraph or provision of this article shall be held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of
such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this article. (Ord. 2049, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
CHAPTER 9
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE I
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
SECTION:
9.101. Agency Established
9.102. Coordinator
9.103. Functions
9.104. Service As Mobile Support Team
9.105. Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
9.106. Emergency Action
9.107. Compensation
9.108. Reimbursement By State
9.109. Purchases And Expenditures
9.110. Oath
9.111. Office
Sec. 9.101. Agency Established.
There is hereby created the Wood Dale Emergency Services and Disaster Agency in
order to aid in the preventing, minimizing, repairing and alleviating of
injuries or damages resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or
other disloyal actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake,
telecommunications failure, or other natural or technological causes, in
accordance with "The Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Act of 1988" 1 .
The Wood Dale Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall consist of the
Coordinator and such additional members as may be selected by the Coordinator.
(Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
Sec. 9.102. Coordinator.
The Coordinator of the Wood Dale Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall
be appointed by the City Manager and shall serve until removed by same. The
Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the Wood Dale Emergency Services and
Disaster Agency, subject to the direction and control of the City Manager as
provided by statute. In the event of the absence, resignation, death or
inability to serve as the Coordinator, the City Manager, or any person
designated by him, shall be and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is
made as provided in this article. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 9.103. Functions.
   A.   The Wood Dale Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall perform such
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency functions within the City as shall be
prescribed in and by the State Emergency Services and Disaster Agency Plan and
Program prepared by the Governor and such orders, rules and regulations as may
be promulgated by the Governor, and in addition, shall perform such duties
outside the corporate limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid
agreement with any other political subdivision, municipality or quasi-
municipality entered into as provided in the "Illinois Emergency Services and
Disaster Agency Act of 1988" 1 .
   B.   The Wood Dale Emergency Services and Disaster Agency is charged hereby
with the responsibility for the preparation, coordination and implementation of
the City's emergency preparedness and disaster plan and the development of a
comprehensive Emergency Management Program under the direction of the
Coordinator. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
Sec. 9.104. Service As Mobile Support Team.
All or any members of the Wood Dale Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
organization may be designated as members of a mobile support team created by
the Director of the State Emergency Services and Disaster Agency as provided by
law. The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the Wood Dale Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
organization. Any member of a mobile support team who is a City employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor or the State Director
shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and
immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is not a
paid officer or employee of the City, while so serving, shall receive from the
State at least one dollar ($1.00) per year compensation as provided by law.
(Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 9.105. Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions.
The Coordinator of the Wood Dale Emergency Services and Disaster Agency may
negotiate mutual aid agreements with other cities or political subdivisions of
the State, but no such agreement shall be effective until it has been approved
by the City Manager and by the State Director of the Emergency Services and
Disaster Agency. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 9.106. Emergency Action.
If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the State
of Illinois of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile
action or from man-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the Wood
Dale Emergency Services and Disaster Agency to cooperate fully with the State
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 9.107. Compensation.
Members of the Wood Dale Emergency Services and Disaster Agency who are paid
employees or officers of the City, if called for training by the State Director
of Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, shall receive for the time spent in
such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held. (Ord.
O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 9.108. Reimbursement By State.
The City Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the State to the City for expenses incident to training
members of the Wood Dale Emergency Services and Disaster Agency as prescribed
by the State Director of Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the City in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, as provided by law, and any other
reimbursement made by the State incident to Wood Dale Emergency Services and
Disaster Agency activities as provided by law. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 9.109. Purchases And Expenditures.
The City Manager, on recommendation of the City Coordinator of the Wood Dale
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, may authorize any purchase or contracts
necessary to place the City in a position to combat effectively any disaster
resulting from the explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to
protect the public health and safety, protect property and provide emergency
assistance to victims in the case of such disaster, or from man-made or natural
disaster.
In the event of enemy-caused or other disaster, the City Coordinator of the
Wood Dale Emergency Services and Disaster Agency is authorized, on behalf of
the City, to procure such services, supplies, equipment or material as may be
necessary for such purposes, in view of the exigency without regard to the
statutory procedures or formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to
City contracts or obligations, as authorized by the "Illinois Emergency
Services and Disaster Agency Act of 1988"; provided, that if the City Council
meets at such time, he shall act subject to the directions and restrictions
imposed by that body. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 9.110. Oath.
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Wood Dale Emergency
Services and Disaster Agency shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe
to the following oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
   I                , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the Wood Dale Emergency Services and Disaster
Agency organization, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this State by force or violence.
(Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-2017)
Sec. 9.111. Office.
The City Manager is authorized to designate space in a City building, or
elsewhere, as may be provided for by the City Manager for the Wood Dale
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency as its office. (Ord. O-17-024, 11-16-
2017)
CHAPTER 10
STORMWATER AND FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE I
STORMWATER AND FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10.101. Title, Authorization, Findings, Stormwater Management Plan And
Watershed Plans
10.102. Stormwater Committee Enforcement Within The City
10.103. General Provisions
10.104. Administration
10.105. Requirements For Stormwater And Floodplain Management
10.106. Special Management Areas
10.107. Stormwater Management Permits
10.108. Prohibited Acts
10.109. Performance Security
10.110. Enforcement And Penalties
10.111. Appeals
10.112. Variances
10.113. Miscellaneous Provisions
Sec. 10.101. Title, Authorization, Findings, Stormwater Management Plan And
Watershed Plans.
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the WOOD DALE
STORMWATER AND FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE.
   B.   Authorization: The City promulgates this chapter pursuant to its
authority to adopt ordinances regulating floodplain management and governing
the location, width, course, and release rate of all stormwater runoff
channels, streams, and basins in the City, in accordance with the adopted
DuPage County stormwater management plan (hereinafter referred to as "plan").
The statutory authority for this chapter is contained in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, and 5/11-31-2 and other
applicable authority, all as amended from time to time.
   C.   Recommendation: The plan was recommended by the Stormwater Management
Committee of the DuPage County Board, after review by the appropriate agencies
and public hearing, as Ordinance OSM-0001-89. The plan is available for public
inspection in the Office of the City Clerk of the City of Wood Dale.
   D.   Findings: The City finds hereby that:
      1.   Inappropriate use of the floodplain and development have increased
flood risk, flood damage, and environmental degradation;
      2.   It is necessary to consider stormwater management on a watershed
basis;
      3.   The City drains poorly because of flat topography and soils of low
permeability;
      4.   The costs of increasing channel capacity are prohibitive;
      5.   Many land development practices upset the natural hydrologic balance
of the City's streams;
      6.   Most flood damage occurs to structures developed adjacent to streams
in the floodplain or floodway;
      7.   Wetlands represent a significant portion of the natural watershed
storage in the City, and wetlands play an essential role in flood storage,
conveyance, sediment control, and water quality enhancement;
      8.   Many stormwater management facilities are not adequately maintained;
      9.   The authority for control of stormwater facilities is widely
distributed to many entities in the City;
      10.   There are many strong local stormwater management programs; and
      11.   Inconsistent enforcement of stormwater regulations contributes to
the extent and severity of flood damage.
   E.   Adoption Of DuPage County Countywide Stormwater And Floodplain
Ordinance: It is hereby adopted by the City for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, use and occupancy,
location and maintenance of land development and building construction in
accordance with proper floodplain and stormwater controls, including permits
and penalties, that certain code known as the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance being particularly the May 14, 2019 edition
thereof, and all subsequent amendments, and the whole thereof, save and except
such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended per this chapter,
of which one copy has been and now is filed in the Office of the City Clerk and
the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
therein, and from the date on which this chapter shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the City.
   F.   Adoption Of Flood Study And Flood Maps: While the DuPage County
Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance includes a list of streams,
maps, and stream profiles, the following streams, maps, and stream profiles
apply specifically to the City of Wood Dale and surrounding unincorporated
DuPage County areas that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
City of Wood Dale and which may in the future be annexed to the City of Wood
Dale:
      1.   The mapped streams with designated floodways and floodplains are:
         a.   Salt Creek.
      2.   Flood insurance study, DuPage County, Illinois and incorporated
areas, dated August 1, 2019, and all subsequent revisions, including the
following specific stream flood profiles:
         a.   Salt Creek.
      3.   Flood Insurance Rate Map, DuPage County, Illinois, and incorporated
areas, County number 17043C, panel numbers 0059, 0076, 0077, 0078, and 0079,
dated August 1, 2019, and all subsequent revisions.
   G.   Purpose: This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted
to the City by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/
11-30-8, and 5/11-31-2. The purpose of this chapter is to maintain the City's
eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program; to minimize potential
losses due to periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief and
impairment of the tax bases, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare; and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface
waters, conserve economic and natural values and provide for the wise
utilization of water and related land resources. This chapter is adopted in
order to accomplish the following specific purposes:
      1.   Managing and mitigating the effects of urbanization on stormwater
drainage throughout the City;
      2.   Reducing the existing potential for stormwater damage to public
health, safety, life, and property;
      3.   Protecting human life and health from the hazards of flooding and
degradation of water quality;
      4.   Protecting and enhancing the quality, quantity, and availability of
surface and ground water resources;
      5.   Preserving and enhancing existing wetlands and aquatic and riparian
buffers;
      6.   Controlling sediment and erosion in and from stormwater facilities,
developments, and construction sites;
      7.   Preventing the further degradation of the quality of ground and
surface waters;
      8.   Requiring appropriate and adequate provision for site runoff
control, especially when the land is developed for human activity;
      9.   Requiring the design and evaluation of each site runoff control plan
consistent with watershed capacities;
      10.   Encouraging the use of stormwater storage in preference to
stormwater conveyance;
      11.   Lessening the taxpayers' burden for flood related disasters,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
      12.   Meeting the requirements of 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18g
Rivers, Lakes and Streams Act, as amended from time to time;
      13.   Making Federally subsidized flood insurance available to individual
communities and for property throughout the County by fulfilling the
requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program;
      14.   Complying with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified in title 44 of the Code of Federal Regulations;
      15.   Encouraging cooperation between the County, communities, and other
governmental entities with respect to floodplain and stormwater management;
      16.   Requiring cooperation and consistency in stormwater management
activities within and between the units of government having stormwater
jurisdiction;
      17.   Restricting future development in the floodplain to facilities that
will not adversely affect the floodplain environments or adversely affect the
potential for flood damage;
      18.   Incorporating water quality and habitat protection measures in all
stormwater management activities within DuPage County;
      19.   Requiring regular, planned maintenance of stormwater management
facilities;
      20.   Encouraging control of stormwater quantity and quality at the most
site specific or local level;
      21.   Allowing the use of simple technologies whenever appropriate and
realistic, but requiring the use of more sophisticated techniques when
necessary to ensure the adequacy of stormwater controls;
      22.   Providing a procedure by which communities throughout the County
may petition the DuPage County Stormwater Management Planning Committee to
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter or an ordinance consistent
with, and at least as stringent as, this chapter; and
      23.   Requiring strict compliance with and enforcement of this chapter.
   H.   Scope Of Provisions:
      1.   This chapter supplements all of the subdivision, zoning, and
building regulations of the City of Wood Dale.
      2.   The provisions of this chapter regulate and restrict:
         a.   The subdivision, layout and improvement of land, including
drainage, underground utilities and service facilities;
         b.   The excavating, filling and grading of lots and other parcels and
areas of floodplains, the storing of certain materials thereon, modifications
of streams and other floodwater runoff channels, detention ponds and basins;
and
         c.   The location, construction and elevation of buildings and other
structures and parts and appurtenances thereof, and the drainage of parking and
other paved lots or areas.
   I.   Reference To Watershed Plans: This chapter recognizes the integrated
nature of the watershed system and the need to study certain flood control
alternatives and other stormwater management functions on a watershed basis.
      1.   The following major watershed divisions affecting the territory
within the corporate limits of the City are identified for detailed watershed
studies:
         a.   Salt Creek watershed;
         b.   Des Plaines River tributaries watershed.
      2.   Watershed plans or interim watershed plans shall be prepared and
periodically updated for the two (2) major watersheds identified in subsection
I1 of this section, to identify management projects and establish criteria for
development.
      3.   Adopted watershed plans or interim watershed plans which contain
specific criteria more or less stringent than the criteria established in this
chapter shall govern.
         a.   Such watershed plans, upon their completion, approval, and proper
adoption, shall be deemed as being incorporated into this chapter hereby.
         b.   Watershed specific criteria established in such watershed plans
or interim watershed plans, upon their completion, shall be set forth in
subsection I1 of this section.
      4.   The requirements of this chapter shall apply in all watersheds
unless superseded by specific watershed criteria. (Ord. O-19-023, 7-18-2019,
eff. 7-18-2019)
Sec. 10.102. Stormwater Committee Enforcement Within The City.
   A.   Authority and procedures regarding enforcement and complaints shall be
as indicated in the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance.
   B.   When applicable, the City designates the Public Works and/or Community
Development Departments to receive the complaint and perform all necessary
tasks regarding the complaint, including preparation of a written report of
findings and determinations with the assistance of the City Engineer. (Ord. O-
19-023, 7-18-2019, eff. 7-18-2019)
Sec. 10.103. General Provisions.
   A.   Scope Of Regulation:
      1.   This chapter shall apply to all development of property within the
boundaries of the City, including those under the control of any governmental
entity, agency, or authority, except State and Federal government agencies of
higher jurisdiction or authority.
      2.   Refer to the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance section 15-23 for all other scope and exemption provisions.
   B.   Interpretation: The DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance section 15-25 shall apply with the following exception:
      1.   Interpretation of technical provisions of this chapter shall be made
by the City Engineer who may also consult the MEG for an advisory opinion.
   C.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: Refer to the DuPage County
Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-26.
   D.   Definitions:
    COE: United States Army Corps of Engineers.
   FEMA: The Federal Emergency Management Agency and its regulations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION OR FPE: The elevation of the base flood plus two
feet (2') at any given location in the special flood hazard area.
   FLOODPLAIN: The area typically adjacent to and including a body of water
where ground surface elevations are at or below a specified flood elevation.
   FLOODWAY: That portion of the SFHA required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodway for the SFHAs of Salt Creek shall be as delineated on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, DuPage County, Illinois, and incorporated areas,
County number 17043C, panel numbers 0059, 0076, 0077, 0078, and 0079, dated
August 1, 2019, and all subsequent revisions. The floodway for each of the
remaining SFHAs of the City shall be according to the best data available to
the Illinois State water survey floodplain information repository.
   OWR: Illinois Department of Natural Resources - Office of Water Resources.
   REGULATORY FLOODPLAIN: The floodplain as determined by the base flood
elevation used as the basis for regulation in section 15-80 of the DuPage
County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance. (Ord. O-19-023, 7-18-
2019, eff. 7-18-2019)
Sec. 10.104. Administration.
   A.   Responsibility For Administration:
      1.   The City Council shall determine policy related to and direct the
enforcement of this chapter.
      2.   The City Engineer shall have the authority and responsibility for
the administration of this chapter. In performing his or her duties, the City
Engineer may delegate routine responsibilities to any named designee.
      3.   The City shall remain solely responsible for its standing in the
NFIP and for:
         a.   Maintaining records and submitting reports for the NFIP,
including elevation certificates, floodproofing certificates, and lowest floor
elevations; and
         b.   Notifying the DuPage County Director of Stormwater Management,
FEMA, OWR, COE, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the Federal
Environmental Protection Agency of any proposed amendment to this chapter.
   B.   Duties Of The City Engineer: The City Engineer shall perform the duties
and functions as set forth in the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and
Floodplain Ordinance sections 15-13 and 15-14.
   C.   Duties Of The Public Works Director: The Public Works Director shall
oversee the implementation and enforcement of this chapter within the City.
   D.   Representative Capacity: Refer to the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance regarding any action taken by the City or a
City designee.
   E.   Required Inspections: Developments shall be subject to periodic
inspections by the City, City Engineer, or other City designee per the DuPage
County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-20. (Ord. O-
19-023, 7-18-2019, eff. 7-18-2019)
Sec. 10.105. Requirements For Stormwater And Floodplain Management.
   A.   General Information:
      1.   All developments shall meet the requirements specified for general
stormwater and floodplain development, site runoff, sediment and erosion
control, and performance security as outlined in this chapter, or as outlined
in the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance, whichever
is more restrictive.
      2.   An increase of ten thousand (10,000) square feet or more of
impervious area will require detention, rather than an increase of twenty five
thousand (25,000) square feet or more as required by DuPage County.
      3.   Development shall also meet the more specific requirements of
applicable adopted watershed plans or adopted interim watershed plans, set
forth earlier in this chapter.
      4.   All developments within floodplain, floodway wetlands, buffers, and
substantial improvements within a floodplain, shall also satisfy the
requirements specified in section
10.106 of this article.
      5.   All developers shall submit the documents specified in section
10.107 of this article to verify compliance with these requirements.
      6.   Facilities constructed under the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained according to the criteria and guidelines established in the plan.
Maintenance is the responsibility of the owner of the land on which the
stormwater facilities are constructed unless the responsibility is assigned,
pursuant to subsection
10.109H of this article, to an entity acceptable to the governmental unit that
has jurisdiction over such land.
   B.   General Stormwater And Floodplain Requirements:
      1.   Development shall comply with the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance sections 15-27 and 15-28 as well as the
following requirements.
      2.   The analysis and design of all stormwater and floodplain facilities
required for development shall:
         a.   Be consistent with the technical guidance for the DuPage
Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance for the plan;
         b.   Consider existing and ultimate watershed and land use conditions,
with and without the proposed development.
      3.   Stormwater facilities shall be functional before building permits
are issued for residential and nonresidential subdivisions. Stormwater
facilities include site runoff storage and flood compensatory storage or
building construction that increases total impervious area.
      4.   Stormwater facilities shall be functional where practicable for
single parcel developments before general construction begins.
      5.   All usable space in new buildings or added to existing buildings
adjacent to a major stormwater system, site runoff storage facility overflow
path or site runoff storage facility, shall be elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise protected to at least one foot (1') above the design elevation to
prevent the entry of surface stormwater. The design elevation is the elevation
associated with the design rate as determined in subsection D8f of this
section.
   C.   Site Runoff Requirements:
      1.   Development: Development shall comply with the DuPage County
Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-71 as well as the
following requirements.
      2.   No Damage To Adjacent Property: Stormwater facilities shall be
required and be designed so that runoff exits the site at a point where flows
will not damage adjacent property.
      3.   Compliance With Illinois Law: Stormwater facilities shall be
designed to conform with the requirements of Illinois law and the applicable
watershed plans.
      4.   Design Runoff Rates Calculation: Design runoff rates shall be
calculated by using continuous simulation models or by event hydrograph
methods. If event hydrograph methods are used, they must be either HEC-1 SCS
runoff method, TR-20, HEC-HMS, or TR-55 tabular method. Event methods must
incorporate the following assumptions:
         a.   Antecedent moisture condition = 2; and
         b.   Huff or SCS type II rainfall distribution.
      5.   Stormwater System Location: Major and minor stormwater systems shall
be located within easements or rights-of-way explicitly providing for public
access for maintenance of such facilities.
      6.   Maximum Flow Depths: Maximum flow depths on any roadway shall not
exceed six inches (6") during the base flood condition. This requirement does
not apply to the at-grade repair, resurfacing or in-kind replacement of a
roadway existing prior to the effective date of this chapter.
      7.   Incorporation Of BMPs: Developments shall, to the extent practicable
and necessary, incorporate the following Best Management Practices (hereinafter
referred to as "BMPs") into the design to minimize increases in runoff rates,
volumes, and pollutant loads:
         a.   The following requirements for site runoff shall apply to
industrial and commercial developments and also to residential developments to
the extent not inconsistent with the requirements in subsection C7b of this
section:
            (1)   All runoff from rooftops and parking lots, and discharge from
sump pumps, that does not discharge into a site runoff storage facility shall
be directed onto vegetated swales of filter strips, for a distance of at least
fifty feet (50').
            (2)   Vegetated swales shall be utilized, where appropriate, as an
alternative to storm sewers to promote the infiltration of stormwater and the
filtration of stormwater pollutants.
            (3)   Effective impervious surface area should be limited by site
designs which minimize the area of streets, parking lots, and rooftops and/or
utilize permeable paving material such as concrete grids in low traffic areas.
            (4)   Other Best Management Practices (hereinafter referred to as
BMPs) such as infiltration basins and trenches (where permeable soils are
present) and filtration basins and sand filters (on highly impervious or
industrial developments) shall be utilized where appropriate.
            (5)   The practices and procedures established in the technical
guidance for the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance
for the plan and as described in the United States Environmental Protection
Agency's "Guidance Specifying Management Measures for Sources of Nonpoint
Pollution in Coastal Waters", dated January 1993.
         b.   The following requirements shall apply to all residential
developments for which building permits are issued on and after March 1, 2009:
            (1)   For all teardown lots and all subdivisions less than one-half
(1/2) acre in size:
               (A)   All gutters, downspouts and sump pump discharges shall
have their flows directed in such a manner as to disperse the flow throughout
the lot, to provide maximum infiltration, and reduce the concentration of flow
which may otherwise have an adverse effect on neighboring properties. Where the
property is tributary to a detention basin that was designed to accommodate the
runoff from the lot or subdivision, downspouts and sump pump discharges shall
be connected directly to the storm sewer. Where the property is not tributary
to such detention basin, vegetated infiltration areas with subsurface drainage
shall be used to provide stormwater quality benefits and reduce the
concentration of runoff.
               (B)   Slopes on all lots shall be designed at a minimum of two
percent (2%) grade, except that on lots existing prior to March 1, 2009, the
existing slopes may be allowed to remain if they are a minimum of one and one-
half percent (11/2%) grade. Following construction, an as built survey shall be
submitted to the City in order to verify that the site was constructed to the
elevations and slopes shown on the approved engineering plans. It shall be
unlawful for the owner of any property which has been improved or graded in
accordance with the provisions specified herein to alter the grading from that
which is shown on the approved as built plan.
               (C)   Additionally, the entire runoff from the site shall be
treated in accordance with the BMP requirements of the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance, or a fee specified in the master fee
schedule, shall be paid in lieu of providing such treatment. The fee in lieu
rate shall be in accordance with the current County ordinance:
Use of the fee in lieu option shall satisfy the requirements with respect to
the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance BMP; however,
all City of Wood Dale requirements must still be adhered to, including those in
subsections C7b(1)(A) and C7b(1)(B) of this section. The fee in lieu funds
collected shall be accounted for in a separate account and shall be used for
the construction of new BMPs, or for the maintenance and repair of existing
BMPs.
            (2)   For all subdivisions between one-half (1/2) and two (2) acres
in size:
               (A)   All of the requirements in subsection C7b(1) of this
section.
               (B)   The drainage system of all subdivisions whose final plats
are approved on or after March 1, 2009, shall be required to connect to an
existing storm sewer. If an existing storm sewer is not adjacent to the
subdivision, an offsite storm sewer shall be constructed.
            (3)   For all subdivisions two (2) acres or greater in size:
               (A)   Site runoff storage (detention) is required in accordance
with this Code.
               (B)   The detention facilities shall be designed in accordance
with the provisions of the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance and shall incorporate BMPs in accordance with the recommendations
found in appendix E of the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance: water quality Best Management Practices technical guidance. This
shall be in addition to the requirements of this subsection C7 and this Code.
There shall be no fee in lieu of providing water quality BMPs for residential
subdivisions of two (2) acres or greater requiring runoff storage.
         c.   An alternative to providing water quality BMPs for other types of
development, an owner or developer may pay a fee in lieu specified in the
master fee schedule. No fee in lieu of providing water quality BMPs shall be
granted for developments other than those expressly provided for in subsections
C7a and C7b of this section and this subsection C7c.
         d.   Variances from the requirements of subsections C7a and C7b of
this section shall conform to the procedures and requirements of section
10.112 of this article, except that, prior to submitting the petition for
variance to the Community Development Director, the City Engineer shall submit
such to the DuPage County Stormwater Management Planning Committee for review
and the making of recommendation. The recommendations of the DuPage County
Stormwater Management Planning Committee shall be submitted for consideration
by the Community Development Commission at the same time as the petition for
variance is considered. No variance requesting the construction of swales as
the sole means of accommodating stormwater runoff in either new developments or
on teardown lots shall be granted unless the appropriate drainage structures
and storm sewers are provided at the receiving end of the swales to collect the
runoff. No variance for a fee in lieu of providing water quality BMPs shall be
granted where runoff storage (detention) is required.
      8.   Best Management Practices: Best Management Practices are required in
accordance with the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance sections 15-63, 15-64, and 15-65 as well as the following
requirements.
         a.   Postconstruction Best Management Practices: PCBMPs, a term that
also includes VCBMPs, are required onsite to treat stormwater runoff for
pollutants of concern and reduce runoff volume for all developments with two
thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet or more net new impervious area
compared to predevelopment conditions, with the exceptions and exclusions noted
below. Upon a documented finding by the City Engineer that providing either
PCBMPs or VCBMPs onsite is impractical, then a PCBMP fee in lieu shall be paid
by the applicant in lieu of providing onsite PCBMPs and VCBMPs.
            (1)   Onsite PCBMPs or VCBMPs are waived for the following
developments in addition to those listed in the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance:
               (A)   The development is limited to the resurfacing or
reconstruction of an existing roadway or the replacement of an existing culvert
or bridge that drains to an appropriately sized and functional PCBMP; or
               (B)   Linear utility developments. This exception does not
include buildings, substations, pads, parking lots or other associated utility
support facilities.
            (2)   DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance
section 15-63.B prohibits onsite infiltration for certain types of projects.
However, the City requires an equivalent PCBMP fee in lieu if specifically
waived by the County:
         b.   Volume Control Best Management Practices Design Criteria: Refer
to the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance sections
15-63, 15-64, and 15-65 as well as the following requirements:
            (1)   The required VCBMP volume shall be calculated as the product
of the new impervious area and the rainfall depth generated from a 1.25-inch
rainfall event occurring over a two (2) hour period. No abstractions are taken
on the rainfall depth.
               (A)   The VCBMP shall be designed with sufficient volume to
store the calculated volume.
               (B)   The preferred method of discharge from the VCBMP facility
is through an infiltration or evapotranspiration facility. Where soils are
inappropriate for infiltration, a means of positive conveyance, such as a
perforated drain, may be used provided that the VCBMP does not draw down in
less than forty eight (48) hours. The underdrain may not be set with an invert
below the midline of the trench or other excavation.
               (C)   A control structure or minimum four inch (4") perforated
drain shall be used where volumes are very small and conveyance designs become
impractical to implement, even if that causes drawdown times to be less than
forty eight (48) hours.
            (2)   The design of the facility will be such that runoff from
impervious surfaces is captured, with a preference for those impervious
surfaces used by automobiles, if an element of the overall development.
         c.   Pollutants Of Concern: PCBMPs are required onsite to treat the
identified pollutants of concern in runoff from newly constructed impervious
surfaces in a development. Applicants shall identify the pollutants of concern
that may be generated by the proposed development from the following list:
total suspended soils (TSS), metals, oils, and nutrients consisting of nitrogen
and phosphorous. Applicants shall design the combination of onsite VCBMPs and
PCBMPs to store any required volume and treat the identified pollutants of
concern. Proposed PCBMPs shall only be required to treat those pollutants
identified and agreed to by the City Engineer.
         d.   VCBMPs Effective At Pollutant Removal: The following VCBMPs are
considered to be effective at pollutant removal, provided that they are
designed to also treat the pollutants of concern:
            (1)   Constructed wetlands, or
            (2)   Wet or wetland bottom site runoff storage basins, or
            (3)   Vegetated compensatory flood storage ponds, or
            (4)   Infiltration ponds or trenches, with vegetative surfaces,
with or without an underdrain system.
            (5)   Vegetated swales with infiltration capability, with or
without an underdrain system.
            (6)   Other VCBMPs that can be demonstrated to be effective at
treating the pollutants of concern.
   D.   Site Runoff Storage Requirements (Detention):
      1.   Maximum site runoff storage requirements shall be consistent with
the information, procedures, and requirements of the applicable Watershed Plans
and Studies of this section, except as limited by the provisions of subsection
D2 of this section.
      2.   If no release rate, or a greater release rate than identified below,
is specified in the applicable Watershed Plans and Studies of this section,
then sufficient storage shall be provided such that the probability of the post
development release rate exceeding 0.1 cfs/acre of disturbed site area shall be
less than one percent (1.0%) per year. Design runoff volumes shall be
calculated using continuous simulation or event hydrograph methods.
      3.   If event hydrograph methods are used to calculate design runoff
volumes, they must be either HEC-1 SCS runoff method with outlet routing
option, TR-20 with outlet control routing option, or TR-55 tabular method.
Events methods shall incorporate the following assumptions:
         a.   Antecedent moisture condition = 2; and
         b.   Huff or SCS type II rainfall distribution; and
         c.   Twenty four (24) hour duration storm with a one percent (1%)
probability of occurrence in any one year as specified by Illinois State Water
Survey Bulletin 70 Northeast Sectional Rainfall Statistics, as amended from
time to time.
      4.   If continuous simulation methods are used, design runoff volumes
shall be calculated using the Wheaton National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration rainfall record from 1949 to present.
      5.   For sites where the undeveloped release rate is less than the
maximum release rate in subsection D2 of this section, the developed release
rate and corresponding site runoff storage volume shall be based on the
existing undeveloped release rate for the development site.
      6.   All hydrologic and hydraulic computations must be verified under the
full range of expected downstream water surface elevations, from low flow
through the base flood elevation.
      7.   Responsibility for maintenance of all storage facilities shall be
designated on the plat of subdivision or other recorded documents.
      8.   Storage facilities shall be designed and constructed with the
following characteristics:
         a.   Water surface depths two feet (2') above the base flood elevation
will not damage the storage facility.
         b.   The storage facilities shall be accessible and easily maintained.
         c.   All outlet works shall function without human intervention or
outside power and shall operate with minimum maintenance.
         d.   Storage facilities shall facilitate sedimentation and catchment
of floating material.
         e.   Storage facilities shall minimize impacts of stormwater runoff on
water quality by incorporating Best Management Practices.
         f.   Storage facilities shall provide an overflow structure and
overflow path that can safely pass excess flows through the development site.
The minimum design rate shall be 1.0 cfs/acre of the entire upstream drainage
area tributary to the storage facility without damaging any buildings onsite or
surrounding the site with overbank flooding and shall discharge at the same
location as where water leaves the site pre-development. This location may be
modified by the Public Works Director or City Engineer. This conveyance shall
begin operation at the elevation at which the site runoff storage volume is
met. If one hundred (100) acres or greater drains to the emergency overflow,
then the overflow is part of the major drainage system and it also falls under
the floodplain management requirements. A minimum of one foot (1') freeboard
shall be permitted around the detention basin above the design water level of
the overflow structure.
         g.   Wet detention basins shall be designed to remove stormwater
pollutants, to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing, and as much as feasible
to be available for recreational use.
            (1)   Wet basins shall be at least three feet (3') deep, excluding
near shore banks and safety ledges. If fish habitat is to be provided, they
shall be at least ten feet (10') deep over twenty five percent (25%) of the
bottom area to prevent winter freeze out.
            (2)   The permanent pool volume in a wet basin at normal depth
shall be equal to the runoff volume from its watershed for a twenty four (24)
hour duration storm with a fifty percent (50%) probability of occurrence in any
year.
            (3)   Wet basins shall be designed in a manner which will reduce as
much as practicable nuisance problems such as algae. Aeration or other control
methods may be required to minimize such nuisance problems.
         h.   The maximum stormwater storage depth in parking lots shall be not
greater than six inches (6").
         i.   The shorelines of all detention basins at 100-year capacity shall
be as level as practicable to prevent accidental falls into the basin and for
stability and ease of maintenance. Shorelines shall not have a greater than
four to one (4:1) horizontal to vertical slope. Shoreline protection shall be
provided to prevent erosion from wave action.
         j.   The side of the banks of both wet and dry detention basins shall
not have a horizontal to vertical slope steeper than four to one (4:1). Every
retention or detention basin or other storage facility shall be constructed so
that there is no encroachment of water at high water level upon adjacent lots
or tracts.
         k.   All wet detention basins shall have a level safety ledge
extending ten feet (10') into the basin from the shoreline and three feet (3')
below the normal water depth. The ledge shall be pitched to the shoreline at
four percent (4%).
         l.   Velocities throughout the drainage system shall be controlled to
safe levels taking into consideration rates and depths of flow.
      9.   Developments with storage facilities that have off site flow
tributary to the site either shall provide storage sufficient to accommodate
runoff from the offsite tributary watershed and the site or shall store the
site runoff and convey off site flow through the development while preserving
the existing flow and storage of the site.
   E.   Detention Variance Fee Program: Refer to the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-97.
   F.   Soil Erosion And Sediment Control Requirements: Refer to the DuPage
County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-58.
   G.   Soil Erosion And Sediment Control Plan Design Criteria:
      1.   All items listed in section 15-59 of the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance shall apply.
      2.   If the volume, velocity, sediment load, or peak flow rates of
stormwater runoff are temporarily increased during construction, then
properties and floodplain, floodway wetlands, and buffers downstream from such
development sites shall be protected from erosion.
      3.   The surface of stripped areas shall be permanently or temporarily
protected from soil erosion within fifteen (15) days after final grade is
reached. Stripped areas that will remain undisturbed for more than fifteen (15)
days after initial disturbance shall be protected from erosion.
      4.   All control measures necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter shall be kept operational and maintained continuously throughout the
period of land disturbance until permanent sediment and erosion control
measures are operational.
   H.   Modifications To Drainage Tiles: Refer to the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-77. (Ord. O-19-023, 7-18-2019,
eff. 7-18-2019)
Sec. 10.106. Special Management Areas.
   A.   Definition: Special management areas shall generally refer to
floodplain, floodway, wetlands, and buffers as defined and regulated herein as
well as within the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance.
   B.   Requirements For Regulatory Floodplain And Regulatory Floodway
Determination:
      1.   Refer to the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance section 15-80.
      2.   Any developer proposing development shall identify the boundaries
and elevation of the regulatory floodplain and the boundaries of the regulatory
floodway.
      3.   The regulatory floodplain shall be determined by the highest base
flood elevation for a development site at the time of application, or for
purposes of establishing the low opening on new construction of buildings, as
determined by the hierarchy established in the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-80.
      4.   If a floodway is not designated on the maps on file in the Office of
the City Clerk, then the regulatory floodway shall be deemed to be the
regulatory floodplain.
   C.   Requirements For Development Within the Regulatory Floodplain:
      1.   DuPage County Requirements: Refer to the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-81 as well as the following
requirements.
      2.   Floodway Conveyance: Development shall preserve effective floodway
conveyance such that there will be no increases in flood elevations, flows, or
floodway velocity, unless any such increases are contained in a public flood
easement and a watershed benefit is provided.
      3.   Elevation: All usable space in new buildings, added to existing
buildings, or in existing buildings in the floodplain undergoing substantial
improvement shall be elevated to at least one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation.
      4.   Compensatory Storage:
         a.   Compensatory storage shall be operational prior to placement of
fill, structures, or other materials in the regulatory floodplain.
         b.   Any removal, replacement, or modification of stormwater
facilities that has an existing hydraulic impact shall provide a watershed
benefit and shall require compensatory storage to mitigate for any potential
increases in flow or flood elevations. All structures and their associated low
entry elevations within the created backwater of the existing stormwater
facility shall be identified.
      5.   Building Protection Standards:
         a.   Existing structures shall not be enlarged, replaced, or
structurally altered unless the changes meet the requirements for development.
If the changes constitute substantial improvement to a building in the
floodplain, then the entire building shall meet the requirements for
development.
         b.   Existing structures may be floodproofed. Floodproofing devices
shall meet the requirements for development in the floodplain and be
operational without human intervention. If electricity is required, then there
must be a backup power source that will activate without human intervention.
The floodproofing shall be certified by a professional engineer.
         c.   New structures other than buildings shall either be elevated to
at least one foot (1') above the base flood elevation or designed for
protection against physical flood damages. Floodproofing devices shall be
operational without human intervention. If electricity is required for
protection against flood damage, then there must be a backup power source that
will activate without human intervention. The floodproofing shall be certified
by a professional engineer.
         d.   When a structure is elevated by some means other than filling in
the regulatory floodplain:
            (1)   The usable space of any building and all electrical, heating,
ventilating, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment shall be located at least
one foot (1') above the highest base flood elevation; and
            (2)   All materials and structures less than one foot (1') above
the base flood elevation shall be resistant to flood damage.
      6.   Additional Requirements For Manufactured Homes:
         a.   Adequate access and drainage shall be provided;
         b.   If pilings are used for elevation, applicable design and
construction standards for pilings shall be met.
      7.   Documents: A copy of an application for a CLOMR, CLOMA, LOMA, or
LOMR including all the required information, calculations, and documents shall
be submitted to the department concurrent with the application to FEMA or OWR
or its designee.
      8.   Filling And Excavating: No filling, grading, dredging, or excavating
shall take place until a CLOMR is issued by FEMA.
      9.   Fill: Any fill required to elevate a building must extend at least
ten feet (10') beyond the foundation before the grade slopes below the highest
base flood elevation.
      10.   Release Rate: The release rate from new or modified storm sewer
outfalls shall meet the requirements of subsection
10.105D of this article, or demonstrate compliance with this section.
      11.   Hydrologic And Hydraulic Impacts: Hydrologic and hydraulic impacts
of developments located in the regulatory floodway shall be evaluated using the
applicable regulatory model and confirmed using watershed plan models, if
available, or models meeting the plan standards for watershed planning or as
directed by the City Engineer. The hydrologic and hydraulic impacts of
development shall be evaluated using events representing the frequency range
from fifty percent (50%) (2-year) to one percent (1%) (100-year) probability of
being equaled or exceeded in a given year. The results of any such evaluation
shall be submitted to the department.
      12.   Evaluation Of Impacts: Any proposed development in the regulatory
floodway shall evaluate the hydrologic and hydraulic impacts for existing and
future impacts of the proposed development on the waterway.
   D.   Requirements For Wetland Delineation:
      1.   Refer to the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance section 15-85 as well as the following requirements.
      2.   Any developer proposing development in or near mapped wetland areas
shall identify the boundaries, extent, hydrology, function and quality of all
wetland areas on the subject property. The presence and extent of wetland areas
on the subject property shall be determined as the result of an onsite wetland
procedure and verified by an environmental scientist representing the community
where the wetland is located. This procedure shall be conducted in accordance
with the current Federal wetland determination methodology authorized under
section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
      3.   Critical wetland status shall be assigned to those wetlands that
have been determined to satisfy one or more of the criteria in the DuPage
County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance or one the following:
         a.   The ratio of stormwater storage volume available at the base
flood elevation to tributary basin runoff volume to the wetland is twenty five
percent (25%) or greater, or alternatively using a method described in
subsection
10.105D of this article, the loss of wetland storage causes adverse off site
impacts that cannot be mitigated in accordance with subsection
10.105C of this article and subsection C of this section. If both methods are
performed, the methods described in subsection
10.105D of this article shall prevail as the determining value; or
         b.   The existing release rate from the wetland is 0.1 cfs/acre or
less and determined using the method described in subsection
10.105D3 of this article.
      4.   All other wetlands not meeting one or more critical wetland criteria
shall be assigned a regulatory wetland status. The final determination of
status shall be made by the City Engineer based upon a review of submitted
information and when necessary, upon consultation with outside wetland
authorities.
   E.   Requirements For Development Affecting The Function And Values Of
Wetlands: Refer to the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance section 15-86.
   F.   Direct And Indirect Impacts To Wetlands:
      1.   Refer to the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance section 15-87 as well as the following requirements.
      2.   Development will be permitted only when the proposed direct
environmental impacts to onsite wetlands, and indirect environmental impacts to
offsite wetlands, can be sufficiently evaluated, minimized, and mitigated, as
specified in this subsection F.
      3.   Mitigated wetlands shall be designed to duplicate or improve the
hydrologic, biologic, and economic features of the original wetland. The City
Engineer may require a greater compensation ratio where special wetland
functions are threatened.
      4.   Creation of wetlands for the mitigation of development impacts
within or affecting a critical or regulatory wetland may take place only within
areas not currently comprised of wetlands.
      5.   Mitigation of impacts within or affecting critical and regulatory
wetlands shall include design, construction, and continued maintenance of the
mitigation measures.
      6.   The City Engineer, at his or her discretion, may allow an existing
wetland contiguous to a proposed regulatory wetland mitigation site to be
enhanced in exchange for a partial reduction in the mitigation area required.
In no case shall the area replacement be allowed to fall below a one to one (1:
1) ratio.
      7.   Development in or affecting a wetland environment shall be initiated
only after a mitigation plan has been approved and adequate securities are
provided as specified in section 10.109 of this article.
      8.   The designs and analyses of all wetland mitigation measures shall
meet the standards of the plan and shall comply with all applicable Federal,
State, and local regulations regarding wetland impact and mitigation.
      9.   The City Engineer shall require that the developer or owner provide
the City with periodic monitoring reports, at least annually, on the status of
the constructed mitigation measures and progress towards meeting the approved
performance standards, and further may require the developer or owner to
undertake remedial action to bring the area into compliance with the mitigation
plan.
      10.   To the extent practicable, development within fifty feet (50') of a
wetland shall not, without mitigation:
         a.   Adversely change the quantity, quality, or temporal and areal
distribution of flows entering any adjacent wetlands or waters; nor
         b.   Destroy or damage vegetation that stabilizes wetland fringe areas
or provides overland flow filtration to wetlands; nor
         c.   Adversely affect any groundwater infiltration functions.
   G.   Wetland Banking:
      1.   Refer to the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance section 15-89 as well as the following requirement.
      2.   If a wetland meets all the conditions for mitigation in a Wetland
Banking Program and there is not a Wetland Banking Program in the watershed
planning area, mitigation outside the watershed planning area is permitted
provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Mitigation is to be provided in the closest Wetland Banking
Program with the greatest wetland deficit. If there are no watershed planning
areas with a wetland deficit, then the mitigation shall take place in the
closest Wetland Banking Program. The Wetland Banking Program shall be
determined by measuring from the centroid of wetland disturbance to the closest
appropriate watershed planning boundary.
         b.   The area of mitigation available within a Wetland Banking Program
available in any Wetland Banking Program for mitigation from outside the
watershed planning area shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the original
bank area.
   H.   Riparian Buffer Requirements:
      1.   Refer to the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance section 15-92 as well as the following requirements:
      2.   Riparian buffers serve the following functions:
         a.   Prevents erosion and promotes bank stability of streams, lakes,
ponds, or wetland shorelines.
         b.   Controls sediment from upland areas thus reducing the impact of
urbanization on stream habitat and water quality by filtering and assimilating
nutrients discharged from surrounding uplands.
         c.   Insulates and moderates daily and seasonal stream temperature
fluctuations by maintaining cooler instream temperatures for areas with
overhang vegetation.
         d.   Serves as important sites for denitrification, which reduces
development of algal blooms and subsequent depressed levels of dissolved oxygen
in stream.
         e.   Provides an effective mechanism for treatment of contaminated
surface runoff.
         f.   Provides habitat corridors for both aquatic and terrestrial fauna
and flora.
         g.   Provides recreational and aesthetics values for human use.
      3.   Any developer proposing development in a riparian buffer shall
identify the boundaries by using the first of the following documents or
procedures pertaining at the time of development:
         a.   Riparian buffers identified in watershed plans.
         b.   Riparian buffers identified in interim watershed plans.
         c.   Vegetative areas along waterways within the limits of the
regulatory floodplain. If there is no floodplain designated, either by FEMA or
OWR, then the riparian buffer shall extend a minimum of seventy five feet (75')
from the ordinary high water level of the water body or delineated wetland,
unless property boundaries limitations exist, or it can otherwise be
demonstrated that a lesser width is sufficient; but in no case shall a buffer
be less than fifteen feet (15') in width.
      4.   Tree cutting and vegetation removal shall be minimized within
riparian buffers, and revegetation of disturbed areas shall take place as soon
as possible.
      5.   Development in a riparian buffer shall be initiated only in
accordance with the requirements of this subsection G and the standards of the
plan and upon consultation with the technical guidance for the DuPage
Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance for the plan.
      6.   To the extent practicable, development in a riparian buffer shall
not, without mitigation:
         a.   Adversely change the quantity, quality, or temporal and areal
distribution of flows entering any adjacent critical wetlands or waters; nor
         b.   Destroy or damage vegetation that overhangs, stabilizes, provides
overland flow filtration, or shades stream channels, wetlands, or impoundments
that normally contain water; nor
         c.   Adversely affect any groundwater infiltration functions.
   I.   Development Affecting A Buffer:
      1.   Refer to the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance section 15-94 as well as the following requirements:
      2.   The length of any mitigated channel shall be equal to or greater
than the length of the disturbed channel.
      3.   Mitigation in riparian buffers shall be in accordance with the
procedures specified in the plan.
      4.   Mitigation measures in riparian buffers shall include required
provisions for long term maintenance. (Ord. O-19-023, 7-18-2019, eff. 7-18-
2019)
Sec. 10.107. Stormwater Management Permits.
   A.   DuPage County Requirements: All permit requirements shall apply as
outlined in the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance
chapter IV as well as the following requirements.
   B.   General Requirements:
      1.   All stormwater management permit review fees shall be paid at the
time of application.
      2.   All submittals that include the design of stormwater facilities,
calculations for the determination of the regulatory floodplain, or
calculations of the impacts of development shall meet the standards of the plan
and shall be prepared, signed, and sealed by a professional engineer. Such
professional engineer shall provide a statement rendering an opinion that the
technical submittal and development meets the minimum criteria for stormwater
management required by the plan and this chapter.
      3.   Any structure subject to a differential water pressure head of
greater than three feet (3') shall be prepared, signed, and sealed by a
structural engineer.
      4.   Any proposed development shall secure all appropriate stormwater
management related approvals, including, without limitation, an OWR dam safety
permit if required, and other appropriate Federal, State, and regional
approvals prior to the issuance of a stormwater management permit.
      5.   All development undertaken by a unit of local government in the
regulatory floodplain where no regulatory floodway has been designated shall
obtain a permit from OWR or its designee prior to issuance of a stormwater
management permit.
      6.   Any and all proposed development not in a special management area
shall be reviewed under the supervision of a professional engineer meeting the
requirements in this chapter.
      7.   Any and all proposed development within the regulatory floodplain
shall be reviewed under the supervision of a professional engineer meeting the
requirements set forth in this chapter and, in the case of floodway
development, certified by a professional engineer that the proposed development
meets the minimum requirements of this chapter.
      8.   Any and all proposed development in or within one hundred feet
(100') of a wetland shall be reviewed under the supervision of an environmental
scientist meeting the requirements in this chapter and certified by that
environmental scientist that the proposed development meets the minimum
requirement of the Countywide ordinance.
   C.   Applicability; Required Submittals:
      1.   Stormwater Management Permit Required: A stormwater management
permit shall be required if:
         a.   The development involves floodplain, wetlands or buffers; and
         b.   The development does not add more than two thousand five hundred
(2,500) square feet of net new impervious area compared to the predevelopment
conditions. Impervious area is land cover that is nonporous asphalt or asphalt
sealants, nonporous concrete, roofing materials except planted rooftops
designed to reduce runoff, and gravel surfaces used as roadways or parking
lots. Graveled surfaces used for storage of materials may be counted only sixty
percent (60%) impervious provided aggregate gradation has a high porosity.
Ponded water shall be considered impervious area (at its normal water
elevation), but vegetated wetlands or constructed wetland basins shall not be
considered impervious area. The impervious area of a development site
predevelopment is the maximum extent of the impervious surfaces that existed on
the development site at the same time in any of the three (3) years predating
the date of the application.
         c.   The redevelopment disturbs more than five thousand (5,000) square
feet of ground cover, unless the development solely involves one or more of the
following:
            (1)   Cultivation, conservation measures, or gardening; or
            (2)   Installation, renovation, or replacement of a septic system,
potable water service line, or other utility to serve an existing structure; or
            (3)   Excavation or removal of vegetation in rights-of-way or
public utility easements for the purpose of installing or maintaining
utilities; or
            (4)   Maintenance, repair, or at grade replacement of existing lawn
areas not otherwise requiring a stormwater permit under this chapter.
      2.   Additional Submittal Requirements: In addition to the application
requirements, additional submittals shall be required per subsections E through
J of this section.
      3.   Letters Of Permission: Letters of Permission shall comply with the
DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-31.
      4.   General Certifications: General certifications shall comply with the
DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-32.
      5.   Special Cases Of Development: Special cases of development shall
have differing submittal or, technical standards than other developments, as
summarized in table 1 of the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance.
   D.   Stormwater Management Permit Application: The stormwater management
permit application shall include those items required by section 15-47 of the
DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance as well as the
following:
      1.   A general narrative description of the development, including
submittals required pursuant to subsection C2 of this section; and
      2.   Proof of ownership or current contract to purchase or lease the
subject property; and
      3.   Signature of the applicant or the applicant's agent:
         a.   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other
authorized officer shall sign the application form;
         b.   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form;
         c.   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign
the name of the trustee by him (her) as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit
shall be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust
by name and address and defining the respective interests therein;
      4.   A statement of opinion by a qualified professional either denying or
acknowledging the presence of floodplain, floodway, wetlands, and buffers on
the development site, and the appropriate submittals if the statement
acknowledges the presence of floodplain, floodway, wetlands, and buffers; and
      5.   Copies of other permits or permit applications as required; and
      6.   A stormwater submittal; and
      7.   A floodplain submittal, if development is proposed in a floodplain;
and
      8.   A wetland submittal, if development is proposed in a wetland; and
      9.   A riparian buffer submittal, if development is proposed in a
riparian buffer; and
      10.   An engineer's estimate of the construction cost of the stormwater
facilities.
   E.   Submittal Requirements: The stormwater submittal shall include those
items required by section 15-47 of the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and
Floodplain Ordinance as well as the following requirements:
      1.   Stormwater submittal:
         a.   A site stormwater plan;
         b.   Site runoff calculations;
         c.   Site runoff storage calculations and post development discharges
if site runoff storage is required;
         d.   Information describing off site conditions;
         e.   A sediment and erosion control plan;
         f.   Description on how Best Management Practices are incorporated in
the development.
      2.   The site stormwater plan shall include:
         a.   A site topographic map depicting both existing and proposed
contours of the entire site to be disturbed during the development and all
areas one hundred feet (100') beyond the site or as required by the City
Engineer at a scale of at least one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or
less (e.g., 1 inch to 50 feet), with a minimum contour interval of one foot
(1') with accuracy equal to 0.5 foot of elevation;
         b.   A plan view drawing of all existing and proposed stormwater
facilities features, at the same scale as the site topographic map, including
all of the following:
            (1)   Boundaries for watersheds tributary to all significant
stormwater facilities (i.e., channels, bridges, inlets, etc.), along with the
location of such facilities;
            (2)   Major and minor stormwater systems (i.e., stormwater pipes,
culverts, inlets, and storage and infiltration facilities, and flooding limits
under base flood conditions for the major stormwater system);
            (3)   An exhibit at standard engineering scale showing existing and
proposed roadways, structures, parking lots, driveways, sidewalks, and other
impervious surfaces; and
            (4)   The nearest base flood elevations;
         c.   Design details for all proposed stormwater facilities (i.e.,
major and minor stormwater systems, storage basins, and outlet works, etc.);
and
         d.   A scheduled maintenance program for the stormwater facilities,
including:
            (1)   Planned maintenance tasks;
            (2)   Identification of the person or persons responsible for
performing the maintenance tasks as required by subsection
10.109H of this article; and
            (3)   A description of the permanent public access maintenance
easements granted or dedicated to, and accepted by, a governmental entity; and
         e.   A schedule of implementation of the site stormwater plan.
         f.   Upon completion of development, record drawings of the site
stormwater plan shall be submitted to the City Engineer. Such drawings shall be
prepared, signed, and sealed by a land surveyor or professional engineer.
Record drawings shall include the as- constructed size, rim, and invert
elevations of pipes, stormwater structures and culverts, contours, calculations
showing the "as built" volume of compensatory and site runoff storage. Record
drawings are required for all developments that construct stormwater
facilities, or include a wetland, buffer, and/or floodplain onsite.
      3.   The site runoff calculations shall include:
         a.   Profile drawings of the major and minor stormwater systems,
including cross section data for open channels, showing the hydraulic grade
line and water surface elevation under the design and base flood condition; and
         b.   Documentation identifying the procedures, assumptions, and data
used to calculate hydrologic and hydraulic conditions for sizing both major and
minor stormwater systems.
      4.   The site runoff storage calculations shall include:
         a.   Documentation identifying the procedures, assumptions, and data
used to calculate hydrologic and hydraulic conditions and to determine the
allowable release rate and related storage volume; and
         b.   Elevation area storage and elevation discharge data for storage
systems.
      5.   Information describing the offsite conditions shall include
sufficient information to allow evaluation of offsite impacts to and resulting
from the proposed development. Such information shall include:
         a.   A vicinity topographic map covering the entire upstream watershed
that drains to or through the site and the entire watershed downstream to the
point of known or assumed discharge and water surface elevation; and
         b.   A plan view drawing of existing and proposed stormwater
facilities, at the same scale as the vicinity topographic map, including:
            (1)   Watershed boundaries for areas draining through or from the
development;
            (2)   The location of the development within the watershed planning
area; and
            (3)   Soil types, vegetation, and land cover conditions affecting
runoff upstream of the development site for any area draining through or to the
site.
      6.   The sediment and erosion control plan shall conform with the
requirements of subsection 10.105H of this article. The sediment and erosion
control plan shall include:
         a.   A plan and schedule for construction, including site clearing and
grading, placement and maintenance of soil stabilization controls, and sediment
trapping facilities;
         b.   A description of the development, including existing site land
cover and hydrologic conditions, adjacent areas, soil types, permanent and
temporary sediment and erosion control measures, maintenance requirements, and
calculations;
         c.   Plan view drawings or existing and proposed site conditions, at
the same scale as the site stormwater plan, including:
            (1)   Existing contours with drainage patterns and watershed
boundaries;
            (2)   Soil types, vegetation, and land cover conditions;
            (3)   Limits of clearing and grading plans, specifically the extent
of area to be disturbed during the construction of the development;
            (4)   Final contours with locations of drainageways and sediment
and erosion control measures;
         d.   Design details for proposed sediment and erosion control
facilities;
         e.   A copy of the written opinion, when applicable, of the Soil and
Water Conservation District required under 70 Illinois Compiled Statutes 405/
22.02;
         f.   Evidence that the sediment and erosion control installation and
maintenance requirements, including both a list of maintenance tasks and a
performance schedule, are identified and required in the plan specifications;
         g.   Information describing how Best Management Practices are
incorporated into the site design. Such information shall include:
            (1)   A description of Best Management Practices that are
incorporated into the site design and how they will function. Include
applicable design criteria such as soil type, vegetation, and land cover
conditions draining to the Best Management Practice along with appropriate
calculations; and
            (2)   A description of the maintenance requirements.
      7.   A statement from the applicant acknowledging that all stormwater
submittals shall be made available for inspection and copying by the County,
notwithstanding any exemption from inspection and copying for such materials
under the Illinois Freedom of Information Act, upon the written request of
either: a) the applicant; b) any subsequent owner of the subject property; or
c) any governmental unit having planning or drainage jurisdiction within one
and one-half (11/2) miles of the subject property.
   F.   Post Construction Best Management Practice Submittal: The
postconstruction Best Management Practice (PCBMP) submittal shall include those
items outlined in section 15-49 of the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and
Floodplain Ordinance.
   G.   Floodplain Submittal: The floodplain submittal shall include those
items outlined in section 15-51 of the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and
Floodplain Ordinance.
   H.   Wetland And Buffer Impact Submittal: The wetland submittal shall comply
with the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section
15-48 as well as the following requirements, unless the Director concludes
otherwise:
      1.   A characterization of the wetlands as either critical or regulatory;
      2.   A mitigation plan meeting the requirements of subsection
10.106E of this article; and
      3.   A plan for the continued management, operation, and maintenance of
the mitigation measures, including the designation of the person or persons
responsible for long term operation and maintenance and dedicated funding
sources.
   I.   Riparian Buffer Submittal: The riparian buffer submittal shall include:
      1.   An inventory of the functions of the riparian buffers consistent
with the requirements for riparian buffers delineation provided in subsection
10.106H3 of this article.
      2.   A mitigation plan meeting the requirements of subsection
10.106H of this article.
      3.   A plan for continued management, operation, and maintenance of the
mitigation measures, including designation of the person or persons responsible
for long term operation management and dedicated funding sources.
   J.   Soil Erosion And Sediment Control Submittal Requirements: Soil erosion
and sediment control submittals shall comply with the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-50.
   K.   Permit Fees:
      1.   The fees for review, issuance and inspection of the stormwater
management permit and the approved development shall be as follows:
         a.   Deposit for review and issuance: In connection with all
applications, the applicant shall deposit an amount specified in the master fee
schedule.
         b.   Deposit for inspection: In connection with the applications, the
applicant shall deposit an amount specified in the master fee schedule.
      2.   Payments shall be made from the funds deposited to pay the City
Treasury for the costs of City services for the review of the document,
issuance of the permit, and inspection of installation of the stormwater
facilities based on time spent by staff multiplied by the employees' actual
hourly rate or consultants' hourly rate, as the case may be. Additional charges
will be added to offset overhead, burden expense, and the professional fees, if
any, of consultants. In the event the money on deposit is exhausted by such
charges, at its discretion the City may require additional monies to be
deposited.
      3.   An additional charge of twenty five percent (25%) of City staff
charges will be assessed for City administrative and executive services.
      4.   Any fee-in-lieu that is part of the conditions for issuance must be
paid prior to issuance of the permit.
   L.   Duration And Revision To Permit:
      1.   Permits expire December 31 of the third year following the date of
permit issuance.
      2.   If the permitted activity has been started but is not completed by
the expiration date of the permit, and the permittee intends to pursue the
permitted activity, then the permittee may submit a written request that the
expiration date be extended. Upon receipt of such request, the Development
Administrator or his designee may extend the expiration date in maximum
increments of three (3) years for permitted activities outside floodplain,
floodway, wetlands, and buffers. Expiration dates for permitted activities in
floodplain, floodway, wetlands, and buffers may be extended in maximum three
(3) year increments provided the activity is in compliance with the then
current requirements of this chapter.
      3.   If, after permit issuance the permittee decides to revise the
approved plans, the permittee shall submit revised plans to the City Engineer
along with a written request for approval. If the City Engineer determines that
the revised plans are in compliance with the then current requirements of this
chapter, an approval of the revised plans will be issued. (Ord. O-19-023, 7-18-
2019, eff. 7-18-2019)
Sec. 10.108. Prohibited Acts.
   A.   Prohibited acts are indicated in the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-102 in addition to any act in
violation of this chapter. (Ord. O-19-023, 7-18-2019, eff. 7-18-2019)
Sec. 10.109. Performance Security.
   A.   DuPage County Requirements: Performance securities are required in
accordance with the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance section 15-54 as well as the following requirements.
   B.   Responsibility: The developer shall bear the full cost of securing and
maintaining all securities required.
   C.   Development Security:
      1.   The development security shall be in accordance with the DuPage
County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-54.B as well
as the following requirements.
      2.   An irrevocable letter of credit, or such other adequate security as
the Development Administrator or his designee may approve, in an amount
specified in the master fee schedule of the estimated probable cost to complete
the construction of any stormwater facilities required by the stormwater
management permit, which estimated probable cost shall be approved by the
Development Administrator or his designee.
      3.   The security shall be extended to a period not to exceed five (5)
years after completion of construction of all stormwater facilities required by
the permit if the development involves wetland mitigation.
   D.   Sediment And Erosion Control Security:
      1.   The sediment and erosion control security shall be in accordance
with the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section
15-54.C as well as the following requirements.
      2.   If a sediment and erosion control plan is required pursuant to this
chapter, then a sediment and erosion control security shall be required. Such a
security shall include:
         a.   A schedule, agreed upon by the developer and the Development
Administrator or his designee, for the installation, maintenance, and ultimate
removal of sediment and erosion control measures;
         b.   An irrevocable letter of credit, or such other adequate security
as the Development Administrator or his designee shall approve, in an amount
specified in the master fee schedule of the estimated probable cost to install
and maintain the sediment and erosion control measures, which estimated
probable cost shall be approved by the Development Administrator or his
designee of his designee; and
         c.   A statement signed by the applicant that the applicant shall
indemnify the City for any additional costs incurred attributable to concurrent
activities of or conflicts between the applicant's contractor and the City's
remedial contractor at the site.
      3.   The sediment and erosion control security shall not be released
until after the developer files the Notice of Termination (NOT) to IEPA, if
applicable.
   E.   Natural Area Restoration, Wetland And Buffer Mitigation Area Security:
      1.   The natural area restoration, wetland and buffer mitigation area
security shall be in accordance with the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater
and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-54.D as well as the following requirement:
         a.   An irrevocable letter of credit, or such other adequate security
as the Development Administrator or his designee shall approve, in an amount
specified in the master fee schedule of the estimated probable cost to install
and maintain the sediment and erosion control measures, which estimated
probable cost shall be approved by the Development Administrator or his
designee.
   F.   Letter Of Credit:
      1.   The letter of credit shall be in accordance with the DuPage County
Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-54.E as well as the
following requirement:
         a.   Letters of credit posted pursuant to this Code shall be in a form
satisfactory to the City Attorney.
   G.   Long Term Access And Maintenance:
      1.   Long term access and maintenance shall be provided in accordance
with the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section
15-55 as well as the following requirements.
      2.   Included in the dedication shall be a plan for continued management,
operation, and maintenance of the stormwater facility, including designation of
the person or persons responsible for long term operational management and
dedicated funding sources.
      3.   If title to the land underlying site runoff storage areas with
access and maintenance areas and stormwater facilities is conveyed by agreement
to lots in the subdivision, then:
         a.   Subdivision property owners shall establish a property owners'
association;
         b.   The proposed property owners' association bylaws and declaration
shall provide for a long-term maintenance agreement establishing:
            (1)   Title to the site runoff storage areas and stormwater
facilities to assure that each lot owner is responsible for a share of the cost
of maintenance;
            (2)   Payment of real estate Property Taxes for such areas to
assure that site runoff storage areas and stormwater facilities are not sold to
satisfy delinquent taxes; and
            (3)   Methods of perpetual maintenance, to assure that the
standards of the plan for the site runoff storage areas and stormwater
facilities are met. Maintenance methods shall be approved by the City Engineer.
      4.   If title to the land underlying the site runoff storage areas with
access and maintenance areas and stormwater facilities is conveyed by the plat
to a public entity, then:
         a.   The face of the plat shall provide, if necessary, that an
easement for public access for construction and maintenance purposes is
reserved to the public entity; and
         b.   The public entity shall accept the dedication of the site runoff
storage areas and stormwater facilities and provide for their maintenance,
including capital expenses for repair and replacement.
      5.   If title to the land underlying the site runoff storage areas and
stormwater facilities is conveyed by the plat to the owner of the land, the
face of the plat shall then:
         a.   Provide an easement for access, inspection, and maintenance
purposes reserved to the City over the stormwater management plan for the area
in which the property is located; and
         b.   The applicant shall record a covenant against title stating that
in the event the governmental unit having easement rights exercises its right
to perform maintenance to site runoff storage facilities and storm sewers on
that property, that governmental unit may lien the property for the costs of
any maintenance work performed.
         c.   Provide the maintenance responsibilities including the schedule
of perpetual maintenance, repair and replacement; and
         d.   Stipulate an agreed right of the governmental unit having local
jurisdiction over the stormwater management plan for the area in which the
property is located to come onto the property upon thirty (30) days' written
notice to correct any condition which causes the site runoff storage area not
to function as hydraulically and hydrologically planned, and to demand payment
for such costs or to place a lien against the property for the value of those
costs.
      6.   All access and maintenance rights granted shall run with the land
and survive title transfers. (Ord. O-19-023, 7-18-2019, eff. 7-18-2019)
Sec. 10.110. Enforcement And Penalties.
   A.   DuPage County Requirements: Enforcement and penalties shall be as
indicated in the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance
sections 15-103 and 15-105 as well as the following requirements.
   B.   Inspections: Required inspections shall be in accordance with the
DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-20.
   C.   Notice Of Violations:
      1.   Notice of Violations shall be issued by the Development
Administrator or his designee and be in accordance with the DuPage County
Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-104 as well as the
following requirements.
      2.   Mailed notices shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested
to the person, firm, or corporation responsible for the unlawful act or
omission or condition.
      3.   The Notice of Violation shall state the nature of the alleged
violation and shall fix a date not less than ten (10) days after the date of
the notice when the parcel or development will be reinspected. If the condition
is not corrected upon reinspection, then, in addition to other remedies, the
proper authorities of the City may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings in the City's Administrative Adjudication System or the Circuit
Court to restrain, correct, or abate such violation and to request the issuance
of any applicable fines.
   D.   Revocation Of Permits: Revocation of permits shall be performed by the
Development Administrator or his designee and be in accordance with the DuPage
County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-107.
   E.   Stop Work Order:
      1.   All stop work orders shall be issued by the Development
Administrator or his designee and shall be in accordance with the DuPage County
Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-108 as well as the
following requirements.
      2.   In addition to posting the stop work order, it shall also be
delivered by certified mail, return receipt requested, the permit holder and to
the owner, or adult resident, occupant, leaser, manager, or maintainer of the
property or his or her agent, the person, firm, or corporation responsible for
the unlawful act or omission or condition which forms the basis for the
violation.
      3.   The stop work order shall state the conditions under which the
subject development may be resumed.
   F.   Fines:
      1.   All fines shall be in accordance with the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-109 as well as the following
requirements.
      2.   The minimum fine shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) and the
maximum fine shall be seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
      3.   Each day that any violation of any regulation contained in the
DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance and/or this
chapter has been determined to exist or has been permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
   G.   Special Flood Hazard Areas: Additional remedies for special flood
hazard areas shall be in accordance with the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-110, as well as section 15-111
for Legal And Equitable Relief and section 15-112 for Injunctive Relief. (Ord.
O-19-023, 7-18-2019, eff. 7-18-2019)
Sec. 10.111. Appeals.
   A.   Appeals to this chapter shall be in accordance with the DuPage County
Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-114 as well as the
following requirements.
   B.   Any person directly aggrieved by any decision, order, requirement, or
determination of the City Engineer made pursuant to an interpretation of this
chapter shall have the right to appeal such action directly to the Community
Development Commission in accordance with this chapter; provided, however, that
all decisions made by the City Engineer pursuant to section
10.110 of this article shall be deemed final and not appealable, except as
otherwise specifically provided in this chapter.
   C.   Public hearings shall commence not fewer than fifteen (15) days nor
more than thirty (30) days after the date of publication of a properly prepared
notice of appeal. (Ord. O-19-023, 7-18-2019, eff. 7-18-2019)
Sec. 10.112. Variances.
   A.   Variance procedures shall be in accordance with the DuPage County
Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance chapter XVI (sections 15-117
thru 15-119) as well as the following requirements.
   B.   Variance petitions filed shall also include proof of ownership or
current contract to purchase or lease the subject property.
   C.   Variance petitions shall be filed with the Development Administrator or
his designee who shall forward a copy thereof to the City Engineer.
   D.   When a variance from the requirements of this chapter would lessen the
degree of protection to a structure, the City Engineer shall notify the
applicant that the variance, if granted, may result in increased rates for
flood insurance. (Ord. O-19-023, 7-18-2019, eff. 7-18-2019)
Sec. 10.113. Miscellaneous Provisions.
   A.   Public Hearings: When the provisions of this chapter require a public
hearing, such process shall comply with the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater
and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-139.
   B.   Severability: The severability provisions shall apply per the DuPage
County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-140.
   C.   Most Restrictive Provisions Apply: Interpretations shall be made per
the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-
141.
   D.   Amendments: The amendment provisions shall apply per the DuPage County
Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance section 15-142.
   E.   Additional References: All tables, appendices, flow charts, exhibits,
and schedules in the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance are incorporated herein. (Ord. O-19-023, 7-18-2019, eff. 7-18-2019)
CHAPTER 12
BUILDING CODE
ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12.101. Title
12.102. Purpose
12.103. Application Of References
12.104. Applicability
12.105. Definitions
12.106. Installation Of Service Equipment
12.107. Existing Structures
12.108. Validity
Sec. 12.101. Title.
These regulations shall be known as the BUILDING CODE OF THE CITY OF WOOD DALE
hereinafter referred to as "this chapter". (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.102. Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the safety, health and public
welfare through structural strength and stability, means of egress, sanitary
equipment, light and ventilation, and protection of life and property from fire
and hazards incidental to the design, construction, alteration, removal,
demolition or use and occupancy of buildings, structures and property. This
chapter sets forth requirements which are considered reasonable and are held in
every instance to be the minimum for the promotion of public health, safety and
the general welfare. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.103. Application Of References.
Unless otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, all references to
article or section numbers, or to provisions not specifically identified by
number, shall be construed to refer to such article, section or provision of
this chapter. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.104. Applicability.
   A.   General: These regulations shall control all matters concerning the
construction, alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition, use, location,
occupancy and maintenance of all buildings and structures, and shall apply to
existing or proposed buildings and structures in the City of Wood Dale; except
as such matters are otherwise provided for in other ordinances or statutes, or
in the rules and regulations authorized for promulgation under the provisions
of this chapter.
   B.   Matters Not Provided For: Any requirements essential for structural,
fire or sanitary safety of an existing or proposed building or structure, or
essential for the safety of the occupants thereof and which is not specifically
covered by this chapter, shall be determined by the building official.
   C.   Continuation Of Unlawful Use: The initial or continued occupancy or use
of a building or structure, or of a part thereof, contrary to the provisions of
this chapter or
chapters 4 and
17 of this Code, shall be deemed a violation and subject to the penalties
prescribed in article VII of this chapter.
   D.   Other Regulations: When the provisions contained in this chapter
conflict with any other provisions contained in this Code or in any State or
Federal Statute, the most restrictive or rigid provisions shall control.
   E.   Exemptions: Maintenance and ordinary repairs to structures may be made
without application or notice to the building official; but such repairs shall
not include cutting away of any wall, partition, or portion thereof, the
removal or cutting of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or
change of any required means of egress, or the rearrangement of parts of a
structure affecting the exitway requirements; nor shall ordinary repairs
include the addition to, alteration of, replacement or relocation of any
standpipe, water supply, sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas, soil, waste, vent
or similar piping, electrical wiring or mechanical or other work affecting the
public health or general safety. The replacement of windows is not considered
an ordinary repair under this exemption. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.105. Definitions.
Whenever in this chapter the following words and phrases are used, they shall,
for the purposes of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this section, except when the context otherwise indicates or an
alternate definition is provided or referenced. Words and terms not defined
herein shall be defined as specified in the applicable adopted International
Code Council code.
APPLICANT: The person applying for a permit.
BOARD: The Building Code Board of Appeals.
BUILDING CODE: The regulations contained within this chapter.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The individual designated to enforce this chapter, or his or
her designee.
CITY: The City of Wood Dale.
CITY ENGINEER: As defined in chapter 17 of this Code.
COMMERCIAL BUILDING: A building constructed in accordance with the
International Building Code as adopted in article III of this chapter.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Wood Dale.
DANGEROUS FOUNDATION: Any manmade structure, or excavation containing an
accumulation of water, or any structure or excavation that is accessible to the
public and poses a life safety hazard.
DECORATIVE FACING: A finished exterior surface on a structure other than
unfinished concrete block. Painted concrete block shall be considered
unfinished. Provided, fluted, split faced and pre-stained concrete block, shall
be considered a decorative facing.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT: The City of Wood Dale Community
Development Department.
DIRECTOR: The Director of Community Development of the City of Wood Dale.
GROSS FLOOR AREA: As defined in
chapter 17 of this Code.
LEGAL COUNSEL, LEGAL OFFICER, OR LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE: The City Attorney for
the City of Wood Dale.
LOT COVERAGE: As defined in
chapter 17 of this Code.
MASONRY: Masonry materials shall include brick and stone material,
architectural block, textured concrete masonry units (CMUs), precast concrete
panels that are textured or have a brick finish.
MUNICIPAL CODE: The City of Wood Dale Municipal Code.
PERMITTEE: The person having been issued a permit.
PHYSICAL VALUE: The value of the structure as assessed by the most recent tax
assessment multiplied by 3.3 or, alternatively, as determined by an appraisal
of the structure.
REMODELING: Any material change to the exterior structure or appearance of a
structure.
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING: A building or structure constructed in accordance with
the International Residential Code, except as defined and regulated in the
International Energy Conservation Code as adopted in article III of this
chapter.
RUBBISH: As defined in
chapter 6, article III of this Code.
STRUCTURE: As defined in
chapter 17 of this Code.
ZONING LOT: As defined in
chapter 17 of this Code. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.106. Installation Of Service Equipment.
When the installation, extension, alteration or repair of an elevator, moving
stairway, mechanical equipment, refrigeration, air conditioning or ventilating
apparatus, plumbing, gas piping, electric wiring, heating system or any other
equipment is specifically controlled by the provisions of this chapter, it
shall be unlawful to use such equipment until a final inspection has been
completed and approved by the building official or other agency having
jurisdiction. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.107. Existing Structures.
   A.   Application: Except as provided in this section, existing structures,
when altered or repaired as herein specified, shall be made to conform to the
full requirements of this chapter for new structures.
   B.   Alterations Exceeding Fifty Percent: Within any twelve (12) month
period if alterations or repairs are made costing in excess of fifty percent
(50%) of the physical value of the structure, this chapter's requirements for
new structures shall apply.
   C.   Damages Exceeding Fifty Percent: If the structure is damaged by fire or
any other cause to an extent in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the physical
value of the structure before the damage was incurred, this chapter's
requirements for new structures shall apply.
   D.   Increase In Size: If the structure is increased in floor area or number
of stories, the entire structure shall be made to conform with the requirements
of this chapter in respect to means of egress, fire safety, light and
ventilation, and construction.
   E.   Use:
      1.   Continuation Of Existing Use: The legal use and occupancy of a
structure existing or for which it had been heretofore approved, may be
continued in accordance with
chapters 4 and
17 of this Code.
      2.   Change In Use: It shall be unlawful to make any change in use or
occupancy of any structure as a whole or in part without compliance with this
chapter and the applicable provisions of
chapters 4 and
17 of this Code.
      3.   Part Change In Use: If a portion of the structure is changed in
occupancy or to a new use group and that portion is separated from the
remainder of the structure with the required vertical and horizontal fire
divisions then the construction involved in the change shall be made to conform
to the requirements for the new use and occupancy, and the existing portion
shall be made to comply with the exitway, fire protection, electrical and
plumbing requirements of this chapter. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.108. Validity.
   A.   Partial Invalidity: In the event any part or provision of this chapter
is held to be illegal or void, this shall not have the effect of making void or
illegal any of the other parts or provisions thereof which may or shall be
determined to be legal; and it shall be presumed that this chapter would have
been passed without such illegal or invalid parts or provisions.
   B.   Segregation Of Invalid Provisions: Any invalid part of this chapter
shall be segregated from the remainder of this chapter by the court holding
such part invalid, and the remainder shall remain effective. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-
19-2018)
ARTICLE II
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
12.201. General Provisions
12.202. Office Of The Building Official
12.203. Building Code Board Of Appeals
12.204. Mayor And City Council
Sec. 12.201. General Provisions.
The administration and enforcement of this chapter is hereby vested in the
following:
   A.   The office of the building official;
   B.   The Building Code Board of Appeals; and
   C.   The Mayor and City Council. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.202. Office Of The Building Official.
The office of the building official shall refer to the Community Development
Department and the building official shall be the Director of Community
Development.
   A.   Appointment: The building official shall be appointed by the City
Manager.
   B.   Organization: The building official shall appoint such number of
officers, technical assistants, inspectors and other employees as shall be
necessary for the administration of this chapter and as authorized by the City
Manager.
   C.   Deputy: The building official may designate an employee as his deputy
who shall exercise all the powers of the building official during the temporary
absence or disability of the building official.
   D.   Qualifications: The building official shall have building experience,
including knowledge of Municipal codes and shall hold such certifications as
required by the City Manager.
   E.   Restriction Of Employees: An official or employee connected with the
Community Development Department, except one whose only connection is that of a
member of the Board of Appeals established under the provisions of chapter 3,
article II of this Code, shall not be engaged in or directly or indirectly
connected with the furnishing of labor, materials or appliances for the
construction, alteration or maintenance of a building or the preparation of
plans or of specifications therefor, unless he is the owner of the building;
nor shall such officer or employee engage in any work which conflicts with his
official duties or with the interests of the department.
   F.   Liability: The building official, member of the Board of Appeals, or
employee charged with the enforcement of this chapter, while acting for the
City in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required
by this Code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered
liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability, and
accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted in
the discharge of his duties and under the provisions of this chapter; and any
officer of the Community Development Department, acting in good faith and
without malice, shall be free from liability for acts performed under any of
its provisions or by reason of any act or omission in the performance of his
official duties in connection therewith. Any suit instituted against an officer
or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in the
lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this Code shall be
defended by legal representation of the City until the final termination of the
proceedings. The building official or any subordinate shall not be liable for
cost in any action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the
provisions of this Code.
   G.   Official Records: An official record shall be kept of all business and
activities of the Community Development Department specified in the provisions
of this chapter, and all such records shall be open to public inspection at all
appropriate times.
   H.   Duties Of The Building Official:
      1.   General: The building official or duly appointed designee shall
enforce all the provisions of this chapter and shall act on any question
relative to the mode or manner of construction and the materials to be used in
the erection, addition to, alteration, repair, removal, demolition,
installation of service equipment and the location, use, occupancy, and
maintenance of all buildings and structures, except as may otherwise be
specifically provided for by statutory requirements, other local ordinances or
as provided in subsections H2 through H8 of this section.
      2.   Applications And Permits: The building official or duly appointed
designee shall receive and process permit applications and inspect the premises
for which such permits have been issued and enforce compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Building Notices And Orders: The building official or duly appointed
designee shall issue all necessary notices or orders to remove illegal or
unsafe conditions, to require the necessary safeguards during construction, to
require adequate exit way facilities in existing buildings and structures and
to ensure compliance with all this chapter's requirements for the safety,
health and general welfare of the public.
      4.   Rule Making Authority: The building official or duly appointed
designee shall have power as may be necessary in the interest of the public
safety, health and general welfare, to render interpretations of this chapter
and to adopt policies and procedures to clarify the application of its
provisions, which shall be in compliance with the intent of this chapter but
shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided herein.
      5.   Inspections: The building official or duly appointed designee shall
make all the required inspections or may accept reports of inspection by
authoritative and recognized services or individuals; and all reports of such
inspections shall be in writing and certified by a responsible officer of such
authoritative service or by the responsible individual; or he may engage such
expert opinion as he may deem necessary to report upon issues that may arise.
      6.   Credentials: The building official or duly appointed designee shall
carry proper credentials of this respective office for the purpose of
inspecting any and all buildings and premises in the performance of his duties
under this chapter.
      7.   Identification: The building official or duly appointed designee
shall carry proper identification when inspecting structures or premises in the
performance of duties under this chapter.
      8.   Annual Report: At least annually, the building official shall submit
to the City Manager a written statement of operations in the form and content
as shall be prescribed by such authority.
      9.   Research And Investigations: The building official shall make or
cause to be made the investigations of new developments in the building
industry; accredit tests meeting the functional requirements of this chapter
conducted by accredited authoritative agencies listed in the Building Code or
he may accept duly authenticated reports from recognized authoritative sources
of all new materials and methods of construction proposed for use which are not
specifically provided for in this chapter. Materials or installation practices
that do not perform as specified due to local conditions may be excluded from
approved materials and equipment list. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.203. Building Code Board Of Appeals.
The Building Code Board of Appeals has the primary responsibility to conduct
public hearings on matters related to this chapter in accordance with chapter 3
of this Code and article VIII of this chapter. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.204. Mayor And City Council.
Without limiting any authority granted to the Mayor and City Council by State
law or by other ordinances of the City, the Mayor and City Council shall have
the power and duty to determine whether or not to adopt amendments to the text
of this chapter. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE III
ADOPTION OF CODES
SECTION:
12.301. Adoption
Sec. 12.301. Adoption.
There is hereby adopted by reference as the Building Code for the City of Wood
Dale, the following codes, one copy of such regulations in book form is on file
in the City Clerk's Office for public use, inspection and examination.
   A.   International Building Code - 2012 edition with amendments pursuant to
article IV of this chapter.
   B.   International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings - 2012
edition with amendments pursuant to article IV of this chapter.
   C.   International Fire Code - 2012 edition with amendments pursuant to
article IV of this chapter.
   D.   National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 101 - 2012 edition.
   E.   International Mechanical Code - 2012 edition with amendments pursuant
to article IV of this chapter.
   F.   International Fuel Gas Code - 2012 edition with amendments pursuant to
article IV of this chapter.
   G.   International Property Maintenance Code - 2012 edition with amendments
pursuant to article IV of this chapter.
   H.   National Electrical Code - 2014 edition with amendments pursuant to
article IV of this chapter.
   I.   Illinois Plumbing Code - 2014 edition with amendments pursuant to
article IV of this chapter.
   J.   International Energy Conservation Code - 2015 edition, as adopted and
amended by the State of Illinois with amendments pursuant to article IV of this
chapter.
   K.   Illinois Accessibility Code (71 IAC 400), as amended from time to time.
   L.   Illinois Radon Resistant Construction Act 1 , as amended from time to
time.
   M.   Illinois Elevator Safety and Regulation Act 2 , as amended from time to
time.
   N.   Illinois Smoke Detector Act 3 , as amended from time to time.
   O.   Illinois Carbon Monoxide Alarm Detector Act 4 , as amended from time to
time. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 420 ILCS 52.
2 1. 225 ILCS 312.
3 2. 425 ILCS 60.
4 3. 430 ILCS 135.
ARTICLE IV
CODE AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
12.401. General Provisions
12.402. International Building Code Amendments
12.403. International Residential Code Amendments
12.404. International Fire Code Amendments
12.405. International Mechanical Code Amendments
12.406. International Fuel Gas Code Amendments
12.407. International Property Maintenance Code Amendments
12.408. National Electrical Code Amendments
12.409. Illinois Plumbing Code Amendments
12.410. International Energy Conservation Code Amendments
Sec. 12.401. General Provisions.
   A.   New buildings, reconstructions, and replacements of existing structures
requiring building permits shall be required to be constructed with a surface
treatment which provides visual interest and architectural detailing. The
application of these materials required shall be as follows, or as approved by
the building official:
      1.   Multi-Family Residential: Multi-family dwelling units shall contain
a minimum of eighty five percent (85%) of brick or stone material on the entire
structure excluding gables, dormers, openings for windows and doors and
associated trim.
      2.   Commercial Properties: In addition to being required to have
exterior walls be of masonry construction, commercial buildings shall contain a
minimum of eighty five percent (85%) of brick, stone, or approved masonry
materials, or any combination thereof on all exterior walls excluding gables,
dormers, and openings for windows and doors as a surface treatment. Smooth
faced concrete units are allowed on the side and rear elevations of any
commercial property if the side and rear elevations are not visible from a
public right-of-way.
      3.   Industrial Properties: Commercial buildings on industrially zoned
properties shall contain a minimum of twenty five percent (25%) of brick,
stone, or approved masonry materials, or any combination thereof on all
exterior walls excluding openings for windows, doors and associated trim.
Smooth faced concrete units are allowed on the side and rear elevations of any
industrial property if the side and rear elevations are not visible from a
public right-of-way. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.402. International Building Code Amendments.
The deletions from and modifications and amendments to the 2012 International
Building Code are as follows:
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Section 101.1 Title delete section and replace with:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Building Code of the City
of Wood Dale, hereinafter referred to as "this code".
Section 101.4.3. Plumbing delete section and replace with:
101.4.3 Plumbing. The provisions of the State of Illinois Plumbing Code as
adopted and amended by the City of Wood Dale shall apply to the installation,
alteration, repair and replacement of plumbing systems including equipment,
appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances, and where connected to a
water sewage system and all aspects of a medical gas system.
Section 102.6 Existing Structures delete section in its entirety.
Section 103 Department of Building Safety delete section in its entirety.
Section 104 Duties and Powers of the Building Official
Section 104.1 through Section 104.8 delete these sections in their entirety.
Section 104.10.1 Flood hazard areas delete section in its entirety
Section 105 Permits delete section in its entirety.
Section 107.2.5.1 Design flood elevations delete section in its entirety.
Section 109 Fees delete section in its entirety.
Section 110 Inspections delete section in its entirety.
Section 111 Certificate of Occupancy delete section in its entirety.
Section 113 Board of Appeals delete section in its entirety.
Section 114 Violations delete section in its entirety.
Section 115 Stop Work Order delete section in its entirety.
Section 116 Unsafe Structures delete section in its entirety.
Chapter 2 Definitions
Section 201.4 Terms not Defined delete section and replace with:
201.4. Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies or the definition in the current version of the
Merriam-Webster Dictionary shall be applied.
Chapter 6 Types of Construction
Section 601.2 add section:
601.2. Tenant and Dwelling Unit fire resistance rating separation. All
assemblies which separate tenants in the same building shall maintain a minimum
of one hour fire- resistance rated construction. When the assemblies are for
residential use, a minimum of two hour rating will be required.
Chapter 7 Fire and Smoke Protection Features
Section 707.3.11 add section:
707.3.11. Tenant and Dwelling Unit fire resistance rating separation. All walls
which separate tenants in the same building shall maintain a minimum of one
hour fire- resistance rated construction. When the building contains
residential uses, a minimum of two hour rating will be required.
Section 711.3.4 add section:
711.3.4 Tenant and Dwelling Unit fire resistance rating separation. All floors
which separate tenants in the same building shall maintain a minimum of one
hour fire- resistance rated construction. When the building contains
residential uses, a minimum of two hour rating will be required.
Chapter 11 Accessibility
Chapter 11 delete Chapter, see the State of Illinois Accessibility Code.
Chapter 15 Roof Assemblies and Rooftop Structures
Section 1503.4.1 Secondary (emergency overflow) drains or scuppers delete the
words "and Sections 1106 and 1108, as applicable, of the International Plumbing
Code" and replace with:
State of Illinois Plumbing Code as adopted and amended by the City of Wood
Dale.
Chapter 16 Structural Design
Section 1612.3 Establishment of flood hazard areas delete section and replace
with:
1612.3 Establishment of flood hazard areas. To establish flood hazard areas,
local flooding data shall apply.
Chapter 23 Wood
Section 2303.1.2 add section:
Floor/roof assemblies utilizing wood I-joists or similar products shall be
required to be protected with a minimum 1 hour UL fire-resistance design or its
equivalent.
Section 2303.4.1 add section:
Floor/roof assemblies utilizing wood trusses or similar products shall be
required to be protected with a minimum 1 hour UL fire-resistance design or its
equivalent.
Section 2303.8 add section:
Any structure, including structures existing on the date of adoption of this
code, utilizing trusses with stamped plate connectors for structural framing
shall have an identifying sign with minimum dimensions of eight inches (8") by
eight inches (8"), permanently installed at an approved location for emergency
responder notification of the use of those materials.
Chapter 29 Plumbing Systems
Chapter 29 delete Chapter in its entirety, see the State of Illinois Plumbing
Code as adopted and amended by the City of Wood Dale.
Chapter 30 Elevators and Conveying Systems
Section 3001.2 Referenced Standards delete section and replace with:
3001.2 Referenced Standards. The design, construction, installation,
alteration, repair and maintenance of elevators and conveying systems and their
components shall conform to the State of Illinois Elevator Safety and
Regulation Act and to the state mandated elevator codes as determined by the
office of the state fire marshal, division of elevator safety.
Section 3001.3 Accessibility delete section and replace with:
3001.3 Accessibility. Passenger elevators shall conform to the requirements of
the State of Illinois Accessibility Code.
Chapter 32 Encroachments into the Public Right-Of-Way
Chapter 32 delete Chapter in its entirety.
Chapter 33 Safeguards during Construction
Section 3305.1 Facilities required delete section and replace with:
3305.1 Facilities required. Sanitary facilities shall be provided during
construction, remodeling or demolition activities in accordance with the State
of Illinois Plumbing Code and Chapter 7 of the City of Wood Dale Municipal
Code.
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.403. International Residential Code Amendments.
The deletions from and modifications and amendments to the 2012 International
Residential Code are as follows:
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Section R101.1 Title delete section and replace with:
R101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Residential Code for One
and Two Family dwellings of the City of Wood Dale, and shall be cited as such
and will hereinafter be referred to as "this code".
Section R101.2 Scope delete the words "Section P2904" in Exceptions #1 and #2
and replace with "International Fire Code as adopted by the City of Wood Dale".
Section R102.4.3. Illinois Plumbing Code Is amended by adding thereto the
following:
R102.4.3. Illinois Plumbing Code. Whenever a reference is made to the
International Plumbing Code, refer to the applicable section of the current
State of Illinois Plumbing Code as adopted and amended by the City of Wood
Dale.
Section R103 Department of Building Safety delete section in its entirety.
Section R104.1 through R104.8 delete sections in their entirety.
Sections R104.10.1 Flood Hazard Areas delete section in its entirety.
Section R105 Permits delete section in its entirety.
Section R106.1.3 Information for construction in flood hazard areas delete
section in its entirety.
Section R106.3.1 Approval of Construction documents delete section in its
entirety.
Section R108 Fees delete section in its entirety.
Section R109 Inspections delete section in its entirety.
Section R110 Certificate of Occupancy delete section in its entirety.
Section R112 Board of Appeals delete section in its entirety.
Section R113 Violations delete section in its entirety.
Section R114 Stop Work Order delete section in its entirety.
Chapter 3 Building Planning
Table R301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria is amended by adding:
Table R301.2 (1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
Ground Snow Load- 25 psf
Wind Design Speed- 115 mph
Wind Topographic Effects- none
Wind Borne Debris Zone- none
Seismic Design Category- A
Subject to Damage from Weathering- severe
Frost Line Depth- 42"
Termite- moderate to heavy
Winter Design Temperature- -4 degrees F
Ice Barrier Underlayment- yes
Flood Hazards- Chapter 17, Article VIII of the City of Wood Dale Municipal Code
Air Freezing Index- 1750
Mean Annual Temperature- 48.19 degrees F
Section R302.1 Exterior Walls delete the words "Section P2904" and replace with
"National Fire Code as adopted by the City of Wood Dale".
Section R302.2 Townhouses delete section and replace with:
R302.2 Townhouses. Each townhouse shall be a separate building and
independently owned and independently occupied from adjoining townhouses. Each
townhouse shall be separated by a minimum of a UL rated two hour fire-resistant
rated wall assembly or its equivalent. The rated separation wall shall not
contain plumbing or mechanical equipment, ducts or vents, in the cavity. All
electrical in the rated separation wall shall be installed with the 2011 NEC
penetrations of electrical boxes and shall be in accordance with section
R302.4.
Exception: A one hour fire separation wall shall be permitted only if both
townhouse units are equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system
installed in accordance with NFPA 13.
Section R302.2.2 Parapets #3 delete the words "a 1-hour fire- resistant rating"
and replace with "the fire-resistance rating of the required separation wall".
Section R302.2.4 Structural independence Exception #5 delete in its entirety.
Section R302.3 Two Family dwellings Exceptions #1 and #2 delete in their
entirety.
Section R302.5.2 Duct penetration add the following:
All Ductwork shall be covered with a minimum of 5/8 inch gypsum board.
Section R302.6 Dwelling/garage fire separation delete all references of "1/
2 inch" and replace with "5/8 inch".
Section R302.7 Under stair protection delete the words "1/2 inch" and replace
with "5/8 inch".
Section R305.1 Minimum height add exception #3
R305.1 Exceptions:
3. Crawl spaces shall have a minimum clear height of 36 inches from the top of
the slush coat to the bottom of the floor joists or other ceiling finishes.
Section R309.1 Floor surface delete section and replace with:
R309.1.1 Gas curb. The Garage surface shall be a minimum of 6 inches below the
adjacent top of the foundation for the common walls with the living space. A 6
inch high by 4 inch wide concrete gas curb may be poured against the common
wall in lieu of the 6 inch difference in elevation.
Exception: existing garage slabs.
Section R309.5 Fire sprinklers delete section in its entirety.
Section R313 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems delete section and replace with:
Section R313 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems. An automatic residential fire
sprinkler system may be installed in townhomes and one and two family
dwellings. All automatic residential fire sprinkler systems must be installed
in accordance with NFPA 13.
Section R319.1 Address numbers delete section and replace with:
Section R319.1 Address numbers. Buildings shall have approved address numbers,
building numbers or approved building identification mounted on the structure
and placed in a position that is plainly legible and visible from the street or
road fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
Address numbers shall be Arabic numbers and a minimum of 6 inches high with a
minimum stroke width of 1/2 inch. Where access is by means of private road or
the building address cannot be viewed from the public right of way, an
additional address will be posted on a monument, pole or other sign or means to
identify the structure.
Chapter 4 Foundations
Section R401.1 Application delete the last sentence of the section and delete
the exception.
Sections R402.1 Wood foundations through Section R402.1.2 Wood treatment delete
sections in their entirety.
Section R403.1 General delete the words "fully grouted masonry, crushed stone
footings, wood foundations".
Figure R403.1(2) and Figure R403.1(3) delete the figures in their entirety.
Section R403.1.1 Minimum size delete the words "masonry footings" and "Footings
for wood foundations shall be in accordance with the details set forth in
Section R403.2, and Figures R403.1(2) and R403.1(3)".
Section R403.1.1 Minimum size add section:
Section R403.1.1.1 Screen Rooms and Three Season Room Foundations. Screen
rooms, three season rooms and decks or porches with roofs larger than 25 square
feet in floor area shall be supported on a minimum of an 8 inch wide continuous
frost depth trench foundation. Alternate foundation designs, as approved by the
Building Official, shall be designed and sealed by a State of Illinois licensed
design professional.
Section R403.1.1 Minimum size add section:
Section R403.1.1.2. Exterior Stairs and Stoop Foundations. All exterior stairs
and landings, when constructed of concrete, stone or masonry shall be supported
on a minimum of an 8 inch wide wing wall that is tied with reinforcing to the
main foundation or 8 inch diameter piers excavated below frost depth. Alternate
foundation designs, as approved by the Building Official, shall be designed and
sealed by a State of Illinois licensed design professional.
Sections R403.2 Footings for wood foundations through Section R403.3 Frost-
protected shallow foundations delete sections in their entirety.
Section R404.1.6 Height above finished grade delete the words "4 inches" and
replace with "6 inches".
Section R404.2 Wood foundations walls delete section in its entirety.
Section R405.2.3 Drainage Systems delete the words "into an approved sewer
system or to daylight" and replace with "into a minimum 4 inch underground
rigid pipe and be directly connected to storm sewers in cases where a storm
sewer is designed to accept this discharge and approved by the Public Works
Director".
Chapter 5 Floors
Section R502.11 Wood Trusses add section:
Section R502.11.14 Protection of engineered lumber. All wood floor trusses and
engineered wood floor joists, beams, girders and the like shall be covered with
a minimum of 5/8 inch type X fire code gypsum board on the underside.
Section R506.1 General delete section and replace with:
R506.1 General. Concrete slab on grade floors and exterior slabs shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with the provisions of this section or
ACI 332. Concrete floors shall be a minimum of 4 inches thick for expansive
soils. All crawl spaces shall have a minimum of a 2 inch slush coat installed.
Chapter 7 Wall Covering
Section R702.3.1 Materials add section:
Section R702.3.1.1 Required Thickness. All new structures, additions or
substantially remodeled residential occupancies shall use 5/8 inch gypsum
board.
Chapter 8 Roof-Ceiling Construction
Section R802.10 Wood Trusses add section:
Section R802.10.5 Protection of engineered lumber. All wood floor trusses and
engineered wood floor joists, beams, girders and the like shall be covered with
a minimum of 5/8 inch type X fire code gypsum board on the underside.
Chapter 9 Roof Assemblies
Section R903.4 Roof Drainage add section:
Section R903.4.2 Gutters and Downspouts. Gutters and downspouts shall be
installed on all dwelling units and accessory structures that contain 400
square feet or more of exterior floor space. Downspouts shall discharge on the
owner's property and not extend more than 50% into any front or rear yard and
directed so as to not create a nuisance to the adjoining properties or public
sidewalks and rights of way.
Chapter 11 Energy Efficiency delete chapter in its entirety, see International
Energy Conservation Code as adopted by the State of Illinois and the City of
Wood Dale.
Chapter 12 Mechanical through Chapter 23 delete chapters in their entirety, see
the International Mechanical Code as adopted by the City of Wood Dale.
Chapter 24 Fuel Gas delete chapter in its entirety, see the International Fuel
Gas Code as adopted by the City of Wood Dale.
Chapter 25 Plumbing through Chapter 33 Storm Drainage delete chapters in their
entirety, see the Illinois Plumbing Code as adopted by the City of Wood Dale.
Chapter 34 Electrical through Chapter 43 Class Remote-Control, Signaling and
Power-Limited Circuits delete chapters in their entirety, see the National
Electrical Code as adopted by the City of Wood Dale.
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.404. International Fire Code Amendments.
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   References To Fire Official: Whenever a reference is made to the
fire official, such reference shall be deemed to refer to the building
official.
      2.   References To Department Of Fire Prevention: Whenever a reference is
made to the Department of Fire Prevention, such reference shall be deemed to
refer to the office of the building official.
      3.   Exit Facilities: Exit facilities shall be provided in conformance
with the applicable requirements of NFPA 101 and shall be evidence that such
installations are reasonably safe to persons and property.
      4.   Panic Hardware: Panic hardware shall be provided where required on
all common exit doors except those buildings servicing six (6) or less dwelling
units. Panic hardware shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 101.
      5.   Smoke Barrier Partitions: Corridors shall be divided with approved
smoke barrier doors of noncombustible construction and Class C labeled with
automatic self-closing devices provided in corridors over one hundred fifty
feet (150') long.
   B.   Enforcement Of Code: In the event that the Wood Dale Fire Protection
District fails to enforce provisions comparable to those adopted in this
article, it shall be the duty of the building official to enforce this article.
If such is the case the building official shall have the power to promulgate
rules which are conferred upon the Chief of the Wood Dale Fire Protection
District. Enforcement and promulgation rights of the City shall be pursuant to
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes and 70 Illinois Compiled Statutes 705/11.
   C.   Amendments: The deletions from and modifications and amendments to the
2012 International Fire Code are as follows:
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Section 101.1 Title delete section in its entirety and replace with:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of the City of
Wood Dale, and shall be cited as such and will hereinafter be referred to as
"this code".
Chapter 9 Fire Protection Systems
Section 903.2 Where Required
An approved automatic sprinkler system shall be installed in the following use
group where the combined square footage on all floors exceed the following:
903.2.1.1 Group A-1                     5,000 square feet
903.2.1.3 Group A-3                     5,000 square feet
903.2.1.4 Group A-4                     5,000 square feet
Group B as defined in IBC section 304.1 5,000 square feet
903.2.2 Group B                         5,000 square feet
903.2.3 Group E                         5,000 square feet
903.2.4 Group F1                        5,000 square feet
903.2.7 Group M                         5,000 square feet
903.2.9 Group S-1                       5,000 square feet
903.2.9.1 Repair garages                5,000 square feet
903.2.9.2 Bulk storage of tires         5,000 square feet
903.2.10 Group S-2                      5,000 square feet
903.11.1 Stories without openings       0 square feet
 
Exception, where a more stringent application is required by the international
fire code, it shall take precedence.
Section 905 Standpipe Systems
1. A four inch (4") class III standpipe is required for buildings over two (2)
stories but less than 5 stories in height. (stories below grade to be included)
2. A six inch (6") class III standpipe is required for buildings over five (5)
stories or more in height. (stories below grade to be included)
Section 907 Fire Alarm and Detection Systems
1. Manual pull stations shall be installed in all use groups with the exception
of group R3.
2. An automatic and manual fire detection system shall be installed in all non-
sprinkled use groups under 5,000 square feet.
3. An automatic fire detection system shall be required in all multi-family R-
2 use groups in excess of 8 units or 10,000 square feet whichever is less.
Detection shall be required in all public egress routes including corridors,
stairwells, etc. Unattended areas such as storage rooms, garages, combustible
unattended areas, furnace rooms, attic spaces, crawl spaces and similar areas
shall be protected. All devices shall be interconnected to an approved control
panel with an audible alerting system serving all floors of the building. The
system is to be supervised and shall automatically transmit an alarm of fire
and trouble to an approved central station alarm office.
4. Multi-tenant buildings shall not be allowed to interconnect to a single
alarm transmittal to the approved central station alarm office.
Section 910 Smoke and Heat Vents
1. Smoke and heat venting shall be installed in all single story buildings or
portions thereof used as a group F, H, M, or S in excess of 2,500 square feet
unless prohibited in the exceptions of 910.1
2. Installation of smoke and heat venting shall be in accordance with section
F-910 and the applicable chapters of NFPA 204
Section 912 Fire Department Sprinkler Connection
The fire department connection shall be located and visible on the street
facing front or as approved by the fire official. The connection shall not
exceed one hundred feet (100') from an approved fire hydrant. The connection
shall not be obstructed by parking or fences and maintain a minimum of fifteen
feet (15') from any bushes, trees or utilities (gas, electric, or other similar
objects). Such shall be that immediate access can be made by the fire
department.
Chapter 10
Section 1003 General Means of Egress
1.Panic Hardware: Shall be provided on all common exit doors in use group R-
2 except those buildings servicing six (6) or less dwelling units panic
hardware shall be installed in accordance with NFPA.
2.Smoke Barrier Partitions: Corridors shall be divided with approved smoke
barrier doors of a class C labeled with automatic self-closing devices provided
in corridors over one hundred fifty feet (150') long.
Section 1008.1.9.3 Locks and Latches
1.Locks And Latches: Shall not be permitted on any required exit door or door
in the path of exit egress that require tight grasping, tight pinching,
twisting of the wrist, key or special knowledge to operate with the exception
of:
a.Detention or restraint
b.Doors from individual dwelling or sleeping units of group R occupancies
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Section 1008.1.9.7 Delayed Egress Locks
1.Delayed egress locks shall not be allowed, except as required by a State
Agency with the authority to regulate said occupancy.
(Ord. O-18-036, 11-1-2018)
Section 1011.1 Exit and Emergency Lighting
All occupancies and use groups with the exception of single family dwellings
structures and multi-family dwellings structures containing less than eight (8)
units shall have illuminated exit signs, illuminated directional signs and
illuminated emergency lighting when required by the authority having
jurisdiction. Said illuminated signs and lighting shall be connected to an
approved emergency power source with rechargeable battery, in the event of a
loss of power, the lighting units shall be able to maintain operation for a
duration of two (2) hours.
Section 1020 Exits
1.All required exits or exit passageways serving as an exit component in a mean
of egress system shall swing in the direction of exit egress from the higher
hazard to the lesser (warehouse to office).
Exception: Use group R, rooms serving as sleeping units or single family
occupancies.
Chapter 56
Section 5601 Explosives, Ammunition and Blasting Agents General Requirements
1.The manufacture, storage or use of explosives, ammunition and blasting agents
shall be prohibited within the corporate limit of the city of Wood Dale, except
by special permit approved by the building official.
2.Permittee shall be responsible for the reimbursement of all direct and
indirect costs incurred by the city of Wood Dale and Wood Dale fire protection
district should traffic control or emergency services be required.
Chapter 57
Chapter 57 Storage of Flammable and Combustible Liquids
1.All flammable liquids used outside the storage cabinet or room shall be
contained in U.L. approved self-closing containers.
2.No flammable and/or combustible liquid shall be pressurized or be capable of
a gravity feed.
3.Temporary storage of flammable and/or combustible liquids on construction,
shall be authorized only under special permit issued by the building official
and in such instances additional safeguards set forth by the building official
shall be required.
4.All flammable and/or combustible liquids shall be stored in a proper color
coded and labeled container.
Section 5704.1. Above Ground Storage Tanks
1.Above ground storage tanks for the outside storage of combustible, flammable
liquids or hazardous material shall be prohibited within the corporate limits
of the city of Wood Dale without the expressed written permission of the
building official and fire official. Above ground tanks that have been
expressly approved by the building code and fire official that are found to be
non-compliant are subject to their approval being revoked by the city of Wood
Dale and having the tanks removed with site remediation at the sole expense of
the owner of the tank and/or property.
2.Bulk, processing or industrial plants, refineries or other plants and
distilleries and all buildings, tanks and equipment used for the storage,
processing, distillation, refining or blending of flammable or combustible
liquids are prohibited within the corporate limits of the city of Wood Dale.
Section 5704.1 Installation of Tanks Above and Below Ground
1.All such installations proposed within the corporate limits of the city of
Wood Dale, DuPage County, Illinois shall be submitted to the appropriate agency
of said city of Wood Dale and shall not be installed without securing the
written approval of said city of Wood Dale and the Wood Dale fire protection
district, a copy of said written approval shall be filed with the building
official.
2.Before installation of any underground or above ground tank, as hereinafter
described, three (3) copies of drawings or blueprints for the proposed
installation shall be filed with the building official of the city of Wood
Dale. Said drawings or blueprints shall show the location of the proposed
installation relative to surrounding structures, streets, sanitary and storm
sewers, water mains and shall indicate the location of the water table in the
area of the proposed excavation. Said drawings or blueprints shall be submitted
at least five (5) weeks prior to the proposed commencement of construction. All
such drawings or blueprints shall have the prior approval of the Illinois state
fire marshal's office if applicable. In addition, the drawings or blueprints
shall include the street address, name of property owner, location of the
proposed tanks on the property and the name, address and telephone number of
the installing contractor and the name or names of the job site superintendent.
No work relating to the installation of the proposed tanks or vessels shall
commence until written approval has been secured from the city of Wood Dale
building department.
3.The installing contractor shall notify the building department when the
excavation has been completed and prior to the time of placement of any tanks
or vessels into the excavation for the purpose of allowing inspection of both
the excavation and the tanks or vessels.
Section 5704.2.13 Failure of Tank, Abandonment or Discontinuation of Use
1. Should any tank or vessel fail, the tank or vessel shall be removed from
service, and the contents removed from the tank or vessel immediately. If the
tank or vessel cannot be restored to service through acceptable procedures, the
defective tank shall be removed from the premises, within thirty (30) days of
the date of failure of the test. Any piping which fails shall be replaced or
repaired immediately. A sump shall be installed immediately and the
accumulation of liquid shall be pumped out of the sump in a safe and approved
manner, until the liquid is completely removed from the tank site.
Section 5704.2.14
Whenever the intended use of the tank or vessel is discontinued or the tank is
abandoned the tank or vessel shall be removed as prescribed by the laws of the
state of Illinois. The building and fire official shall be notified and witness
the removal of the subject tanks or vessels.
Chapter 61 Liquefied Petroleum Use And Storage
Section 6106 Refueling:
Changing of liquefied petroleum tanks shall be done outside of the building or
in a vented area approved by the building official. Refilling liquefied
petroleum storage tanks shall not be allowed within the corporate limits of the
city of Wood Dale.
Section 6109.1 Storage:
Storage of liquefied petroleum tanks shall be on the exterior of the building
in a fenced or other secured area approved by the building official.
1) When not in use, lift trucks fueled by liquefied petroleum gas shall be
stored in a vented area approved by the building official.
Section 6109.10 Quantities:
The maximum exterior storage quantity of liquid petroleum shall be limited to
two (2) spare tanks per vehicle or one (1) weeks supply whichever is less.
Interior storage of liquid petroleum shall not be allowed other than allowable
amounts contained in the 2012 ICC code for retail sale.
Water Distribution System
Water mains and fire hydrants shall be provided to serve all lots, parcels and
tracts in the city. All water mains shall comply with the following minimum
specifications:
Fire Hydrants Required: Fire Hydrants with auxiliary valves shall be provided,
but in no case shall such fire hydrants be more than three hundred (300) feet
apart along the lengths of street.
Fire Hydrant Spacing: Fire hydrants shall be installed on all water
distribution mains throughout the entire system with a maximum distance of
three hundred (300) feet between hydrants and a maximum of two hundred fifty
(250) feet from any structure. Spacing between hydrants shall be measured along
vehicular access roads around the perimeter of the building. A hydrant shall
also be provided within one hundred (100) feet of any building's automatic fire
sprinkler system or standpipe connection.
Fire Hydrants on Private Property: It shall be the responsibility of the owner
of the property to maintain all fire hydrants on private property. All such
fire hydrants on private property shall be opened and flowed in the presence of
the Public Works Department at least once a year. The Public Works Department
shall prepare a list of requirements concerning the maintenance and operation
of such fire hydrants and made available to any affected property owner. A fire
hydrant found not to be in satisfactory condition shall be repaired by the
owner of the property within ten (10) working days. The Public Works Department
shall be notified when the hydrant is again operational and ready for re-
inspection. In all cases the Fire District shall be notified immediately of the
fact that the hydrant is not operable and is out of service. Each property
owner that has a private hydrant shall keep a record showing the maintenance
work done on each fire hydrant and made available for viewing by the city.
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.405. International Mechanical Code Amendments.
The deletions from and modifications and amendments to the 2012 International
Mechanical Code are as follows:
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Section 101.1 Title delete in its entirety and replace with:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Mechanical Code of the
City of Wood Dale, and shall be cited as such and will hereinafter be referred
to as "this code".
Section 103 Department of mechanical inspection delete section in its entirety.
Section 104 Duties and powers of the code official delete section in its
entirety.
Section 106 Permits delete section in its entirety.
Section 108 Violations delete section in its entirety.
Section 109 Means of Appeal delete section in its entirety.
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.406. International Fuel Gas Code Amendments.
The deletions from and modifications and amendments to the 2012 International
Fuel Gas Code are the following:
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Section 101.1 Title delete in its entirety and replace with:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fuel Gas Code of the City
of Wood Dale, and shall be cited as such and will hereinafter be referred to as
"this code".
Section 103 Department of inspection delete section in its entirety.
Section 104 Duties and powers of the code official delete section in its
entirety.
Section 106 Permits delete section in its entirety.
Section 108 Violations delete section in its entirety.
Section 109 Means of Appeal delete section in its entirety.
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.407. International Property Maintenance Code Amendments.
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Graffiti:
         a.   It shall be the duty of the owner of the structure or wall upon
which any graffiti has been placed to remove, eradicate or eliminate such
graffiti within fifteen (15) days from its placement upon such structure or
wall. (For purposes of this subsection, the term "graffiti" shall include but
shall not be limited to the following illustrative items: any drawing,
inscription, word, phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch, or letters containing
references to sexual activity, diagrams relating to the sexual activity or
sexual organs, references to criminal activities, or groups which promote or
are involved in criminal activity, swearing or fighting words, defamatory
materials about any person or references to relationships.)
            (1)   In the event the owner of the structure or wall upon which
any graffiti has been placed has failed to eliminate such graffiti, the owner
shall be notified via certified mail or personal notice by the City of such
failure and shall be given an additional fifteen (15) days to remove such
graffiti.
            (2)   In the event the owner of such structure or wall upon which
any graffiti has been placed can show to the City there is a reasonable
likelihood that the person responsible for placement of the graffiti will be
required to make restitution or restore such structure or wall to its previous
condition, the owner may be given additional time to meet the removal
requirements without charges being filed. In no event shall the owner be
granted more than ninety (90) days' time to cause the removal of the graffiti.
All appeals for additional time to comply with the provisions of this section
shall be made to the City of Wood Dale Police Department.
         b.   Notwithstanding the language contained in subsection A1a of this
section, it shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any owner of such structure
or wall to permit or allow graffiti to remain thereon for a period in excess of
thirty (30) days.
      2.   Door/Window Coverings: Any structure within the City of Wood Dale
that has its exterior doors and windows covered by sheathing, planking, or any
other type of solid materials either by direction of the building official, or
due to any other reason, including, but not limited to, property damage,
repair, abandonment of use or occupancy, and/or demolition, shall comply with
the following requirements: a) the material used shall be weathertight, b) the
material used to cover said exterior doors or windows shall be painted with an
opaque finish that matches as closely as possible the predominant color of the
structure, c) the finish shall be maintained in full compliance with the
Property Maintenance Code so as to prevent the material/structure from causing
a blight type condition to be established.
      3.   Open Space: All open space on a lot (areas not improved with
structures) shall be planted and maintained with landscaping consisting of live
plantings, such as turf, trees, shrubs, and planting beds.
   B.   Amendments: The deletions from and modifications and amendments to the
2012 International Property Maintenance Code are as follows:
Chapter 1 Scope and Administration
Section 101.1 Title delete in its entirety and replace with:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance Code
of the City of Wood Dale, and shall be cited as such and will hereinafter be
referred to as "this code".
Section 102.3 Application of other codes delete the following words
"International Existing Building Code" and "International Plumbing Code".
Section 102.3 Application of other codes delete the following words
"International Zoning Code" and replace with City of Wood Dale Unified
Development Ordinance.
Section 103 Department of Property Maintenance Inspections delete section in
its entirety.
Section 104 Duties and Powers of the Code Official delete section in its
entirety.
Section 109 Emergency Measures delete section in its entirety.
Section 111 Means of Appeals delete section in its entirety.
Section 112 Stop Work Order delete section in its entirety.
Chapter 3 General Requirements
Section 302.4 Weeds delete the first sentence and replace with:
All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from nuisance
greenery and in accordance with Chapter 6, Article II, Sec. 6.206 of the
Municipal Code.
Section 302.4 Weeds delete the following words "in accordance with Section
106.3 and"
Section 304.1.1 Unsafe conditions delete the following words "or the
International Existing Building Code"
Section 304.3 Premises identification delete section and replace with:
Section 304.3 Premises identification. Buildings shall have approved address
numbers, building numbers or approved building identification mounted on the
structure and placed in a position that is plainly legible and visible from the
street or road fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their
background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numbers and a minimum of 6 inches
high with a minimum stroke width of 1/2 inch. Where access is by means of
private road or the building address cannot be viewed from the public right of
way, an additional address will be posted on a monument, pole or other sign or
means to identify the structure.
Section 304.14 Insect screens add the following dates "from April 1st to
November 1st"
Section 305.1.1. Unsafe conditions delete the following words "or the
International Existing Building Code"
Section 306.1.1. Unsafe conditions delete the following words "or the
International Existing Building Code"
Chapter 6 Mechanical and Electrical Requirements
Section 602.3 Heat supply add the following dates "from October 1st to May
15th".
Section 602.4 Occupiable work spaces add the following dates "from October 1st
to May 15th".
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.408. National Electrical Code Amendments.
The deletions from and modifications and amendments to the 2011 National
Electrical Code are as follows:
Article 200 Wiring and Protection
210.52 (G) Basements, Garages and Accessory Buildings add the following:
210.52 (G) (3). A minimum of one ceiling receptacle outlet shall be installed
at each overhead garage door in all attached garages and detached garages.
210.70 (1) Habitable Rooms add the following:
210.70 (1) Habitable Rooms Exception No. 3: Switches in bathrooms shall be at
least 5 feet from the inside edge of any bathtub or shower unless protected by
ground-fault circuit interrupter protection for personnel. All light and/or
exhaust fixtures located above bathtubs or showers shall be protected by
ground-fault circuit interrupter protection for personnel and approved for this
type of location.
210.70 (2) (a) Additional Locations delete and replace with the following:
210.70(2) (a) At least one wall switch-controlled lighting outlet shall be
installed in hallways, stairways, attached garages and detached garages. Said
wall switch shall not be located beyond five feet (5') from the point of entry
to a room, including cellars or basements.
Article 334 Nonmetallic-Sheathed Cable: Types NM, NMC & NMS delete in its
entirety.
Article 338 Service-Entrance Cable: Types SE & USE delete in its entirety.
Article 354 Nonmetallic Underground Conduit with Conductors: Type NUCC delete
in its entirety.
Article 362 Electrical Nonmetallic Tubing: Type ENT delete in its entirety.
Article 378 Nonmetallic Wire Ways delete in its entirety.
Article 382 Nonmetallic Extensions delete in its entirety.
Article 388 Surface Nonmetallic Raceways delete in its entirety.
Article 394 Concealed Knob-And-Tube Wiring delete in its entirety.
Article 396 Messenger Supported Wiring delete in its entirety.
Article 398 Open Wiring on Insulators delete in its entirety.
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.409. Illinois Plumbing Code Amendments.
The deletions from and modifications and amendments to the 2014 Illinois
Plumbing Code are as follows:
A. General Provisions.
      1.   Water Conservation Practices:
         a.   Water Use Restrictions: See section
7.307 of the Municipal Code for water use restrictions.
         b.   Plumbing Fixtures And Irrigation Controllers: Pursuant to 17
Illinois administrative code 3730.307(c)(4) and subject to the Illinois
plumbing code (77 III. adm. code 890) and the lawn irrigation contractor and
lawn sprinkler system registration code (77 III. adm. code 892), all new and
replacement plumbing fixtures and irrigation controllers installed after the
effective date hereof shall bear the WaterSense label (as designated by the
U.S. environmental protection agency WaterSense program), when such labeled
fixtures are available. In addition, new/replacement sprinkler systems shall be
equipped with a WaterSense irrigation controller and shall be in compliance
with section 2.5(g) of the Illinois plumbing licensing law.
         c.   Car Washes: All newly constructed car washes and all existing car
washes where a plumbing permit is required for remodeling must be equipped with
a water recycling system.
B. Amendments
      1.   Replace subsections (a) and (b) of section 890.170: Sewer And/Or
Water Required, with the following:
         a.   Every building or unit of a building shall have its own separate
individual water service and individual sanitary sewer service that is supplied
by and/or connected to a city of Wood Dale public water main and city of Wood
Dale public sanitary sewer main. The entire plumbing system shall be entirely
separate and independent from that of other buildings or units of a building.
         b.   Separate units within the same building of multiple story
apartment buildings, multiple story condominium buildings, hotels, motels and
multiple story office buildings may be supplied by one properly sized water
service and sanitary sewer service in accordance with the Illinois plumbing
code.
      2.   Revise section 890.1150(a)(3) as follows:
The minimum depth for any water service pipe shall be at least 48-inches or the
maximum frost penetration of the local area, whichever is of greater depth.
      3.   Replace the first sentence of section 890.1190(b) with:
The utility meter (i.e. the water meter) shall be installed within a building
where a building exists.
      4.   Replace section 890.1200(a) with:
The water service pipe from the street main (including the tap) to the water
distribution system for the building shall be a minimum of one-inch in
diameter, type K copper.
      5.   Replace section 890.1360(a)(1) with the following:
All new buildings with plumbing fixtures or drains located below the outside
grade shall discharge into a gas-tight, covered and vented sump from which the
waste shall be lifted and discharged into a sanitary waste drain by automatic
sewage ejector pumping equipment (overhead sewer).
      6.   Amend table A of appendix A as follows:
Section 890. TABLE A APPROVED MATERIALS AND STANDARDS
Approved Building Drainage/Vent Pipe1
2)  Brass pipe                           ASTM B 43-2009
                                         ASTM A 74-2009 ASTM A 888-2011 ASTM C
3)  Cast iron pipe                       564-2012 CISPI 301-2009 CSA B70-2012
                                         FM 1680-1989
5)  Copper/copper alloy pipe             ASTM B 42-2010 ASTM B 302-2012
6)  Copper/copper alloy tubing (K-L-M or ASTM B 75/B75M-2011 ASTM B 88-2009
    DWV) 2                               ASTM B 251-2010 ASTM B 306-2009
7)  Galvanized steel pipe2               ASTM A 53/A53M-2012
8)  Glass fiber borosilicate pipe3       ASTM C 1053-2010
9)  High silicon content cast iron pipe3 ASTM A 377-2008e1 CSA B70-2012
    Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe and    ASTM D 2665-2012 ASTM D 2949-2010 CSA
11) fittings                             B137.2-2009 in B137 CSA B181.2-2011 in
                                         B1800
15) Stainless steel - types 304 and 316L ASME A112.3.1-2007 (R2012)
16) Stainless steel buttweld fittings    ASTM A 403/A 403M-2012 ASTM A 774/
                                         A 774M-2009
17) Stainless steel flanges              ASTM A 2400/A 240M-2012a
18) Identification of piping systems     ASME A13.1-2007
 
Notes:
      1    Building drains passing through a foundation wall shall be
constructed of extra heavy cast iron pipe or ductile iron pipe.
      2    Type M copper tubing, DWV copper tubing, and galvanized steel pipe
are approved for above-ground uses only.
      3    Approved for corrosive waste or corrosive soil conditions.
Approved Materials For Building Sewer - Delete entire table and replace with
"Only polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe - SDR 26, AWWA C900, and ASTM D2241 is
approved."
Approved Building Materials For Water Service Pipe
 
3) Cast iron (ductile iron) 2 water pipe ASTM A 377-2008e1 CSA B70-2012 AWWA
                                         C151-2009
5) Copper/copper alloy pipe2,3           ASTM B 42-2010 ASTM B 302-2012
6) Copper/copper alloy tubing2,3         ASTM B 88-2009
 
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.410. International Energy Conservation Code Amendments.
The deletions from and modifications and amendments to the 2015 International
Energy Conservation Code are as follows:
Chapter 1 (CE) Scope and Administration
Section C101.1 Title delete in its entirety and replace with:
Section C101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Energy Code of
the City of Wood Dale, and shall be cited as such and will hereinafter be
referred to as "this code".
Section C103.3 Examination of documents through Section C103.5 delete sections
in their entirety.
Section C104 Inspections delete section in its entirety.
Section C107 Fees delete section in its entirety.
Section C108 Stop work order delete section in its entirety.
Section C109 Board of Appeals delete section in its entirety.
Chapter 1 (RE) Scope and Administration
Section R101.1 Title delete in its entirety and replace with:
R101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Energy Code of the City
of Wood Dale, and shall be cited as such and will hereinafter be referred to as
"this code".
Sections R103.3 Examination of documents through Section R103.5 delete sections
in their entirety.
Section R104 Inspections delete section in its entirety.
Section R107 Fees delete section in its entirety.
Section R108 Stop work order delete section in its entirety.
Section R109 Board of Appeals delete section in its entirety.
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE V
PERMITS
SECTION:
12.501. Applicability
12.502. General Provisions
12.503. Application For Permit
12.504. Licensing, Registrations And Responsibility
12.505. Issuance
12.506. Inspections
12.507. Construction Compliance Documentation
12.508. Certificate Of Occupancy
Sec. 12.501. Applicability.
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall erect, construct, alter or repair,
demolish or move any building or structure in the City of Wood Dale, or begin
the clearing or excavating of the site of any proposed building or structure,
or construct or maintain any driveway in or across any public walk, parkway or
curb, without first having applied for and obtained a permit in accordance with
this chapter.
   B.   Work Exempt From Permit:
      1.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, countertops and
similar finish work;
      2.   Non-fixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and
partitions not over five feet nine inches (5'9") in height which do not contain
electrical devices;
      3.   Prefabricated swimming pools which are capable of holding less than
twenty four inches (24") of water, do not exceed five thousand (5,000) gallons,
and are installed entirely above ground;
      4.   One story detached accessory structures used as playhouses provided
the floor area does not exceed one hundred twenty (120) square feet; and
      5.   Swings and other playground equipment. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.502. General Provisions.
   A.   Existing Violations: The City shall not be required to issue a permit
to a property owner or agent for, or perform inspections on properties upon
which there are existing code violations, fees or any outstanding issues until
such work, fees, or issues have been corrected.
   B.   Jurisdictional Cooperation: The assistance and cooperation of police,
fire, and health agencies and all other officials shall be available to the
building official as required in the performance of his duties.
   C.   City's Right To Prosecute Violations: The issuance of a permit,
certificate of occupancy or temporary certificate of occupancy shall not stop
the City from prosecuting, or operate as a waiver of any right of the City to
prosecute, an owner or occupant of any real estate for any violation of any
City ordinance.
   D.   Payment To City: No permit, certificate of occupancy or temporary
certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the City when any applicant owes
the City any money for any purpose whatsoever. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.503. Application For Permit.
   A.   Form Of Application: The application for a permit shall be submitted in
such form as the building official may prescribe and shall be accompanied by
the required fees as specified in the master fee schedule. The permit form
shall provide substantially similar disclaimer language as follows: "the City
is not required to review or enforce private property restrictions or covenants
set forth in any property records including but not limited to homeowner's
association property records, unless the City has expressly accepted any such
enforcement."
   B.   Owner Authorization: Application for a permit shall be made by the
owner or lessee of the building or structure, or agent of either, or by the
licensed structural engineer or architect employed in connection with the
proposed work. If the application is made by a person other than the owner in
fee, it shall be accompanied by a duly verified affidavit of the owner or the
qualified person making the application that the proposed work is authorized by
the owner in fee and that the applicant is authorized to make such application.
   C.   Description Of Work: The application shall contain a general
description of the proposed work, its location, the use and occupancy of all
parts of the building or structure, and of all portions of the site or lot.
   D.   Additional Documentation: The following additional information, as
applicable, must be provided in such quantities as determined by the building
official:
      1.   Plat Of Survey: Each application for a building permit shall be
accompanied by the property survey of the lot on which the proposed building or
structure is to be built, or on which there exists the building or structure to
be altered, moved or demolished. The property survey shall show, with complete
dimensions, the buildings, structures and appurtenances existing on the lot, or
shall carry a notation that the lot is vacant if such is the case. The property
survey shall be to scale, and certified by a State of Illinois registered land
surveyor. No permit shall be issued for the construction or alteration of the
building or structure on an unrecorded lot or tract of land.
      2.   Building Plans: Plans submitted shall be complete in every respect
as to all applicable regulations including, but not limited to, the
requirements of this chapter and other ordinances of the City. Such plans shall
reflect the architectural style of drawing, be to a specific scale, and show
sufficient clarity and detail dimensions to show the nature and character of
all the work to be performed. If the work for which their permit is sought
includes structural alterations, is for alterations to commercial or industrial
buildings, or at the discretion of the building official, plans shall be
prepared by a licensed State of Illinois architect or structural engineer and
shall be signed and sealed as required by their licensing. In addition, for all
construction other than single-family residential, a copy of the aforesaid
plans shall be forwarded to the Fire Prevention Bureau by the building
official. The building official may waive the requirement for filing plans when
the work involved is of a minor nature.
      3.   Specifications: The application for the permit shall be accompanied
by manufacturer's specifications essential for determining compliance with this
chapter.
      4.   Site Plan: There shall also be a site plan showing to scale the size
and location of all the new construction and all existing structures on the
site, distances from lot lines, the established street grades, existing grades
within a one hundred foot (100') radius, or as directed by the building
official, and the proposed finished grades displayed in one foot (1') contours;
and it shall be drawn in accordance with an accurate boundary line survey. In
the case of demolition, the site plan shall show all construction to be
demolished and the location and size of all existing structures and
construction that are to remain on the site.
      5.   Grading Plan: The building official may require a grading and/or
stormwater management plan prior to issuance of any building permit that will
include the expansion of lot coverage or as required to determine compliance
with chapter 17 of this Code.
         a.   City Engineer Approval: The grading plans shall be subject to the
approval of the City Engineer prior to the issuance of a building permit.
Individual site grading plans will be necessary where a permittee deviates from
the plans prepared by a registered professional engineer, which have previously
been approved by the City for an entire tract of land or subdivision.
         b.   Permit Application For New Buildings: All building permit
applications for new buildings or structures shall indicate the top of
foundation, the proposed finished grade, surface drainage, street and adjacent
property elevations.
      6.   Engineering Details: The building official may require adequate
details of structural, mechanical and electrical work including computations,
stress diagrams and other essential technical data to be filed. All engineering
plans and computations shall bear the signature of the State of Illinois
structural engineer or architect responsible for the design.
   E.   Emergency Repairs: Where equipment replacements and repairs must be
performed in an emergency situation, the permit application shall be submitted
within the next working business day.
   F.   Amendments To Applications: Amendments to a plan, application or other
records accompanying the same may be filed at any time before the permit is
issued; and such amendments shall be deemed part of the original application
and shall be filed therewith.
   G.   Time Limitation Of Application: An application for a permit for any
proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned one hundred eighty (180)
days after the date of filing, unless such application has been diligently
pursued or a permit shall have been issued; except that for reasonable cause,
the building official may grant one or more extensions of time for additional
periods not exceeding ninety (90) days each. The extension shall be requested
in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018; amd.
Ord. O-22-019, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 12.504. Licensing, Registrations And Responsibility.
   A.   Contractors With Existing Violations: The City shall not be required to
issue a permit to, or perform inspections for work completed by, any contractor
or subcontractor responsible for existing code violations, fees or any
outstanding issues with the City until such work, fees, or issues have been
corrected.
   B.   Licensing And Registration Requirements: All contractors required to be
licensed by the State of Illinois must provide a copy of such license in
accordance with
chapter 4 of this Code. Contractors, required to register in accordance with
chapter 4 of this Code, must maintain a current registration for the duration
of the permit.
   C.   Professional Architecture Or Engineering Services: All new, alteration,
repair, expansion, addition or modification work involving the practice of
professional architecture or engineering as defined by the statutory
requirements of the professional registration laws of the State of Illinois,
shall be prepared by registered professional architects or structural engineers
as certified by the State. All plans, computations and specifications required
for a permit application for such work must be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered architect or structural engineer and bear his/her
signature and seal in accordance with State Statutes and regulations governing
the professional registration and certification of architects or engineers.
   D.   Architect/Engineer Inspectional Responsibility: The professional
architect or engineer of record for a building permit application shall be
responsible for the following:
      1.   Review shop drawings, samples and other submittals of the contractor
as required by the construction contract documents as submitted for building
permit, and approval for conformance to the design concept.
      2.   Review and approval of the contractor's quality control procedures
for all code required controlled materials.
      3.   Provide special architectural or engineering professional
inspections of critical construction components requiring controlled materials
or construction in the accepted engineering practice standards. Copies of
special inspections shall be made available to the building official on
request.
      4.   The professional architect or engineer shall perform the necessary
professional services and be present on the construction site on a regular and
periodic basis to determine that, generally, the work is proceeding in
accordance with the documents approved for the building permit. (Ord. O-18-025,
7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.505. Issuance.
   A.   Action On Application: The building official shall examine or cause to
be examined all applications for permits and amendments thereto within a
reasonable time after filing. If the application or the plans do not conform to
the requirements of all pertinent laws, he/she shall reject such application in
writing stating the reasons therefor. If he/she is satisfied that the proposed
work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and all laws and ordinances
applicable thereto, he shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
   B.   Inadequate Access Or Utilities: No permit shall be issued if the
following circumstances are present:
      1.   Adequate and approved water supplies and sewerage facilities are not
available;
      2.   Surface drainage will damage adjoining properties;
      3.   Public improvements, as appropriate, are not installed; or
      4.   Access for emergency vehicles and equipment is not provided at all
times over a negotiable all weather roadway.
   C.   Signature To Permit: The building official shall attach his signature
to every permit, or he may authorize a subordinate to affix such signature
thereto.
   D.   Approved Plans: The building official shall stamp or endorse in writing
both sets of corrected plans approved, and one set of such approved plans shall
be retained by the Community Development Department and the other set shall be
kept at the building site, open to inspection of the building official or his
authorized representative at all reasonable times.
   E.   Fees:
      1.   General: A permit required by this chapter shall not be issued until
the payment of fees in full has been received by the City or other authorized
agency of the City, nor shall an amendment to a permit necessitating an
additional fee because of an increase in the scope of work be approved until
the additional fee shall have been paid. The permit fees applicable to all
development, building or construction within the City shall be those fees and
charges as specified in the master fee schedule or as otherwise specified.
      2.   Special Fees: The payment of fees for the work done in connection
with or concurrently with the work contemplated by a permit shall not relieve
the applicant or permittee from the payment of other fees that may be
prescribed by law or ordinance for water taps, sewer connections, erection of
signs and display structures, marquees or other appurtenant structures, or fees
for re-inspections, or other privileges or requirements, both within and
without the jurisdiction of the Community Development Department.
      3.   Fee Waiver: Requests for a fee waiver must be made in writing by the
property owner. Pass through costs (costs incurred by the City for work
conducted by a third-party on behalf of the City) are not eligible to be
waived. The City Manager must approve all fee waivers and the Development
Administrator shall maintain a record of all fees waived.
   F.   Approval Of Part: The building official may issue a permit for the
construction of foundations or any other part of a building or structure before
the entire plans and specifications for the whole building or structure have
been submitted, provided adequate information and detailed statements have been
filed complying with all the pertinent requirements of this chapter. The holder
of such permit for the foundations or other parts of a building or structure
shall proceed at his own risk with the building operation and without assurance
that a permit for the entire structure will be granted.
   G.   Permit Compliance: All work shall conform to the approved application
and plans for which the permit has been issued and any approved amendments
thereto.
   H.   Site Plan Compliance: All new construction shall be located strictly in
accordance with the approved site plan.
   I.   Construction Documents: During construction, a copy of the said plans
shall remain on file in the Community Development Department, and a duplicate
copy shall be returned to the permittee to be kept on the construction site. In
addition, for all construction other than single family residential, a copy of
the approved plans shall be forwarded to the applicable Fire Prevention Bureau
by the building official.
   J.   Expiration Of Building Permit And Extensions:
      1.   Permits are valid for one year from the date of issuance, unless
otherwise specified.
      2.   Operations covered by a permit shall be carried to completion
without delay and not drawn out over extended periods of time. Any permittee
holding an unexpired permit may apply for an extension of the time within which
he may commence work, or complete work within the time required by this section
for good and satisfactory reasons. The building official may extend the time
for action by the permittee for a period not exceeding one hundred eighty (180)
days upon written request by the permittee showing that circumstances beyond
the control of the permittee have prevented action from being taken. No permit
shall be extended more than twice, except upon review and approval by the City
Manager for an additional one hundred eighty (180) days. A fee as specified in
the master fee schedule shall be required for each extension period.
   K.   Suspension Of Permit: Any permit issued shall become invalid if the
authorized work is not commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days after the
time of permit issuance.
   L.   Surrender Of Building Permit; Refunds: At any time prior to the
expiration of one hundred eighty (180) days following the issuance of any
permit, provided that no work has commenced and no extension thereof shall be
in effect, the persons to whom such permits shall have been issued, or his
estate or assigns, may surrender such permit and shall thereupon be given a
refund as specified in the master fee schedule. No such refund shall be made
for a suspended or revoked permit.
   M.   Change During Construction: If during the progress of work under a
permit, it is desired to change the plans upon which the permit was issued, or
to change contractors, notice of such desired change must be filed with the
building official and a written permit obtained therefor before such changes
are made. If the scope of work increases by such changes, any additional fee
must be paid before approval of such change. Revised sets of plans showing the
changes shall be furnished, and one of these sets, approved by the building
official, shall replace those being kept with the permit card.
   N.   Notice Of Start: At least twenty four (24) hours' notice before the
start of work under a building permit for demolition and/or new construction
shall be given to the building official.
   O.   Loss Of Permit Card: In the event that the building permit card is
lost, defaced or stolen, it will be replaced upon application, in person, to
the building official, for a fee as specified in the master fee schedule.
   P.   Loss Of Approved Plans: In the event that the plans being kept with the
permit card are lost, defaced, stolen or illegible through handling and use, a
new set of plans will be endorsed by the building official upon personal
application at the Community Development Department for a fee as specified in
the master fee schedule.
   Q.   Validity Of Permit: The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be
construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the
provisions of this Code or of any other ordinance of the City. Permits
presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this Code or
other ordinances of the City shall not be valid. The issuance of a permit based
on construction documents and other data shall not prevent the building
official from requiring the correction of errors in the construction documents
and other data. The building official is also authorized to prevent occupancy
or use of a structure where in violation of this Code or of any other
ordinances of the City.
   R.   Revocation Of Permit: The building official is authorized to suspend or
revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this Code wherever the permit is
issued in error or on the basis of incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete
information, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the
provisions of this Code. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.506. Inspections.
   A.   Preliminary Inspection: Before issuing a permit, the building official
may examine or cause to be examined all buildings, structures and sites for
which an application has been filed for a permit.
   B.   Plant Inspection: When required by the provisions of this chapter or by
the approved rules, materials or assemblies shall be inspected at the point of
manufacture or fabrication in accordance with subsection F of this section.
   C.   Right Of Entry: In the discharge of his duties, the building official
or his/her designee shall have the authority to enter at any reasonable hour
any building, structure or premises in the City to enforce the provisions of
this chapter. Any failure to grant, or refusal of a building official or
designee right of entry for any required inspection shall result in an
additional inspection fee, as specified in the master fee schedule.
Interference with, or obstruction made to, any such building official or his or
her designee(s) while engaged in the performance of said duties shall result in
an additional inspection fee specified in the master fee schedule. Said fees
shall be imposed by staff and added to the amount owed to the City from the
permittee, owner, builder, contractor or agent for said construction. No
Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued in connection with said construction
until such time as said fees are paid in full.
   D.   Accredited Inspection Services: The building official may accept
reports of his/her own inspectors or may require and accept inspection and
reports of accredited consulting organizations. Fees for such outside
inspection, reports or services are to be paid by the permittee.
   E.   Time Of Inspections: The permittee shall notify the building official
at each of the times when the work has progressed to the point where it is
ready for the next inspection, in accordance with subsection G of this section.
The method and procedure for notification shall be determined by the building
official. The permittee, owner or contractor is required to schedule
inspections with the Community Development Department, a minimum of twenty four
(24) hours in advance to schedule any inspection. If a required spot survey is
not submitted prior to scheduling a rough framing inspection, an inspection
fee, as specified in the master fee schedule, may be imposed. Further, if any
required inspection has not been scheduled in accordance with subsection G, or
any Rough Framing begins prior to a spot survey being submitted to, and
approved by, the City, and/or the work or the survey does not comply with the
requirements of the City Code, an additional fee, as specified in the master
fee schedule, may be imposed by staff, and shall be paid prior the City
conducting any subsequent inspection(s).
   F.   Inspection Reports: All inspection reports shall be in writing and
shall be certified by the licensed authority or responsible officer of the
service or the individual when expert inspection services are accepted. An
identifying label or stamp permanently fixed to the product indicating that
factory inspection has been made may be accepted in lieu of the aforesaid
inspection report in writing if the intent or meaning of such identifying label
or stamp is properly substantiated.
      1.   Approval: As each stage or item of construction passes inspection,
the approval shall be recorded by the building official in his/her official
records thereby authorizing the continuation of work.
      2.   Disapproval: In case the work that has been performed or is about to
be completed does not conform to the City Code or other applicable ordinances,
the building official shall, as soon as practical, notify the contractor,
citing the violation(s) of the City Code or other ordinances which are the
reason for the failed inspection. That portion of the work which is disapproved
shall be corrected by the contractor or responsible party and re-inspected by
the building official or his/her designee. Any portion of work which is
disapproved by the building official after the first re-inspection shall be
subject to fees for subsequent inspections as provided for in the master fee
schedule. Any such work by the permittee, owner, builder, contractor or agent
commenced on the disapproved portion of said work after notice, other than to
cure non-conforming work, is a violation of the City Code and will be subject
to the fees set forth in the master fee schedule and added by staff, with an
increase in the fee for each violation hereof, as set forth in the master fee
schedule.
      3.   Post-Construction Variations: In case the work has been performed or
is about to be completed and does not conform with the City Code or other
applicable ordinances, the building official shall, as soon as practical,
notify the contractor, siting the violation(s) of the City Code or other
ordinances, the building official may, but is not required to, approve a
deviation which, in the opinion of the building official, constitute a de
minimis variation of deviation from the City Code requirements and will not
present or constitute an impact on the life-safety and/or health, safety and
welfare of the City or its residents. In such event, the fee set forth in the
master fee schedule shall be imposed by staff.
   G.   Required Inspections: All work for which a building permit has been
issued shall be periodically inspected to determine its conformity with the
City Code and the approved plans. Inspections required under the provisions of
this article shall be scheduled by the permittee, owner, builder, contractor,
or agent and conducted by the building official or his/her designee. Any
permittee, owner or contractor who fails to submit a spot survey before framing
or fails to schedule said inspection is in violation of this Code and shall be
subject to the fee specified in the master fee schedule, which fees shall be
imposed by staff.
      1.   Building/Structure: Timing and description of required inspections:
         a.   Site inspection: When required fencing and site requirements have
been installed but before the commencement of work.
         b.   Post holes: Before concrete is placed.
         c.   Footing/trench: When forms are set but before concrete is placed.
         d.   Foundation: When forms and reinforcing are set but before
concrete is placed.
         e.   Backfill: When foundation is damp-proofed, drain tile are
installed and covered with gravel and foundation insulation installed but
before backfill is placed.
         f.   Basement/crawlspace slab: When base, reinforcing and vapor
barrier are installed but before concrete is placed.
         g.   Stoop/step/ramp: When forms, base, reinforcing and flashing paper
are installed but before concrete is placed.
         h.   Garage slab: When forms, base, reinforcing and vapor barrier are
installed but before concrete is placed.
         i.   Rough framing: Once framing is completed but before any
insulation, gypsum board, or other interior finish material is installed. All
rough inspections of electrical, mechanical, and plumbing must be completed
before framing inspection.
         j.   Above ceiling: When all systems located in the ceiling have been
completed and approved, and the ceiling grid or framing is installed but before
any ceiling tiles, drywall or other interior finishes are installed.
         k.   Insulation: After insulation is completed but before interior
finishes are installed. All required rough inspections must be inspected
approved before this inspection.
         l.   Building paper: Once paper is installed and taped but before
siding, brick or other exterior covering materials are installed.
         m.   Underground mechanical: When all gas piping is installed but
before any concrete, backfill or other covering is placed.
         n.   HVAC rough: When rough is completed but before any insulation,
gypsum board or other interior finish materials are installed.
         o.   HVAC final: When all HVAC work is completed and system is
installed and operational.
         p.   Final inspection: When all work has been completed and prior to
any occupancy or use of the building or structure.
      2.   Electrical: Timing and description of required inspections:
         a.   Underground electrical: When all piping is installed but before
any concrete, backfill or other covering is placed.
         b.   Electrical rough: When rough is completed but before any
insulation, gypsum board, or other interior finish materials are installed.
         c.   Electrical above ceiling: When all electrical located in the
ceiling has been completed but before the ceiling grid or framing is installed.
         d.   Electrical service: When service is installed but before utility
company service connection is done.
         e.   Electrical bonding pool: When bonding wire has been installed but
before any concrete, backfill or other covering is placed.
         f.   Electrical final: When all electrical work is completed and the
system is installed and operational.
      3.   Plumbing: Timing and description of required inspections:
         a.   Underground plumbing: When all piping is installed but before any
concrete, backfill or other covering is placed. Includes the inspection of
underground radon piping.
         b.   Plumbing rough: When rough in work is completed but before any
insulation, gypsum board, or other interior finish materials are installed.
         c.   Plumbing above ceiling: When all plumbing located in the ceiling
has been completed but before the ceiling grid or framing is installed.
         d.   Plumbing final: When all plumbing work is completed and the
system is installed and operational.
      4.   Flatwork: Timing and description of required inspections:
         a.   Base: When forms, reinforcing and base are installed but before
asphalt, concrete or other covering is placed. (Applies to all work in the
right-of-way and only permeable surfacing on private property.)
         b.   Flatwork final: When the surface is completed and grading is
restored. Parking lots shall have all striping and signage installed.
      5.   Engineering: Timing and description of required inspections:
         a.   Culvert: Two (2) inspections required. One to locate and
establish grade, and one for final inspection.
         b.   Final engineering: When final grading and drainage has been
completed, seed or sod, or other vegetation approved by the City Engineer has
been established, and an "as built" survey, showing topographic elevation
prepared by registered Illinois engineer has been submitted; seal and signature
required. If an as built survey is submitted prior to the establishment of
after vegetation is established. For the purpose of this subsection
"established" shall be defined as vegetation in place that has sufficiently
developed whereby the soil has stabilized to minimize erosion.
      6.   City Utilities: Timing and description of required inspections:
         a.   Sewer and water tap: When the area has been excavated but before
any connection to the City water or sewer has been made.
         b.   Sewer/water service line: When tile or pipe and b-box is
installed but before any backfill material has been placed.
         c.   Sump discharge: When sump discharge line is in place to storm
sewer, ditch, or other approved termination point, and before any backfill is
placed.
         d.   Water meter: All water meters are to be installed by the plumbing
contractor and before final plumbing inspection. Water shall not be used until
the water meter is inspected and approved.
      7.   Fire Prevention: Timing and description of required inspections:
         a.   Underground flush: Flush of water main/fire protection systems to
the structures but before the installation of the backflow prevention system.
         b.   Hydrostatic test: When the sprinkler system is installed and
pressurized.
         c.   Fire alarm: When the system has been installed and ready to be
tested.
         d.   Type I hood and duct: When the hood has been completed.
         e.   Above ceiling: When all systems located in the ceiling have been
completed and approved, and the ceiling grid or framing is installed but before
any ceiling tiles, gypsum board or other interior finishes are installed.
         f.   NFPA inspection: A life safety inspection verifying approval of
all of the above prior to being granted occupancy.
      8.   Occupancy: Timing and description of required inspections:
      a.   Vacant structures: Structures left vacant due to abandonment of any
type, or vacant commercial and industrial occupancies that have been posted by
the City of Wood Dale Community Development Department must call for a
preoccupancy life safety inspection.
      9.   Zoning: Timing and description of required inspections:
         a.   Landscape final: Upon installation of all landscaping approved on
the landscape plan, where applicable.
   H.   Obstruction Of Inspection: No work shall be done which will cover or
obstruct from view construction work scheduled for inspection which is not yet
approved by the building official.
   I.   Re-Inspections: A City-issued building permit shall include an initial
inspection and one re-inspection. All subsequent re-inspections shall be
assessed a re-inspection fee by staff in accordance with the master fee
schedule, unless identified as a required critical final inspection, in which
case said inspection shall be subject to the additional fees specified in the
master fee schedule. No further inspections shall be scheduled until the re-
inspection fee has been paid. A re-inspection fee may also be assessed by staff
if the building official, or his/her designee, determines at a scheduled
inspection:
      1.   The job is not ready;
      2.   The job has not progressed to a point where an inspection can be
made properly;
      3.   Access is not possible to perform the inspection;
      4.   The job site has not been maintained free from excessive
construction debris; or
      5.   Upon re-inspection, not all previously identified code violations
have been corrected.
   J.    Final Inspection: Upon completion of the building or structure, and
before issuance of the certificate of occupancy required in section
12.508  of this article, a final inspection shall be made and all violations of
the approved plans, permit and City Code shall be noted and the permittee shall
be notified of the discrepancies. "Occupancy" and/or "use" shall not be allowed
until these violations are corrected, reinspected and approved. The required
final inspection is a critical inspection. Any permittee, owner, builder,
contractor or agent who fails to schedule or permit the final inspection is
subject to the additional fees as specified in the master fee schedule, which
fees shall be imposed by staff.
   K.   Negligence: Inspections conducted by the City are in addition to
inspections by the owner, architect, contractor, mortgagor and their agents and
employees. Approval by the building official shall not absolve others of their
negligence nor be made a defense of the negligence of others. (Ord. O-18-025,
7-19-2018; amd. Ord. O-23-026, 10-5-2023)
Sec. 12.507. Construction Compliance Documentation.
In addition to the required inspections, the following documentation may be
required by third parties to verify compliance with the approved plans.
   A.   Spot Survey: After the foundation has been constructed and prior to any
further construction of any given structure, the permittee shall submit a spot
survey drawn and sealed by a licensed Illinois land surveyor, which survey
shall show the dimensions from the exterior foundation walls to all adjacent
lot lines and display the height of the top of the foundation walls in
topographic terms. If the required spot survey(s) are not submitted in
accordance herewith, said failure shall subject the permittee, owner, builder,
contractor or agent who fails to submit said spot survey to the fines set forth
herein. Upon approval by the building official, the permittee may resume work.
   B.   Tests: The building official may require tests, or documentation, or
both, as proof of compliance to be made at the expense of the permittee by an
approved agency. Such tests may include but are not limited to soil, blower
door, welds/steel, etc.
   C.   Design Professional Certification: The architect or engineer who
prepares the plans as required by section
12.504 of this article may be required to submit a letter to the building
official certifying that the structure has been built or remodeled
substantially in conformance with the plans he prepared prior to any occupancy
and/or use of the premises. This provision shall not apply to one- and two-
family residences unless the building official determines that the work is of
such an unusual nature that the letter of certification should be required. In
this event the permit applicant and the architect shall be so notified.
   D.   As-Built Drawings: All as-built drawings must be prepared and signed
and sealed by the appropriate design professional licensed in Illinois and
shall be submitted electronically.
      1.   Single Family Homes: A final as-built plan shall be submitted
showing all final as-built dimensions of all buildings and/or structures
erected. The City shall review and approve the as- built drawings before the
public improvements are accepted by the City, as applicable, and prior to final
occupancy. The plan shall show all easements, setbacks, utilities, elevations,
grades, slopes, drainage routes, sidewalks, utility services, trees, and other
items as required.
      2.   Multi-Family, Commercial, And Subdivision Developments: A final as-
built plan shall be submitted showing all final as-built dimensions of all
buildings and/or structures erected. As-built engineering drawings shall be
submitted within fifteen (15) months of the date of permit issuance. The City
Engineer shall review and approve the as-built drawings before the public
improvements are accepted by the City and prior to final occupancy.
      3.   As-Built Engineering Drawings: The engineering as-builts shall be
based on the original approved engineering plans and shall show all items
depicted in the original approved plan(s) for all existing and proposed onsite
and offsite improvements. The as- built engineering drawings shall accurately
depict the as- constructed location, grade, slope, profile, elevation, contour,
rim, invert, stage/storage/volume, specified lid or grate, detail, size,
length, etc., for all improvements as shown on the originally approved plans.
Additionally, the as-built location of all streetlights and associated conduits
and control equipment, installed parkway trees, and all recorded easements
shall be clearly shown on the plan sheets for verification purposes. As- built
items deviating from their approved design may require additional documentation
prior to approval.
      4.   Approval: After approval of the as-built engineering drawings, final
mylar and digital as-built engineering drawings shall be submitted to the City.
Digital as-built submissions shall comply with the formatting set forth by the
City.
   E.   Private Well And Septic: All wells sealed in the City shall provide the
documentation required by and in accordance with subsection
7.310D of this Code. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018; amd. Ord. O-23-026, 10-5-2023)
Sec. 12.508. Certificate Of Occupancy.
   A.   Use And Occupancy: No building or part thereof, hereafter erected, or a
structure which shall hereafter be altered or repaired and for which a permit
has been required as provided in this chapter, shall be occupied in whole or in
part for human habitation or for use until the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy by the building official. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy
shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this
Code or of other ordinances of the City. Certificates presuming to give
authority to violate or cancel provisions of this Code or other ordinances of
the City shall not be valid.
   B.   Changes In Use And Occupancy: After a change of use has been made in a
building or structure, the reestablishment of a prior use that would not have
been legal in a new building of the same type of construction is prohibited
unless the building complies with all applicable provisions of this chapter. A
change from one prohibited use, for which a permit has been granted, to another
prohibited use shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. Changes in use
shall also be in accordance with
chapter 17 of this Code.
   C.   Contents Of Certificate: When a building or structure is entitled
thereto, the building official shall issue a certificate of occupancy which
shall contain the following:
      1.   The building permit number;
      2.   The address of the structure;
      3.   The name and address of the owner;
      4.   A description of that portion of the structure for which the
certificate is issued;
      5.   A statement that the described portion of the structure has been
inspected for compliance with the requirements of this Code;
      6.   The name of the building official;
      7.   The edition of the code under which the permit was issued;
      8.   The use and occupancy;
      9.   The type of construction;
      10.   The design occupant load;
      11.   If an automatic sprinkler system is provided, whether the sprinkler
system is required; and
      12.   Any special stipulations and conditions of the building permit.
   D.   Temporary Occupancy: The building official may approve temporary
occupancy or use of a building or structure for the reason that because of
weather, it would be impossible to complete the grading or other site work, or
in extraordinary circumstances as determined by the building official.
Temporary occupancy shall not be approved by the building official due to
incomplete grading of site work if this incomplete work will create a nuisance
to adjacent properties. Such temporary occupancy due to weather will be granted
only between November 15 and April 15 of each year and shall not extend the
original expiration date of the permit. The conditions and restrictions of the
occupancy shall be listed on the certificate of occupancy and a time limit
shall be established and included. A temporary certificate of occupancy shall
not be issued until the fee as specified in the master fee schedule has been
paid.
   E.   Partial Occupancy: The building official may approve partial occupancy
or use of part of a building or structure provided the area to be occupied is
completely separated from the remaining construction, all life safety systems
are approved and operational, and the area to be occupied will pose no risk or
danger to the occupants during the completion of the remaining work. A partial
certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until the fee as specified in the
master fee schedule has been paid.
   F.   Site Improvements: In addition to the required inspection, the
following improvements and documentation shall be provided by the permittee
prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy:
      1.   The buffalo (water shut-off) box shall be adjusted to grade, and be
accessible and operable.
      2.   All public and private sidewalks on and immediately adjacent to the
lot shall be completed.
      3.   Any replacement or repair to damaged curbs and gutters, streets,
sidewalks, driveways and street lighting shall be completed.
      4.   All final grading within the lot and parkway areas shall be
completed, and a final topographical survey shall be submitted indicating that
the grading has been completed in compliance with the approved subdivision or
site grading plan and that all overland stormwater flow conforms with said
grading plan.
      5.   All required yards and parkway areas shall be sodded or seeded and a
homogeneous grass surface shall be satisfactorily established.
      6.   Trees of an approved species shall be planted in all parkway areas.
The species, number and spacing of such trees shall be in conformance with
applicable City regulations.
      7.   All other required landscaping shall be installed.
      8.   In addition to the construction compliance documentation specified
in section
12.507 of this article, other items including, but not limited to, deed of
conveyance/bill of sale for public improvements to be conveyed to the City,
original lien waivers, easements, and maintenance securities may be required
prior to final occupancy and project close-out.
   G.   Revocation: The building official shall, in writing, suspend or revoke
a certificate of occupancy issued under the provisions of this Code wherever
the certificate is issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information
supplied, or where it is determined that the building or structure or portion
thereof is in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any provision of this
Code. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE VI
SITE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
12.601. Posting Of Permit
12.602. Construction Documents
12.603. Notification
12.604. Construction Site
12.605. Public Safety Considerations
Sec. 12.601. Posting Of Permit.
The permit card shall be posted by the permittee on the site of the
construction work in a readily accessible location so that it is visible from
the street and protected from rain and snow. The permit card shall remain
posted from the commencement of construction until the final approval has been
granted by the building official or his authorized agent. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-
2018)
Sec. 12.602. Construction Documents.
In all construction work for which a permit is required, the approved and
stamped construction documents shall be kept on file at the construction site
while the work is in progress. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.603. Notification.
Notification to the adjacent properties within one hundred feet (100') of the
construction site is required by the applicant for any permit issued for
demolition, new construction or an addition that will add four hundred (400)
square feet or more of gross floor area to an existing structure. Such
notification shall be made no less than seven (7) days prior to the
commencement of any work and shall consist of providing adjacent property
owners or tenants with a copy of the site plan, a general explanation of the
work to be done, and the name, address and telephone number of the individual
supervising the work. Each applicant shall submit written certification, on a
form provided by the City, of personal notification to all adjacent property
owners located within one hundred feet (100') of the construction site as a
condition of permit issuance. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.604. Construction Site.
   A.   Construction Operations: All construction operations shall be conducted
in a manner that least inconveniences the public and abutting property owners.
   B.   Work Location And Access: All work conducted in connection with a
permit shall be limited to the construction site. No permit issued pursuant to
this section shall authorize any entry onto the property adjoining the
construction site or any work for which entry onto property adjoining the
construction site is or may be necessary, unless a proper right of entry has
been secured from the owner of the adjoining property.
   C.   Signage: A temporary construction sign shall be installed on all
construction sites where a principal building is being demolished, a new
building is being constructed or an addition is being constructed that exceeds
four hundred (400) square feet in area. The temporary sign shall not exceed six
(6) square feet in area, or five feet (5') in height. The sign shall display
the construction company name and telephone number, and the site address with
at least four inch (4") letters and numbers. The sign may also display the
building permit in accordance with section 12.601 of this article.
   D.   Construction Hours: All construction related work is limited to Monday
through Saturday from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. until seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
No work is permitted on Sundays and holidays. Permittee will be responsible for
ensuring that all subcontractors comply with this requirement.
   E.   Fencing: A six foot (6') chainlink construction fence is required on
construction sites that are determined unsafe due to the nature of the site,
including but not limited to excavations two feet (2') or greater in depth and
unsecured buildings, or extended delays. The fence must be located within the
property lines, must fully enclose building or excavation, be locked or
otherwise secured when no work is occurring and maintained in good condition.
When required, it shall be in place prior to any work commencing and must
remain in place until the structure is secured and the property is properly
graded.
   F.   Silt Fence: A silt fence may be required in accordance with chapter 17,
article VIII of this Code or as required to control erosion, protect the sewers
or to prevent a nuisance or unsafe condition.
   G.   Portable Toilet: A portable toilet shall be required for demolition of
a principal structure, new construction, additions or remodels if there is no
access to an existing facility onsite, or as required by the building official.
It shall be placed on the construction site prior to any work commencing and
should be placed within the confines of the construction fence, as applicable,
with consideration given to adjacent neighbors. The portable toilet shall be
removed once a functioning toilet is available on the construction site.
   H.   Site Cleanliness: The construction site shall be cleaned at the end of
each workday, including the removal of mud and debris from the street, removal
of snow and ice from sidewalks, and proper enclosure of construction debris and
litter in a refuse container.
   I.   Construction Traffic Management: All construction traffic shall be
confined to one side of the street, unless otherwise approved by the building
official.
   J.   Dust Control: Any dust created due to job site construction must be
contained. Tenting of the area and use of wet saws and/or a hose is
recommended.
   K.   Temporary Trailers: All temporary trailers; offices, models, storage
and cargo containers, where allowed, shall be anchored to the ground. If the
trailers have water and drainage, they must be hooked up to City water and
sewer, no holding tanks. Any temporary electrical service shall be in
accordance with the NEC.
   L.   Noise: The noise regulations in section
14.508 of this Code shall apply.
   M.   Excavations:
      1.   Until provision for permanent support has been made, excavations
shall be properly guarded and protected to prevent the same from becoming
dangerous to life and limb, and where necessary, shall be sheet piled or braced
to prevent any adjoining earth and structures from caving in by reason of its
own weight.
      2.   All open holes and basements on a construction site shall be pumped
out until all excess water is removed.
      3.   No concrete shall be poured nor shall reinforcing steel be placed or
sewers laid in standing water or mud.
      4.   Existing subsurface drains found during excavation shall be joined
to effect uninterruption of flow in a manner acceptable to the building
official. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.605. Public Safety Considerations.
   A.   Occupation Or Obstruction Of Streets, Sidewalks And Parkways:
      1.   Streets, parkways or sidewalks shall not be occupied with building
materials without prior written approval by the building official and in no
instances prior to the issuance of a building permit. In no event shall public
property other than that immediately in front of the lot or land upon which the
work is being done be occupied, nor shall more than one-third (1/3) of the
streets, from curb line to curb line, be occupied. No material shall be so
placed as to render inaccessible any fire hydrant, valve chamber, manhole or
catch basin, or obstruct the gutter or waterway of any street.
      2.   Before any sidewalk is obstructed by scaffolding or other material,
or is removed, a safe hard surfaced temporary bypass walk shall be constructed
and maintained. Pedestrians shall be protected from vehicle traffic by a
barricade or fence. During overhead construction pedestrians shall further be
protected from falling debris by solid overhead planking.
      3.   The person or persons using public property for storage or
construction shall provide substantial and suitable barricades and shall
provide, place and maintain proper and sufficient red lights or flares to guard
and protect all traffic and passersby.
      4.   Whoever maliciously or wantonly and without legal cause, removes,
extinguishes, diminishes or disturbs any light or barricade so placed shall be
liable to a penalty in accordance with article VII of this chapter.
      5.   Mortar beds or boxes shall be so placed and guarded as to protect
the clothing of persons passing and shall not be located upon any street or
public way unless enclosed with a tight fence. Mortar beds or boxes shall not
be placed upon any public sidewalk, and no mortar shall be mixed upon any
pavement surface or sidewalk surface.
      6.   As soon as construction work is completed, all remaining material
shall be promptly removed from public and private property and the streets and
sidewalks shall be cleared and put in the same condition as before the
construction work was started.
      7.   Rubbish or excavated material which is deposited on the sidewalks or
streets shall be removed as rapidly as produced. When materials or rubbish
causing dust are handled, they must be well wetted down, and burning of rubbish
is not allowed.
      8.   Rubbish or surplus materials shall not be thrown, dropped or swept
from any floor above the ground or from any roof but shall either be carried or
lowered in such a manner as not to cause dust.
      9.   Where during construction, an excavation or other hazard exists, the
contractor shall provide and maintain a barricade or fence for the protection
of passersby.
      10.   On a regular basis throughout the period of construction, all
surplus building materials and their packing shall be removed from the job
site. In no instance shall such materials and/or packing be burned on or near
the job site.
   B.   Construction Management Bond: When specified in the master fee
schedule, a construction management bond shall be required in addition to all
other application and permit fees, escrows, bonds and performance securities.
The construction management bond shall stand as security for the full and
complete performance by the applicant of the work covered by the permit,
ensuring the initiation of construction in a timely manner, proper management
of the site, the building or structure is not occupied or used prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy and to cover the cost of any damages to
public property, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   The City shall have the right at all times, at its option, to draw
on the site management bond for the costs, including, without limitation, legal
fees and administrative expenses incurred or to be incurred by the City in
exercising any of its rights under this chapter in the event:
         a.   The applicant or permittee undertakes work in violation of any
provision of this chapter or of any permit issued or plan approved pursuant to
this chapter;
         b.   Damage is done to public property that has not been repaired by
the permittee and the City must perform or have performed the repair necessary;
or
         c.   The applicant or permittee fails or refuses to complete any work
authorized by any permit issued under this chapter in accordance with all plans
approved in connection with said permit. The City's determination of such costs
shall be based either on costs actually incurred by the City or on the City's
reasonable estimates of costs to be incurred.
      2.   If the City draws on the construction management bond, then the
applicant shall replenish the bond to the full amount required by this section
immediately after demand therefor is made to the applicant in writing by the
City. Any failure of the applicant or permittee to replenish the bond shall
result in cancellation of the related permit, which permit shall not be
reissued thereafter except after the filing of a new application therefor,
repayment of the permit fee, and establishment of a new construction management
bond.
      3.   Upon certification by the building official of the satisfactory
completion of the work, that no damage was done to public property and the
building or structure was not occupied or used prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy, the balance of the construction management bond shall
be refunded to the permittee.
      4.   The City may accept a letter of credit or other surety in lieu of a
cash bond; provided, that said surety is in a form approved by the City
Attorney.
      5.   In the event the cost of repairs for damage done to public property
exceeds the amount of bond, such additional cost shall be charged to the
permittee.
      6.   In the event the building is occupied in whole or part without a
certificate of occupancy, the construction management bond shall be forfeited
to the City. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE VII
VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
12.701. Unlawful Acts
12.702. Persons Liable
12.703. Procedures Upon Discovery Of Violations
12.704. Prosecution Of Violation
12.705. Violation Penalties
12.706. Abatement Of Violation
Sec. 12.701. Unlawful Acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to violate, neglect,
refuse to comply with, or assist or participate in any way in the violation of
any of the provisions or requirements of this chapter. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-
2018)
Sec. 12.702. Persons Liable.
The owner, tenant, or occupant of any building or land or part thereof, any
architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who participates in,
assists, directs, creates, or maintains any situation that is contrary to the
requirements of this chapter may be held responsible for the violation and
suffer the penalties and be subject to the remedies herein provided. (Ord. O-
18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.703. Procedures Upon Discovery Of Violations.
   A.   If the building official finds that any provision of this chapter is
being violated, he/she shall send a written notice to the person responsible
for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the
action necessary to correct it. Additional written notices may be sent at the
building official's discretion.
   B.   The final written notice (and the initial written notice may be the
final notice) shall state what action the building official intends to take if
the violation is not corrected and shall advise that the building official's
decision or order may be appealed to the Building Code Board of Appeals in
accordance with article VIII of this chapter.
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in cases when delay would seriously
threaten the effective enforcement of this chapter or pose a danger to the
public health, safety, or welfare, the building official may seek enforcement
without prior written notice by invoking any of the penalties or remedies
authorized in this article. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.704. Prosecution Of Violation.
If the notice of violation is not complied with promptly, the building official
shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain,
correct or abate such violation or to require the removal or termination of the
unlawful use of the building or structure in violation of the provisions of
this chapter or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto. (Ord. O-18-
025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.705. Violation Penalties.
Violations shall be subject to enforcement and penalties as defined in
chapter 1, article IV  of this Code, and in amounts as specified in the master
fee schedule. Any violation of, or resistance to or interference with the
enforcement of this Chapter by any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or
other person who participates in, assists, directs, creates, or maintains any
situation to which no other penalty provision is applicable, is subject to a
fee as specified in the master fee schedule, which fees shall be imposed by
staff. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018; amd. Ord. O-23-026, 10-5-2023)
Sec. 12.706. Abatement Of Violation.
The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the
building official from instituting appropriate actions to prevent unlawful
construction or to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent
illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises or to stop an illegal
act, conduct, business or use of a building or structure in or about any
premises. Such actions can include but are not limited to the following:
   A.   Stop Work Order:
      1.   Authority: Whenever the building official finds any work regulated
by this chapter being performed in a manner either contrary to the provisions
of this article, or, in a dangerous or unsafe manner, such work shall be
immediately stopped.
      2.   Issuance: The stop work order shall be in writing and given to the
owner of the property involved, or to the owner's agent, or to the person doing
the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately
cease. The stop work order shall cite the reason for the order, and the
conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to resume.
      3.   Unlawful Continuance: Any person who shall continue any work after
being served with a stop work order, except such work that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to the
penalties provided for in this article.
   B.   Unsafe Structures:
      1.   Right Of Condemnation: All buildings or structures that are or
hereafter shall become unsafe, unsanitary or deficient in adequate exitway
facilities, or which constitute a fire hazard or are otherwise dangerous to
human life or the public welfare, or which by reason of illegal or improper
use, occupancy or maintenance, shall be deemed unsafe buildings or structures.
All unsafe structures shall be taken down and removed or made safe and secure
as the building official may deem necessary and as provided in this section. A
vacant building unguarded or open at door or window shall be deemed a fire
hazard and unsafe within the meaning of this chapter. Unsafe structures are to
be posted in a conspicuous location near the main entry. It shall be unlawful
to occupy a structure that has been deemed unsafe.
      2.   Examination And Record Of Damaged Structure: The building official
shall examine every building or structure reported as dangerous, unsafe
structurally or constituting a fire hazard; and he shall cause the report to be
filed in a docket of unsafe structures and premises, stating the use of the
structure, the nature and estimated amount of damages, if any, caused by
collapse, failure or negligence.
      3.   Notice Of Unsafe Structure: If an unsafe condition is found in a
building or structure, the building official shall serve on the owner, agent or
person in control of the building or structure a written notice describing the
building or structure deemed unsafe and specifying the required repairs or
improvements to be made to render the building or structure safe and secure, or
requiring the unsafe building or structure or portion thereof to be demolished
within a stipulated time. Such notice shall require the person thus notified to
immediately declare to the building official his acceptance or rejection of the
terms of the order.
      4.   Restoration Of Unsafe Structure: A building or structure condemned
by the building official may be restored to safe condition provided change of
use or occupancy is not contemplated or compelled by reason of such
reconstruction or restoration; except, that if the damage or cost of
reconstruction or restoration is in excess of fifty percent (50%) of its
physical value, exclusive of foundations, such structure shall be made to
comply in all respects with the requirements for materials and methods of
construction for new structures. Further, restoration criteria shall be
governed by provisions of
chapter 17 of this Code.
      5.   Posting Unsafe Notice: If the person addressed with an unsafe notice
cannot be found within the City after diligent search, then such notice shall
be sent by registered or certified mail to the last known address of such
person and a copy of the unsafe notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place
on the premises, and such procedure shall be deemed the equivalent of personal
notice.
      6.   Disregard Of Unsafe Notice: Upon refusal or neglect of the person
served with an unsafe notice to comply with the requirements of the order to
abate the unsafe condition, the City Attorney shall be advised of all the facts
and he shall institute the appropriate action to compel compliance.
   C.   Dangerous Foundation And Excavations:
      1.   Whenever the building official shall find that any foundation or
excavation is in a dangerous condition, he shall thereupon cause written notice
to be served upon the owner, contractor, occupant or person in custody thereof,
if any, by registered mail or by personal service. Such notice shall state that
the foundation has been declared to be in dangerous condition, and that such
dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by pumping said water out of
the foundation and that the condition must be remedied at once.
      2.   If no owner can be located within a timely manner, the building
official can require security measures be implicated as needed including safety
fencing, the removal of water, or other actions to remedy the property safe at
the property owner's expense.
   D.   Emergency Measures:
      1.   Vacating Structures:
         a.   When, in the opinion of the building official there is actual and
immediate danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure or any part
thereof which would endanger life, or when any structure or part of a structure
has fallen and life is endangered by the occupation of the building or
structure, the building official is hereby authorized and empowered to order
and require the occupants to vacate the same forthwith. He shall cause to be
posted at each entrance to such building a notice reading as follows:
   This structure is unsafe and its use or occupancy has been prohibited by the
Building Official, and it shall be unlawful for any person to enter such
building or structure except for the purpose of making the required repairs or
of demolishing the same.
         b.   When a building or structure is disconnected from the City water
system, or the City sanitary sewer system, or an existing private water well
system ceases operation, the building official shall consider this building or
structure as an "unsafe structure" by reason of improper sanitation, and said
building or structure shall be posted as "Unsafe, Do Not Occupy" until such
repairs or reconnections are completed, and approved.
      2.   Temporary Safeguards: When, in the opinion of the building official,
there is actual and immediate danger of collapse or failure of a building or
structure or any part thereof which would endanger life, he shall cause the
necessary work to be done or render such building or structure or part thereof
temporarily safe, whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been
instituted.
      3.   Closing Streets: When necessary for the public safety, the building
official may temporarily close sidewalks, streets, buildings and structures and
places adjacent to such unsafe structure, and prohibit the same from being
used.
      4.   Emergency Repairs: For the purpose of this section, the building
official shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required
work as expeditiously as possible.
      5.   Costs Of Emergency Repairs: Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be paid from the City on certificate of the building
official; and the legal authority of the City shall institute appropriate
action against the owner of the premises where the unsafe building or structure
was located for the recovery of such costs as specified in the master fee
schedule.
   E.   Willful Failure To Abate:
      1.   Any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who
knowingly, intentionally, or without regard to the provisions of this Chapter
causes any work to be performed or completed in violation of this Chapter shall
be subject to the fee provided for in the master fee schedule, which fees shall
be imposed by staff. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018; amd. Ord. O-23-026, 10-5-2023)
ARTICLE VIII
APPEALS
SECTION:
12.801. General Provisions
12.802. Application
12.803. Public Hearing
12.804. Decision Of The Board Of Appeal
12.805. Appeals From Decisions Of The Board Of Appeal
Sec. 12.801. General Provisions.
   A.   Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the building
official to the Building Code Board of Appeals in accordance with the
provisions as prescribed in this article and in accordance with
chapter 3 of this Code.
   B.   The Board of Appeals shall have no authority to waive or vary
requirements of the Building Code. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.802. Application.
   A.   The application for appeal shall be filed on a form obtained from the
building official with the fee as specified in the master fee schedule within
twenty (20) days from the date of the decision appealed.
   B.   An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of the code or the legally adopted rules have been incorrectly
interpreted, the provisions of the code do not fully apply, or an equally good
or better form of construction is proposed. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.803. Public Hearing.
   A.   Upon receipt of a completed application and payment of fees as
specified in the master fee schedule, a hearing before the Board of Appeals
will be scheduled at the next established meeting date or as soon as practical.
   B.   Compliance with strict rules of evidence is not required, but only
relevant information will be admissible.
   C.   When all members are not present to hear an appeal, either the
appellant or the appellant's representative shall have the right to request a
postponement of the hearing. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.804. Decision Of The Board Of Appeal.
   A.   The Board of Appeal shall, in every case, reach a decision without
unreasonable or unnecessary delay. Every decision of the Board of Appeal shall
be in writing and shall indicate the vote upon the decision. Every decision
shall be promptly filed in the office of the building official and shall be
open to public inspection. A certified copy shall be sent by mail or otherwise
to the appellant and a copy shall be kept publicly posted in the office of the
building official for two (2) weeks after filing.
   B.   The Board of Appeals shall modify or reverse the decision of the
building official by a concurring vote of two-thirds (2/3) of its members. If a
decision of the Building Code Board of Appeal reverses or modifies an
interpretation, the building official shall take action immediately in
accordance with such decision. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.805. Appeals From Decisions Of The Board Of Appeal.
A person aggrieved by a decision of said Board, whether previously a party to
the proceeding or not, or an officer or board, may, within fifteen (15) days
after the filing decision in the office of the building official, apply to the
appropriate court to correct errors of law in such decisions. (Ord. O-18-025,
7-19-2018)
ARTICLE IX
MOVED BUILDINGS
SECTION:
12.901. General
12.902. Requirements
Sec. 12.901. General.
Buildings and structures moved into or from place to place within the City
shall comply with the provisions of this article and all other applicable
sections of this chapter for new buildings and structures. The fee to relocate
a building shall be as specified in the master fee schedule plus fees for new
construction and remodeling, as required. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.902. Requirements.
   A.   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to public or private
property on account of such moving which may be avoided by reasonable diligence
and intelligent care.
Notice shall be given by the applicant to each local agent of any telephone,
cable service providers, gas, electric, light and power or railroad company
involved, of the day and hour when, and the place where, such moving
necessitates the interruption of any services provided by any of said
companies, and the moving, cutting or altering of the property shall not be
attempted unless such notice has been duly served.
   B.   No trees shall be cut or trimmed without permission given by the
building official.
   C.   No building in the process of being moved shall be allowed to stand in
any street for more than four (4) hours at any one time, except on legal
holidays and at night and in cases of accident and unavoidable delay due to an
accident.
   D.   Red lights and flares shall be so displayed at night as to warn
passersby of all danger about any building in the process of being moved.
   E.   No chains, tools or other moving implements shall be allowed to litter
the streets when moving is not in process.
   F.   When necessary, the street, alley or sidewalk on or along which any
building is to be moved shall be protected by planking. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-
2018)
ARTICLE X
DRIVEWAYS AND CULVERTS
SECTION:
12.1001. Driveways
12.1002. Culverts
Sec. 12.1001. Driveways.
   A.   Driveways Required: It shall be mandatory for any person constructing
any new building, or remodeling any building where the estimated valuation of
the improvement exceeds twenty five percent (25%) of the estimated value of the
building, to construct a paved driveway in conjunction with the new or
remodeled building unless there existed such a paved driveway to serve the
building being remodeled. The driveway shall lead from the public street and
terminate at the required off street parking spaces provided.
   B.   Plans:
      1.   Plans and specifications shall be submitted to the building official
simultaneously with the plans required with the application for the building
permit.
      2.   All construction shall be done in accordance with the following:
         a.   No person shall cut a curb, build, construct, maintain or use a
driveway leading from a public street into private property until the approval
of the Director of Public Works shall first have been duly requested and
obtained.
         b.   The driveway shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') in width.
         c.   All driveways shall extend to the curb or curb line. It shall be
mandatory to have said driveway installed prior to the occupancy of the
premises.
         d.   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step,
sharp depression or other obstruction on the sidewalk. The grade shall be as
nearly as possible to the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk. It shall be
unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway where the same crosses the
sidewalk constructed of such material as to render it slippery or hazardous to
pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion vary from the grade of the
sidewalk, or to be other than level. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1002. Culverts.
   A.   All buildings hereafter constructed shall be provided with adequately
sized and designed culverts in any drainage ditch over which a driveway is to
be constructed.
   B.   Upon application for a building and/or driveway permit the applicant
shall detail the size and design of all required culverts on the permit
application plans.
   C.   The design, size, location and elevation of all culverts shall be
reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works and/or the City Engineer.
   D.   Two (2) inspections of all culvert installations are required. One
inspection shall be conducted prior to covering the culvert with any fill
material and one inspection shall be conducted after the installation is
completed.
   E.   The Building Department shall be notified of the request for inspection
in the same manner as for all other required inspections. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-
2018)
ARTICLE XI
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
12.1101. Mobile Homes In Licensed Parks Only
12.1102. Park Licenses
12.1103. Sanitary Conditions
12.1104. Lighting Requirements
12.1105. Removal Of Wheels Prohibited
12.1106. Unoccupied Mobile Homes Or Housecars
12.1107. Compliance With Provisions
Sec. 12.1101. Mobile Homes In Licensed Parks Only.
It shall be unlawful to maintain any housecar or mobile home used for human
habitation upon any plat of ground in other than a licensed housecar or mobile
home park within the City. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1102. Park Licenses.
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to establish or operate within
the limits of the City a housecar or mobile home park without a license.
   B.   Application For License; Fee: Any person desiring any such housecar or
mobile home park license may apply for and obtain a license as provided in
section
4.302 of this Code.
The fee for a housecar or mobile home park license shall be as provided in
subsection
4.302F of the master fee schedule.
   C.   Plans: The application for a housecar or mobile home park license shall
be accompanied by plans of the park showing the proposed or existing location
of all buildings, toilet, bath and washbasin facilities, slop sinks, water
faucets, sewer connections, driveways and other improvements. (Ord. O-18-025,
7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1103. Sanitary Conditions.
   A.   Water Supply: An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and
domestic purposes shall be supplied to meet the requirements of all housecar
and mobile home parks. Water shall be obtained from faucets only, conveniently
located in the park. No common drinking cups shall be permitted, and each cap
shall have a water meter. Any privately owned and operated public water system
shall comply with DuPage County Health Department, and the State of Illinois
rules, regulations, and licensure requirements.
   B.   Sewer Connections Required: It shall be unlawful to permit any
wastepaper or material from toilets, showers, bathtubs, washbasins or other
plumbing fixtures in a housecar or mobile home park or from the vehicles
themselves to be deposited upon the surface of the ground; all fixtures, when
in use, must be connected to the City sewer system by means of rigid pipe.
   C.   Removal Of Garbage Required: It shall be the duty of the owner of a
housecar or mobile home park, his agent or caretaker to provide for the
collection and removal of garbage or other waste material and to otherwise
maintain the park in a clean and sanitary condition.
   D.   Sanitary Facilities: Each housecar or mobile home park shall provide
toilets, baths or showers, slop sinks and garbage containers which shall be in
accordance with law. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1104. Lighting Requirements.
All housecar or mobile home parks shall be kept properly and adequately lighted
at all times so that the grounds shall be safe for occupants and visitors.
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1105. Removal Of Wheels Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to remove the wheels or other transporting device from any
housecar or mobile home or otherwise to affix the car or home permanently to
the ground so as to prevent its ready removal. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1106. Unoccupied Mobile Homes Or Housecars.
This article shall not prohibit the storage of any housecar or mobile home on
the home premises of its owner for any length of time when it is not used for
living or sleeping purposes. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1107. Compliance With Provisions.
No person shall maintain any housecar or mobile home used for human habitation
upon any plat of ground in other than a licensed housecar or mobile home park,
except in compliance with the provisions of this article. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-
2018)
ARTICLE XII
RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS
SECTION:
12.1201. Short Title
12.1202. General Purpose And Intent
12.1203. Definitions
12.1204. Construction
12.1205. Applicability
12.1206. Certification And Code Inspections
12.1207. Maintenance Responsibility
12.1208. Penalty
12.1209. Appeals
12.1210. Other Code Provisions And Statutes
Sec. 12.1201. Short Title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the WOOD DALE RESIDENTIAL
CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION ORDINANCE. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1202. General Purpose And Intent.
The Illinois Legislature has determined that each municipality may ensure that
in the event of conversion from rental housing to condominium units that the
property complies with the municipality's Life Safety, Building and Unified
Development Codes to protect the City, residents and rights of the condominium
purchaser.
The purpose and intent of this article is to introduce regulatory elements into
the condominium conversion process to protect the rights of the condominium
purchasers and to ensure that the property meets City codes by facilitating
code inspections by the City which will reduce the possibility of a condominium
containing material defects or be in violation of the City codes such that
conversion would have an adverse effect on the health, safety and welfare of
its occupants or neighboring property, or would place unexpected burdens on
condominium unit buyers. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1203. Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section. To the extent not set forth in
this section, the definitions set forth in the Illinois Condominium Property
Act 1  shall apply.
AGENT: Any person, firm, corporation, association, joint venture or any other
entity or any combination thereof who represents or acts for or on behalf of an
owner and/or developer on the sale or offer for sale of any condominium unit,
excepting an escrow officer acting for a title company.
ASSOCIATION OR UNIT OWNERS' ASSOCIATION: The association of all the condominium
unit owners, acting pursuant to bylaws through its duly elected board of
managers/directors.
BOARD OF MANAGERS: The body designated to act on behalf of the unit owners'
association.
BUILDING: All structures, attached or unattached, containing one or more
dwelling units.
CERTIFICATE OF CODE COMPLIANCE: A written instrument issued by the City's
Community Development Department as evidence of a condominium project's
compliance with the requirements of this article.
CLOSING: The act of transferring ownership of a condominium unit to the
purchaser from the owner and/or developer.
CODE INSPECTION REPORT: A written report issued by the City as evidence that
all condominium units and common elements in a condominium project have been
inspected for compliance with all applicable Zoning, Building and/or other Life
Safety Code standards of the City.
COMMON ELEMENTS OR COMMON AREAS: All portions of the property except the
condominium units, including limited common elements unless otherwise
specified.
CONDOMINIUM: A form of property ownership established pursuant to the Illinois
Condominium Property Act.
CONDOMINIUM PROJECT: The sale of or plan by an owner and/or developer to sell
or offer for sale residential condominium units, commercial condominium units,
or business condominium units, or any combination thereof, in an existing
building or any modification or reconstruction of an existing building.
CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY ACT: The Illinois Condominium Property Act 2 .
CONDOMINIUM UNIT OR UNIT: A part of the property designed and intended for any
type of independent use.
CONVERSION, CONVERT OR LIKE WORDS: The offering for sale by an owner and/or
developer or their agent of a condominium unit in a "conversion condominium",
as defined in the Condominium Property Act.
DECLARANT: Any person who plans to execute or has executed the declaration or
on whose behalf the declaration is executed.
DEVELOPER: Any person or entity who/which undertakes to develop a condominium
unit or building by conversion, as further defined in the Condominium Property
Act.
DIRECTOR: The Director of Community Development or his authorized
representative.
INSURANCE: The requirements as set forth in the Condominium Property Act, 765
Illinois Compiled Statutes 605/12, and as otherwise applicable by State law.
LIMITED COMMON ELEMENTS: A portion of the common elements so designated in the
declaration as being reserved for the use of a certain condominium unit or
units to the exclusion of other condominium units, including, but not limited
to, balconies, terraces, patios and parking spaces or facilities.
OFFERING: Any inducement, solicitation, advertisement or announcement to
encourage the purchase of a condominium unit in a condominium project or
prospective condominium project.
OWNER: The titleholder of property being converted to a condominium.
PARKING SPACE: A space dedicated exclusively to the location or storage of a
motor vehicle in compliance with this Code.
PARTIAL CERTIFICATE OF CODE COMPLIANCE: A written instrument, issued by the
City, as evidence of the common elements' or an individual condominium unit's
compliance with this article.
PERSON: A natural individual, corporation, partnership, trustee, or other legal
entity capable of holding title to real property.
PROPERTY: All the land, property and space comprising the parcel, all
improvements and structures erected, constructed or contained therein or
thereon, including the building and all easements, rights and appurtenances
belonging thereto, and all fixtures and equipment intended for the mutual use,
benefit or enjoyment of the condominium unit owners, submitted to the
provisions of the Condominium Property Act.
PROSPECTIVE PURCHASER: A person who investigates the condominium project site
for the purpose of the possible purchase of one or more condominium units.
UNIT: A part of the property including one or more rooms, occupying one or more
floors or a part or parts thereof, designed and intended for any type of
independent use, and having lawful access to a public way.
UNIT OWNERS' ASSOCIATION: The association of all of the unit owners, acting
pursuant to bylaws through its duly elected board of managers. (Ord. O-18-025,
7-19-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
2 1. 765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
Sec. 12.1204. Construction.
This article shall be liberally construed and applied to promote its purposes
and policies. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1205. Applicability.
This article applies to all multiple-family dwellings located within the City
which are to be developed as conversion condominiums. Such conversion shall
comply in all instances with the Illinois Condominium Property Act, 765
Illinois Compiled Statutes 605/1 et seq., including, but not limited to,
requirements as set forth therein for insurance, as found in 765 Illinois
Compiled Statutes section 605/12(a)(1)(i) - (iii):
   §12. Insurance.
   (a)   Required coverage: No policy of insurance shall be issued or delivered
to a condominium association, and no policy of insurance issued to a
condominium association shall be renewed, unless the insurance coverage under
the policy includes the following:
      (1)   Property Insurance: Property insurance (i) on the common elements
and the units, including the limited common elements and except as otherwise
determined by the board of managers, the bare walls, floors, and ceilings of
the unit, (ii) providing coverage for special form causes of loss, and (iii) in
an amount as specified in the Master Fee Schedule where the full insurable
replacement cost of the insured property, less deductibles, includes coverage
for the increased costs of construction due to building code requirements, at
the time the insurance is purchased and at each renewal date.
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1206. Certification And Code Inspections.
   A.   Required: No existing building, or part thereof, shall be submitted to
the provisions of the Condominium Property Act nor shall an existing apartment
unit be offered for sale or sold as a proposed condominium unit or occupied as
a condominium unit without the prior issuance of a certificate of code
compliance, or partial certificate of code compliance pursuant to this article.
   B.   Notice Of Intent To Convert; Inspection Fee: A developer intending to
submit a property to the provisions of the Condominium Property Act and/or
offering an existing apartment unit for sale as a proposed condominium unit
shall file a written notice of intent to convert with the Director. The notice
shall include a current survey of the property, the address, a description of
the subject dwelling units, and the names and telephone numbers of existing
occupants and the current property owner if other than the developer. The
developer shall timely provide such other information as the Director shall
reasonably request. A code inspection of the property, including all projected
condominium units and common elements and facilities, shall be scheduled by the
Community Development Department when the notice of intent to convert is
received, but not less than sixty (60) days prior to the anticipated conversion
date. The inspection shall be made to determine the property's compliance with
all applicable City Zoning, Building and/or other Life Safety Codes. The
Director or his designee shall issue a written code inspection report after any
inspection or reinspection and immediately mail a copy to the developer at the
address provided. The declarant shall be required to correct violations of all
applicable codes, including any Building, Fire or Safety Codes to bring them up
to the standards currently adopted by the City. The fee for each inspection
shall be as specified in the master fee schedule.
   C.   Certificate Issuance Requirements: No certificate of code compliance
shall issue until the Director finds:
      1.   That the subject property is in compliance with this Code's
provisions regarding zoning, life safety issues and building requirements.
      2.   That the subject property has two (2) parking spaces provided per
condominium unit, or such total number of parking spaces as required by any
variation, special use permit or planned unit development approval providing
for a modified parking quantity.
      3.   That the subject property is in compliance with the landscaping
requirements of this Code, unless said compliance would result in the loss of
parking or the need to relocate or alter an existing building.
   D.   Partial Certificate: The Director may issue a partial certificate of
code compliance as to individual condominium units and/or common elements and
facilities that are in compliance with subsection C of this section. Any
condominium unit and/or common elements and facilities issued a partial
certificate of occupancy shall be deemed habitable. No partial certificate of
code compliance shall be granted for a condominium unit until the common areas
and elements have also been issued a partial certificate of code compliance.
   E.   Documents To Prospective Purchaser: A developer shall be required to
provide a prospective purchaser with a copy of any code inspection report,
certificate of code compliance or partial certificate of code compliance prior
to the closing on a condominium unit sales contract. All condominium unit sales
contracts shall contain the following provision:
   The Wood Dale Residential Condominium Conversion Ordinance requires that the
condominium property and your unit be inspected for conformity with City Codes.
It also requires that the person contracting to purchase have the opportunity
to review the code inspection report and the applicable code compliance
certificate issued by the City.
   F.   Tenant Consent For Inspections:
      1.   A tenant shall not unreasonably withhold consent for the developer
or the City to enter an apartment unit in order to comply with or enforce the
provisions of this article. Except in case of emergency, or unless otherwise
provided in the lease, a tenant shall be given at least two (2) days' notice by
the developer of intent to enter. Unless the tenant consents, or the lease
otherwise provides, a developer shall not undertake construction for conversion
of an apartment unit while it is occupied by a tenant, or create any
unreasonable disruption of the common areas, including, but not limited to,
restricting access thereto, or interfere with the quiet use and enjoyment of
the premises.
      2.   If consent is withheld in violation of this section, the City may
seek an administrative search warrant from the Circuit Court for the limited
purpose of enforcing this article.
   G.   Approval Withheld: No certification or other approval shall issue if
property is submitted to the provisions of the Condominium Property Act in
violation of this chapter. No certificate of code compliance or partial
certificate of code compliance shall issue unless all water bills and City
liens outstanding with respect to any building, or any part thereof, subject to
conversion are paid or adequate surety is provided.
   H.   Issuance Of Certificates Of Code Compliance: The issuance of a
certificate of code compliance or partial certificate of code compliance by the
City shall not be deemed a finding that the City has judged the merits or given
approval to the condominium project. It shall be unlawful to make, or cause to
be made, any representation contrary to the foregoing to a prospective
purchaser. In accordance with this statement, the following provision shall be
reprinted on every certificate of code compliance or partial certificate of
code compliance issued by the City pursuant to this article:
   The City of Wood Dale does not guarantee the condition of the subject
property, or its suitability or fitness for the purpose for which it is being
sold or transferred, and the City of Wood Dale shall not be responsible or
liable by reason of issuance of a certificate of code compliance, or for any
other reason, for any claims arising out of the condition of the property or
any defects or deficiencies therein.
(Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1207. Maintenance Responsibility.
The condominium association shall be required to repair and maintain at all
times exterior common areas, including, but not limited to, parking lots,
landscaping, clubhouse, pool, bathhouse, the exterior of all buildings,
balconies, exterior siding, light fixtures, doorbells, windows, ventilation
windowlike openings, security doors, staircases, railings, roofs, soffits and
chimneys and similar common areas. The condominium association shall further be
required to repair and maintain at all times interior common areas, including,
but not limited to, doors, staircases, railings, carpeting, floor tiles, wall
surfaces, ceilings, fire safety equipment, light fixtures, doorbells, required
dwelling unit fire doors, laundry rooms and their appliances, storage rooms and
their surfaces, water heater rooms and their room surfaces, all plumbing
fixtures within common rooms found in the hallways, ventilation and windowlike
openings. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1208. Penalty.
   A.   Any person who violates, neglects, refuses to comply with, or assists
or participates in any way in the violation of any of the provisions or
requirements of this chapter shall be subject to enforcement as defined in
article VII of this chapter, unless otherwise specified.
   B.   The remedies provided in this article shall be cumulative and in
addition to provisions and remedies provided elsewhere in this Code regarding
zoning, building and life safety regulations.
   C.   The developer and the condominium unit owner shall be liable for
violations occurring in a condominium unit or proposed condominium unit and
each may be cited for any individual violation. The developer shall be liable
for violations occurring in common areas and may be cited for any individual
violation.
   D.   In addition to the imposition of a fine, the City may seek injunctive
relief to prevent a violation of this article, including, but not limited to,
enjoining the occupancy and/or sale of any building or unit. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-
19-2018)
Sec. 12.1209. Appeals.
   A.   All reports and decisions of the Director or his designee made pursuant
to this article shall be made timely and in writing. Any decision of the
Director may be appealed in the manner set forth in article VIII of this
chapter. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1210. Other Code Provisions And Statutes.
This article shall become effective immediately upon approval. This article
shall not be construed to prevent, limit or modify any other provisions of this
Code regarding zoning, building and/or life safety. This article shall not
limit or modify the application of other provisions of this Code with respect
to properties submitted to the provisions of the Condominium Property Act prior
to its effective date. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE XIII
DEMOLITION
SECTION:
12.1301. Permits
12.1302. Service Connections
12.1303. Foundations
12.1304. Vacant Lot After Demolition
Sec. 12.1301. Permits.
A permit will be issued when: a) all department approvals are received, b) a
release is obtained from all utilities, stating that their respective service
connections and appurtenant equipment, such as meters and regulators, have been
removed or sealed and plugged in a safe manner, c) a parking plan has been
submitted and approved, and d) a demolition date has been scheduled with a
contractor that falls within the seven (7) to fifteen (15) day notification
period. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1302. Service Connections.
Before a structure can be demolished or removed, the owner or agent shall
notify all utilities having service connections within the structure such as
water, electric, gas, sewer and other connections to ensure that the connection
is safely and properly terminated. If the service is provided by the City, the
owner or applicant should call the City's Finance Department to arrange for a
final reading and account closeout, and the City Service Department to arrange
for disconnection of the buffalo box (B-box) and water meter prior to
demolition. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1303. Foundations.
A foundation that will not be reused, including inground pools, must be removed
in its entirety. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 12.1304. Vacant Lot After Demolition.
In cases where no rebuild is planned after demolition, the applicant should
submit correspondence to the City stating the reason for leaving the lot
vacant. In addition, a grading and landscaping plan shall be submitted for
review and approval by the City prior to the restoration of the vacant lot. The
work to restore the lot shall be completed without delay after the demolition
has concluded to avoid creating or maintaining a nuisance. (Ord. O-18-025, 7-
19-2018)
CHAPTER 13
SIGN CODE
ARTICLE I
TITLE, PURPOSE, AND APPLICABILITY
SECTION:
13.101. Title
13.102. Purpose
13.103. Applicability
Sec. 13.101. Title.
This chapter shall be known, cited, and referred to as the CITY OF WOOD DALE
SIGN CODE. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.102. Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a comprehensive system of sign
regulations governing the display, design, construction, installation, and
maintenance of signs that will:
   A.   Balance the right of individuals to convey their messages, identify
their businesses, and protect the public from the unrestricted proliferation of
signs.
   B.   Protect the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, morals, and
general welfare.
   C.   Reduce traffic hazards.
   D.   Enhance the physical image and appearance of the city of Wood Dale.
   E.   Protect and enhance property values.
   F.   Promote economic development.
   G.   Preserve the right of free speech exercised through the use of signs
containing noncommercial messages. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.103. Applicability.
No "sign" as defined herein shall hereafter be constructed, located, erected,
moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, converted, replaced, or altered
except in conformance with the provisions of this chapter and after the
issuance of a sign permit, unless the sign is an "exempt sign", as defined
herein. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
ARTICLE II
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
13.201. Interpretation
13.202. Definitions
Sec. 13.201. Interpretation.
For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms are defined as indicated in
this article. In the case of a conflict or inconsistency between any terms
defined herein and those contained in other chapters or sections of this code,
the definitions contained in this article shall be controlling only as utilized
in this chapter. These definitions and the terms used in this chapter are
subject to the following rules of interpretation:
   A.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses and the future
tense includes the present.
   B.   The singular number includes the plural number and vice versa.
   C.   The words "will" and "shall" are mandatory and "may" is discretionary.
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   E.   All measured quantities shall be to the nearest integral unit of
measure and if a fraction is one-half (1/2) or greater, the next highest
integral unit shall be used.
   F.   The term "person" shall refer to any person, firm, partnership,
corporation, company, association, or organization of any kind.
   G.   Any term not herein defined shall be as defined in the following
documents, listed in order of precedence: "Black's Law Dictionary" or
"Webster's Collegiate Dictionary". (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.202. Definitions.
ALTER OR ALTERATION: An enlargement or relocation of a sign or replacement of a
sign face. The changing of movable parts or an approved sign that is designed
for such changes, or the repainting or reposting of display matter, shall not
be deemed an alteration provided that the conditions of the original approval
and the requirements of this chapter are not violated.
AWNING: An overhang made of cloth or a similar material attached to and
supported entirely from the exterior wall of a building which extends over a
doorway or window for decoration or protection from sunlight or precipitation.
BUILDING CODE: The building code for the city of Wood Dale, Illinois.
BUILDING FRONTAGE: The length of the wall of a building facing a public right
of way. For a corner lot, each face of a building that faces a public right of
way will be considered as a building frontage. In buildings with multiple
units, the building frontage for each unit shall be considered as the width of
the unit from party wall to party wall at the front of the unit regardless of
if the unit has street frontage; provided however, that the building frontage
for corner units shall be the width of the unit from party wall to exterior
wall of the building.
BUSINESS: The purchase, sale or other transaction or place thereof involving
the handling or disposition of any article, substance or commodity for
livelihood or profit, including operation or provision of any service or
service establishment, office building or recreational or amusement enterprise
conducted for livelihood or profit.
CANOPY: Any structure, other than an awning, made of materials such as cloth,
metal or other materials approved by the building department with a frame
either attached to a building, or projecting from a building, and carried by a
frame supported by the ground or sidewalk.
CITY: The city of Wood Dale, DuPage County, Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council, as defined and authorized by this code.
COMMERCIAL SPEECH/COPY: Speech where the speaker is more likely to be engaged
in commerce, where the intended audience is commercial or actual or potential
consumers, and where the content of the message is commercial in character. Any
representation of a business is commercial in nature.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION: The community development commission, as
defined and authorized by the unified development ordinance and this code.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR: The community development director, as defined
and authorized by this code or his/her designee.
ERECT: To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend or affix, and shall
also include the painting of wall signs.
FOOT-CANDLE: A unit of illumination produced on a surface, all points of which
are one foot (1') from a uniform point source of one standard candle.
LOT: A parcel of land under single ownership, whether described by metes and
bounds or as a platted lot or lots and approved in accordance with law and
recorded by the recorder of DuPage County, Illinois.
LOT, ZONING: A single tract of land located within a single block which, at the
time of filing for a building permit, is designated by its owner or developer
as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under single
ownership or control. A zoning lot may or may not coincide with a lot of
record.
MARQUEE: Any fixed hood or roof like structure over an entrance to a building
supported solely by a part of the wall of the building, and not supported by
the ground.
NEON ILLUMINATION: Illumination affected by a light source consisting of a neon
or other gas tube which is bent to form letters, symbols, or other shapes.
NONCOMMERCIAL ENTITY: A charitable, educational or religious organization or a
governmental body.
NONRESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT: The area designated by the Wood Dale unified
development ordinance and zoning map excluding all residential districts. These
areas are denoted by prefixes other than an R.
OWNER: A titleholder of record, or if title is held in trust, the beneficiary
of the trust and/or the trust itself.
PERMITTEE: A person receiving a sign permit pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
PROPERTY LINE: A line bounding a zoning lot as defined herein.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Property that is owned, rented, or leased by any governmental
unit, such as the city, park district, school district, county or state for any
public purpose. This shall include all streets, parkways, sidewalks, alleys,
buildings, parking lots, landscaped areas, parks, schools and any municipal
signs, traffic control devices, trees, utility poles, shelters or streetlights
located thereon.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any public or private street, sidewalk, alley, highway or
other public thoroughfare.
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT: The area designated by the Wood Dale unified
development ordinance and zoning map for primarily single- and multiple-family
residential uses. These areas are denoted by an R prefix.
SHOPPING CENTER: An integrated planned business development under unified
control containing two (2) or more retail stores and/or service establishments,
sharing customer parking areas, regardless of whether said stores and/or
establishments occupy separate structures or are under separate ownership.
   Shopping Center, Large Scale: A "shopping center", as defined herein, that
consists of ten (10) acres or more.
   Shopping Center, Small Scale: A "shopping center", as defined herein, that
consists of less than ten (10) acres.
SIGHT TRIANGLE: A three-dimensional volume, the bottom of which is two and one-
half feet (2.5') above grade and the top of which is eight feet (8') above
grade, and the sides of which are formed by the right of way lines of two (2)
intersecting streets or a street and a driveway or a street and an alley. The
length of the sides of said triangle shall be thirty feet (30') along the
street right of way that intersect, and ten feet (10') along the street right
of way and driveway when a street and driveway intersect, or along the street
right of way and alley when a street and alley intersect.
SIGN: Any display, figure, painting, drawings, placard, poster or other device
visible from a public right of way that is designed, intended or used to convey
a message, advertise, inform or direct attention to a person, institution,
organization, activity, place, object or product. It may be a structure or part
thereof painted on or attached directly or indirectly on a structure. This
definition does not include any flag or insignia of any nation, state, city or
other political units, as well as any sign, board or surface used to display or
announce official notice of such political units. The following are various
sign types:
   Abandoned Sign: A sign the facing of which has no message displayed or
illustrated thereon and which has remained in such condition for a period of
thirty (30) consecutive days or more. A sign that has a message displayed but
no longer advertises an activity, business, or use conducted or a product sold
on the premises where said sign is located shall be deemed to be abandoned
after a period of thirty (30) consecutive days or more, unless the sign face is
replaced in accordance with section 13.700 of this chapter, within this thirty
(30) day time period.
   Affixed Sign: Any sign that is painted, pasted or otherwise affixed to any
tree, rock, utility, traffic signal or light pole, standpipe, fire escape,
hydrant, bridge, sidewalk, curb or street, bench or trash receptacle.
   Attention Getting Device: A pennant, feather flag, propeller, spinner,
streamer, string of lights, beacon, searchlight, strobe light, flashing light,
balloon, inflatable shape or similar device or ornamentation used to draw
attention to a particular place, including, but not limited to, the outlining
of structures or premises by the use of internal or external lighting
techniques.
   Awning Sign: A sign that is painted on, printed on, or attached to an
awning.
   Banner Sign: A temporary sign printed or displayed upon cloth or other
material with or without frames.
   Box Sign: A sign that principally consists of a metal or other type of
enclosure, typically rectangular or regular in geometric form that houses
internal sign illumination and provides a supporting structure for an
interchangeable sign face on one or both sides of the sign that is painted,
screen printed, or otherwise applied on a plexiglass or other transparent or
translucent material.
   Bulletin Board: Any sign with a changeable message board erected in a
permanent fashion by a noncommercial entity, which is used to advertise public
events or occurrences that are of public interest, such as a religious service,
civic meeting, or other similar event.
   Canopy Sign: A sign that is painted on, printed on, or attached to a canopy.
   Changeable Copy Sign: A sign where different copy can be changed manually.
The copy is typically of a public service or commercial nature shown on the
same sign face. Changeable copy signs shall not include "electronic message
centers" as defined by this chapter.
   Community Landmark Sign: An identifiable community sign structure that may
include hardscapes, landscapes and communication technology with internally
illuminated display areas and unique architectural elements to communicate
municipal, civic, emergency, on-premises and off-premises advertising or
messaging.
   Construction Sign: A temporary sign providing information about the future
development or current construction on a site and the parties involved in the
project.
   Directional Sign: A sign limited to providing directions necessary or
convenient for the public coming onto a premises including signs marking
entrances and exits, parking areas, loading zones or circulation direction.
   Electronic Message Centers: A variable message sign that utilizes computer
generated messages or some other electronic means of changing copy. The
changing of electronic messages consistent with subsection
13.602B8 of this chapter is not considered an attention getting device. When
time and temperature are the only message displayed electronically, these signs
are not considered "electronic message centers".
   Free Speech Sign: A sign that contains a message related to a matter of
public interest deemed by the person posting the sign, including, but not
limited to, a candidate for office or a ballot issue, but containing no
commercial message.
   Freestanding Sign: A sign, no part of which is attached to any part of any
building or any other sign. Examples of freestanding signs include, but are not
limited to, monument, pole and directional signs.
   Garage Sale Sign: A temporary sign which directs the public to real estate
upon which a garage, basement, household, attic, estate, yard, rummage or other
similar occasional sale is being conducted on an infrequent basis on a
residential property. The term "garage sale" shall not include bulk sales, the
sale of consigned merchandise or include the sale of junk, antique, or used
merchandise as a permitted business activity in an allowable zoning district.
   Government Sign: Any temporary or permanent sign erected and maintained for
any official governmental purpose.
   Historical Identification Signs: Signs for property designated by the
federal, state, and/or local government as a historical location, site, or
landmark.
   Illuminated Sign: Any sign that has characters, letters, figures, designs or
outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as a part of the sign
proper, or by electric lights or luminous tubes so arranged on the exterior of
the sign such that light is reflected from the sign to the eyes of the viewer.
   Inadequately Maintained Signs: Signs that show evidence of deterioration,
including uneven illumination, peeling paint or other exterior finish, rust,
dirt, fading, discoloration or holes.
   Marquee Sign: A sign that is attached to a marquee and is typically designed
to have changeable messages that could be manual or electronic.
   Memorial Plaque: A plaque designating names of buildings and/or date of
erection, and other items such as architect, contractor or others involved in
the building's creation cut into or attached to a building surface.
   Menu Board Sign: A sign used to display a selection of goods or services
offered at a business establishment for the convenience of drive-up or walk-up
customers as at a drive- through restaurant.
   Monument Sign: A freestanding sign that is mounted on or part of a permanent
base where the sign face is supported by an internal structure or other solid
structural features with a minimum width of eighteen inches (18").
   Nameplate: A nonilluminated sign indicating the name, address or profession
of the person(s) or business(es) occupying the lot or a part of the building.
Nameplates do not include commercial copy.
   Neon Sign: Sign comprised of neon illumination.
   Nonconforming Sign, Illegal: Any sign governed by the regulations of this
chapter which upon enactment of this chapter, was in violation of any of the
laws of the city governing the erection or construction of such sign at the
time of its erection.
   Nonconforming Sign, Legal: Any sign which was lawfully erected and
maintained prior to the enactment of this chapter and any amendments thereto,
which has not been abandoned and which does not conform to all the applicable
regulations of this chapter.
   Off Premises Sign: A sign that advertises goods or services that are not
available on the premises on which the sign is located. Off premises signs
include signs commonly referred to as "billboards".
   Open House Sign: A temporary sign which directs traffic to a public viewing
of real estate upon which there is located any residential dwelling for sale,
rent, or lease.
   Pole Sign: A freestanding sign that is supported by one or more poles,
pylons, and/or uprights that is permanently anchored in the ground where the
structure is exposed and does not meet the definition of a "monument sign".
   Portable Sign: A freestanding sign that is designed or intended to be moved
and not permanently anchored or secured to either a building or the ground.
Portable signs include signs to be displayed while mounted or affixed to the
trailer by which it is transported, or signs displayed with wheels remaining
otherwise attached during display, signs mounted on transportable frames
without wheels, signs attached or affixed to a chassis or other movable support
constructed without wheels, sandwich board signs, temporary signs and signs
mounted for advertising purposes on a vehicle that is visible from the public
right of way, excluding signs identifying the related business when the vehicle
is used in the normal day to day operation of the business.
   Professional Directory Sign: A sign that serves as common or collective
classification for a group of businesses located on the same property (e.g.,
multi-tenant industrial parks or buildings, office complex, etc.). Such sign
identifies the businesses located on site and is located to direct pedestrian
and/or vehicular traffic but has no other advertising matter.
   Projecting Sign: A sign that is suspended from, attached to or supported by
a building or structure extending away from the building or structure a
distance of more than fifteen inches (15").
   Public Information Sign: Signs that only contain instructional information
such as "no parking", "entrance", "loading only", or matter appearing on or
adjacent to entry doors such as "push", "pull", "open", and "closed", and/or
matter appearing on display windows or doors denoting hours of operation,
credit cards accepted, and similar information. Other public information signs
include those that identify the telephone, restrooms, and similar facilities,
provided no advertising matter accompanies the sign.
   Real Estate Sign: A temporary sign which advertises or announces the sale,
rental or lease of the premises upon which lot the sign is located.
   Residential Entrance Sign: An identification sign used to indicate the
entrance to a residential subdivision, residential complex, or unified
residential area.
   Roof Sign: A sign that is erected, constructed, and maintained on or above
the roof of a building.
   Sandwich Board Sign: A portable sign constructed to form an "A" or tentlike
shape, hinged or not hinged at the top.
   Scoreboard, Athletic: A board upon which the score in a game or match is
displayed in either manual or electronic changeable copy.
   Shopping Center Sign: A sign that identifies the name of the shopping
center, and may include sign copy for individual tenants, in accordance with
the applicable regulations.
   Temporary Sign: A sign of any type with or without a structural frame not
permanently attached to a building or the ground and intended for use for a
limited period of time.
   Wall Sign: A sign that is affixed directly to, and is generally parallel
with, the exterior wall of a building and projects not more than fifteen inches
(15") from the wall.
   Window Sign: A sign painted, attached or affixed to the interior or exterior
surface of a window, or located within twelve inches (12") of a window and can
be seen through the window from the exterior of the building. Merchandise that
is included in a window or interior display shall not be construed to be
included as part of a "window sign".
SIGN AREA: The net geometric area enclosed by the display surface of the sign,
including the outer extremities of all letters, characters, delineations,
background colors or materials that differentiate the sign from the surface
where it is mounted or displayed. Sign area shall be measured in square feet of
surface area. "Sign area" shall not include the structural supports of signs or
decorative embellishment if not part of the sign face proper. See section
13.302 of this chapter for the description and illustrations related to the
measurement of "sign area".
SIGN FACE: That part of the sign that is, or can be, used to identify, to
advertise, to communicate information, or for visual representation, which
attracts the attention of the public for any purpose. The term "sign face"
includes any background or surrounding material, panel, trim or ornamentation,
color, and direct or self-illumination that differentiates the sign from the
building, structure, backdrop surface or object upon or against which it is
placed. The term "sign face" does not include any portion of the support
structure for the sign, provided that no message, symbol or any of the
previously described elements of a sign face is placed on or designated as part
of the support structure.
SITE: The zoning lot upon which a sign is located or proposed to be located, as
the case may be.
STREET FRONTAGE: The distance along which a property line of a lot adjoins a
public right of way.
STREET LINE: The dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and the
public right of way of a contiguous existing public or private street.
STRING LIGHTING: Lights arranged in a string or in a series, such as tube
lighting.
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE: The Wood Dale unified development ordinance
(UDO) including the adopted zoning map of the city (chapter 17 of this code).
ZONING DISTRICT: A district set forth in the Wood Dale unified development
ordinance. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016; amd. Ord. O-21-028, 10-21-2021)
ARTICLE III
GENERAL SIGN REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
13.301. Location
13.302. Area Computation
13.303. Height
13.304. Illumination
13.305. Construction And Design Standards
13.306. Maintenance
13.307. Landscaping Around Signs
13.308. Master Sign Plan
13.309. Electric Vehicle Charging Stations
Sec. 13.301. Location.
   A.   No sign shall be erected or maintained at the intersection of any
public rights of way, including streets, alleys, railroads, and/or any
driveway, in such a manner that obstructs the free and clear vision of a driver
of a vehicle or a pedestrian. Specifically, all signs must maintain the sight
triangle.
   B.   No sign shall be erected or maintained so as to prevent, or in any way
inhibit, the free ingress or egress from any door, window or fire escape.
   C.   No sign may be displayed within the public right of way, unless
otherwise allowed in this chapter. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.302. Area Computation.
   A.   Individual Signs: The area of a sign face shall be computed by means of
the smallest rectangle that encompasses the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background or the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing, or decorative
embellishment, unless such framework or embellishment is made part of the
message or face of the sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27.jpg]
 
   B.   Multiple Faced Signs: The sign area for a sign with more than one face
shall be computed by adding together the area of all sign faces visible from
any one point. When two (2) identical sign faces are placed back to back, so
that both faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same time, and when such
sign faces are part of the same sign structure and are not more than fifteen
degrees (15°) apart, the sign area shall be computed by the measurement of one
of the faces.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-29.jpg]
 
(Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.303. Height.
Sign height for freestanding signs shall be measured from the lowest adjacent
grade to the highest attached component of the sign. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.304. Illumination.
   A.   Location And Design Of External And Internal Light Sources:
      1.   The illumination of a sign permitted by this chapter shall be from a
steady, nonflashing source of light. No indoor illumination of any type or
illuminated sign when viewed from outdoors shall be of the flashing or
intermittent intensity types.
      2.   Whenever an external artificial light source is used to illuminate a
sign, such source shall be located, shielded and directed so as not to glare
onto any public street or private residence.
      3.   Gooseneck reflectors and lights are permitted on freestanding signs,
wall signs, and projecting signs, provided they are maintained in a manner that
concentrates the illumination only upon the sign face. All indirect lighting
fixtures shall be concealed whenever possible except for stylized decorative
fixtures that constitute part of the architectural treatment.
      4.   If ground lighting is used to illuminate a sign, the receptacle or
device cannot protrude more than twelve inches (12") and must be fully screened
from view at street level by the base of the sign or landscaping.
      5.   The lettering or sign face that is designed to be illuminated from
the interior of a sign shall be composed of transparent or semitransparent,
incombustible or approved combustible materials.
      6.   Sign illumination shall be constant in intensity and color and shall
be of uniform intensity over the face of the sign.
   B.   Level Of Illumination:
      1.   Maximum Level Of Illumination: In no event shall the illumination of
any sign, resulting from any internal or external artificial light source, in
combination with any other on site lighting, exceed more than one foot-candle
when measured at any property line abutting the subject property in a
nonresidential zoning district or one-half (0.5) foot-candle when measured at
any property line abutting the subject property in a residential zoning
district.
      2.   Limitations On Neon And String Lighting: Neon lighting is permitted,
except that neon signs shall be subject to the district standards for the
applicable sign type. String lighting is prohibited. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.305. Construction And Design Standards.
All signs constructed, erected, modified or altered shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter and the city building code, including its electrical
provisions. Required building and electrical permits shall be obtained at the
same time as the sign permit. Signs shall meet the following construction and
design standards:
   A.   Framework: To the extent possible, all nonexempt signs shall be
designed so that all framework for the support of the sign shall be contained
within or behind the face of the sign, or within the building or sign base, so
as not to be publicly visible, unless such framework is of a stylized design
intended to be part of the architectural treatment.
   B.   Secured Attachments: All letters, figures, characters, and
embellishment on a sign shall be safely and securely attached to the sign
structure.
   C.   Wind Pressure And Direct Load Requirements: All signs and sign
structures shall be designed and constructed to resist dead load and wind
resistance sufficient to meet the requirements of the city building code.
   D.   Sign Bases For Freestanding Signs:
      1.   Monument signs must be designed with a solid base or columns
constructed of decorative masonry brick, finished split face block, stone,
hardwood, polymer material with a wood appearance, metal, or other sturdy
material that matches or complements the face of the sign.
      2.   The base of freestanding signs shall be embedded in, or an integral
part of, a monolithic concrete footing to a depth approved by the community
development director.
   E.   Sign Materials: All signs shall have a base and face of noncombustible
materials, unless a combustible material is approved by the community
development director.
   F.   Integration With Building Design: Wall signs shall not cover or overlap
cornices, eaves, columns, window or door frames, wall corners, or other
decorative elements of the architecture of the building. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-
2016)
Sec. 13.306. Maintenance.
   A.   Identification And Marking: Every sign hereafter approved by the city
shall show in a conspicuous place thereon, in legible letters the following
information: the date of erection, the name of the permittee, and the voltage
of any electrical apparatus used in connection with the sign.
   B.   Sign And Premises Maintenance: All signs and the premises surrounding
the same shall be maintained by the owner thereof in a clean, sanitary and
inoffensive condition and free and clear of all noxious substances, rubbish and
weeds. If the community development director finds that any sign regulated
herein is unsafe or insecure, abandoned or maintained in a dilapidated
condition or has been constructed, erected or is being maintained in violation
of the provisions of this chapter, written notice shall be presented to the
property owner instructing him/her to remove or alter the sign so as to comply
with the standards herein within a reasonable time (as set forth in said
notice). Failure to comply with said notice shall constitute a violation of
this chapter. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.307. Landscaping Around Signs.
   A.   Intent: Monument signs are required to be maintained with landscaping
at the base of the sign to soften its appearance and enhance the overall site.
   B.   Landscaping Around Signs:
      1.   The landscaping shall consist of shrubs, perennials, and other plant
materials that grow above the ground level. Turf or other at grade living
ground cover does not qualify as landscaping to meet this requirement.
Landscape area must be a minimum of three feet (3') in width to provide
adequate space for the landscape materials to grow. However, if providing the
required three feet (3') of landscaping would result in the creation of a
nonconformity, the community development director would have administrative
authority to reduce the landscaping requirements accordingly. All landscaping
must be maintained in a healthy, weed free condition.
      2.   For the purpose of enhancing the visibility of a sign, a tree,
shrub, or other vegetation may be trimmed or removed only if the vegetation is
on property under the same ownership or control as the sign. Where landscaping
is proposed to be removed, it must be replaced with appropriately sized
landscaping. If the vegetation is on public property or private property not
under the same ownership or control of the sign, the city or the owner or
management shall provide express written authorization for the work. (Ord. O-
16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.308. Master Sign Plan.
   A.   Applicability: When more than one wall, awning, canopy, and/or
permanent window sign is proposed on any new building with multiple tenants,
the applicant shall submit a master sign plan for review by the community
development director.
   B.   Content: A master sign plan shall provide for uniform style for all
building mounted signage and include, at a minimum, criteria and specifications
for general appearance, color scheme, format of message, font size and style,
lighting, location, construction materials, and sign proportion. Where signs
are to be located on the wall of a multi-tenant shopping center, they shall be
located at a uniform height on the building wall such that they do not cover or
overhang any architectural feature.
   C.   Binding Effect: Upon approval of a master sign plan by the community
development director, no sign shall be constructed, erected, placed, painted,
or maintained, except in conformance with such plan and such plan may be
enforced in the same manner as any provision of this chapter.
   D.   Compliance With Other Requirements: All signs shall comply with the
other applicable requirements provided for elsewhere in this chapter and this
code.
   E.   Conformance With Master Sign Plan: New signs shall only be installed in
conformance with the master sign plan, where one has been approved by the city.
(Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.309. ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS:
   A.   A public charging station must be posted with a sign indicating the
space is only for electric vehicle purposes.
   B.   Days and hours of operation must be included if time limits or tow-away
provisions are to be enforced by the property owner.
   C.   Information identifying voltage and amperage levels or safety
information shall be posted.
   D.   Only signs required to identify the purpose and function of the
charging station and corresponding parking space are allowed.
   E.   Off-premises advertisement of goods and services is prohibited on LED
screens or on any other component of the charging station through images or
sound in conformance with Sign Code (Sec. 13.401). (Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-2024)
ARTICLE IV
PROHIBITED AND EXEMPT SIGNS
SECTION:
13.401. Prohibited
13.402. Exempt
Sec. 13.401. Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain the following signs:
Affixed signs.
Attention getting devices.
"For sale" signs on vehicles. "For sale" or similar signs displayed on vehicles
parked on any residential property when the vehicle being advertised for sale
is not owned by the property owner. Also prohibited are such signs on
nonresidential property where the property owner is not licensed to sell motor
vehicles.
Inadequately maintained signs.
Off premises signs.
Pole signs.
Portable signs. Signs that are not designed or intended to be used as signs,
such as on vehicles or trailers. Other portable signs are allowed as indicated
in section 13.502 of this chapter.
Roof signs.
Signs in violation of permit requirements. No sign shall be erected or
maintained in violation of the permit requirements of article VII, "Permits",
of this chapter.
Signs on vacant land. No sign, with the exception of a temporary construction
or real estate sign in accordance with section
13.402 of this article and section
13.502 of this chapter, is permitted on vacant land.
Signs painted on the exterior wall of a building.
Signs that constitute a traffic hazard. No sign as regulated by this chapter
shall:
   A.   Obstruct free and clear vision at any street, intersection, parking lot
entrance or exit, or driveway.
   B.   Interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal or device because of its position, shape or
color.
   C.   Make use of the words "Stop", "Look", "Detour", and "Danger" or any
other word, phrase, symbol or character in a manner that misleads, interferes
with, or confuses traffic.
Unauthorized signs on public property or within the public right of way. With
the exception of government signs or signs authorized by the city or other
applicable government entity, signs on public property or within the public
right of way are prohibited.
Unsafe signs. No sign shall constitute a hazard to public health or safety by
reason of inadequate design, construction, repair, or maintenance. (Ord. O-16-
013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.402. Exempt.
The following signs are exempt from the sign permit requirements of this
chapter. If the limitations set forth in this section are violated, the penalty
provisions of this chapter shall apply:
Bulletin boards. Bulletin boards as defined herein, that are a maximum of
sixteen (16) square feet in area per side, provided they are located on the
premises.
Construction signs in residential districts. In connection with the
construction or remodeling of a building in residential districts, temporary
construction signs subject to the following:
   A.   No more than one construction sign not to exceed sixteen (16) square
feet shall be permitted per street frontage.
   B.   Construction signs shall not be illuminated.
   C.   Construction signs shall only be displayed on the same premises as the
building being constructed or remodeled.
   D.   Temporary construction signs must be removed within seventy two (72)
hours of completion of the subject building.
Corporate flags and institutional insignias. Corporate flags and institutional
insignias subject to the following:
   A.   Flags of any corporate, institutional, educational, or philanthropic
entity.
   B.   The flag for the corporate, institutional, educational or philanthropic
entity shall be smaller in size than the flag of the United States Of America
and any other government flag flown in conjunction with such flag.
Directional signs. Directional signs containing only noncommercial copy that
meet the size, height and setback requirements of subsection
13.602A of this chapter are exempt. Directional signs that contain commercial
copy are allowed in accordance with subsection
13.602B1a of this chapter.
"For sale" signs on vehicles. "For sale" or similar signs displayed on vehicles
parked on any residential property when the vehicle being advertised for sale
is owned by the property owner. Also exempt are such signs on nonresidential
property where the property owner is licensed to sell motor vehicles.
Free speech signs. Free speech signs are exempt provided that they shall not be
placed within the public right of way or on any public property.
Garage sale signs. Garage sale signs as defined herein, subject to the
following:
   A.   No sign shall exceed six (6) square feet in area.
   B.   Garage sale signs shall not be illuminated.
   C.   A maximum of five (5) garage sale signs shall be permitted for any
residential property, with no more than two (2) located at any one intersection
within one square mile of the subject property.
   D.   Signs may be located on the subject property or within the public right
of way, provided that the sign is located a minimum of two feet (2') from the
adjacent curb and meets the requirements of the sight triangle.
   E.   Only the subject property owner shall be permitted to post sign(s), and
each sign must have attached to it the identification of the person or persons
responsible for placement and removal of the sign.
   F.   Such signs shall be displayed no more than three (3) days prior to the
start of the sale and all signs shall be removed on the last day of the sale by
nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. that day.
   G.   Garage sale signs for a single property may be posted in accordance
with the use regulations for garage sales in the unified development ordinance
and as allowed in this chapter.
Government flags. Flags of any country, state, or unit of local government.
Government signs. Governmental signs, public signs and other signs incidental
to those signs for identification, information or directional purposes erected
or required by governmental bodies, or authorized for a public purpose by any
law, statute or ordinance.
Historical identification signs.
Memorial plaques.
Nameplates. Nameplates, subject to the following:
   A.   For one- and two-family residential dwellings, nameplates may include
the name and address of the occupant, provided it does not exceed one square
foot in area for each dwelling unit. Home based businesses, as allowed in the
UDO, are permitted a nameplate that may include the profession provided that it
does not exceed two (2) square feet in area.
   B.   For multiple-family residential dwellings, nameplates may include the
name and address of the building and/or name of the management company,
provided it does not exceed nine (9) square feet in area.
   C.   For nonresidential uses, nameplates or identification sign that
indicates the name and address of the building and/or the name of the
management company, provided it does not exceed nine (9) square feet in area.
Open house signs. Signs advertising a real estate open house, subject to the
following:
   A   .No open house sign shall exceed six (6) square feet in area.
   B.   Open house signs shall not be illuminated.
   C.   A maximum of five (5) open house signs shall be permitted for any
residential property, with no more than two (2) located at any one intersection
within one square mile of the subject residential property.
   D.   Signs may be located on the subject property or within the public right
of way, provided that the sign is located a minimum of two feet (2') from the
adjacent curb and meets the requirement of the sight triangle.
   E.   Only the current real estate or leasing contact shall be permitted to
post sign(s), and each sign must have attached to it the identification of the
person or persons responsible for placement and removal of the sign.
   F.   Open house signs are only permitted to be posted on the weekend of the
open house, only between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Saturday morning
and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. Sunday evening the weekend of the open house.
Professional directory sign. Professional directory signs shall not exceed
twenty four (24) square feet in area and may be a wall or freestanding sign. If
freestanding, the sign shall not exceed six feet (6') in height.
Public information signs.
   A.   Signs designating parking area entrances or exits in residential
districts shall be limited to one sign per entrance or exit, each with a
maximum sign area of two (2) square feet.
   B.   Signs designating the conditions of use or identity of parking areas
within residential districts are limited to one per street frontage, each with
a maximum sign area of nine (9) square feet.
Real estate signs for residential properties. Signs advertising the sale, lease
or rent of residential property or real estate, subject to the following:
   A.   No residential real estate sign shall exceed six (6) square feet in
area.
   B.   Real estate signs shall not be illuminated.
   C.   A maximum of one real estate sign shall be permitted on any premises at
any one time.
   D.   Signs must be located on the subject property.
   E.   Only the current real estate or leasing contact shall be permitted to
post sign(s) on the property, and the sign must have attached to it the
identification of the person or persons responsible for placement and removal
of the sign.
   F.   The sign shall be removed within one day after the sale closing or
execution of the lease.
Scoreboards, athletic.
Signs displayed on commercial accessory structures, such as gasoline pumps,
newspaper vending boxes, automatic teller machines and vending machines.
Temporary displays or decorations. Displays or decorations customarily
associated with any national, state, local, or religious holiday or
celebration.
Temporary promotional window signs. In nonresidential zoning districts,
temporary window signs can be constructed of paper, cardboard, cloth, or other
similar material, subject to the following:
   A.   The maximum size for temporary window signs must be in accordance with
the total window sign allowance identified in section
13.602 of this chapter.
   B.   All temporary window signs must be maintained in good condition. Such
signs shall be removed no later than three (3) days after the conclusion of the
event to which the sign relates.
Time and temperature signs. Time and temperature signs containing computer
generated messages such as the current time, temperature and date, unless the
sign also contains commercial copy. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
ARTICLE V
TEMPORARY SIGNS
SECTION:
13.500. Purpose
13.501. Permits
13.502. Permitted
Sec. 13.500. Purpose.
The City of Wood Dale recognizes that temporary signs are requested by property
owners to give them the ability to advertise new businesses, properties and
buildings that are available for lease or sale or under construction, and
advertising special sales and events. This article sets forth permitting
requirements and time limits for the posting of certain types of temporary
signs. Temporary signs in accordance with section
13.402 of this chapter are exempt from these requirements. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-
2016)
Sec. 13.501. Permits.
   A.   Sign permits, in accordance with article VII of this chapter, are
required for the temporary signs identified by this article.
   B.   All requests for a temporary sign permit must be accompanied by the
following:
      1.   Affidavit: An affidavit signed by the permittee that states that he/
she understands that the Community Development Director has the authority to
enter his/her property to remove any temporary sign in violation of this
chapter; and (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
      2.   Temporary Sign Permit: Payment of fees as specified in the master
fee schedule are required prior to issuance and erection of the sign.
      3.   Temporary Sign Permit Renewal: Permits can be renewed in accordance
with section
13.502 of this article and upon payment of the fees specified in the master fee
schedule. (Ord. O-18-026, 7-19-2018)
   C.   All materials for temporary signs shall be approved by the building
official. No temporary sign shall exceed a maximum size of twenty four (24)
square feet and a maximum height of six feet (6'), unless otherwise specified.
(Ord. O-18-028, 8-16-2018)
Sec. 13.502. Permitted.
The following temporary signs are permitted, provided a temporary sign permit
is obtained in accordance with section
13.501 of this article. A maximum of one temporary sign per use or business may
be displayed at any one time for a maximum time period of fifteen (15)
consecutive days, unless otherwise allowed. Each business or entity may display
a temporary sign no more than four (4) times per calendar year, unless
otherwise allowed. Temporary promotional window signs in accordance with
section
13.402 of this chapter are exempt from the provisions of this section.
Banner signs.
Construction signs in nonresidential districts.
   A.   No more than one sign not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet shall
be permitted per street frontage.
   B.   Construction signs shall not be illuminated.
   C.   Construction signs may only be displayed on the same premises as the
building being constructed or remodeled.
   D.   Temporary construction signs must be removed within seventy two (72)
hours of completion of the development or building. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Nonresidential real estate signs.
   A.   For each nonresidential use, a maximum of one sign per property per
real estate company or agent not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet. If
there are multiple listings represented by a single company or agent, they
shall utilize one sign.
   B.   Real estate signs shall not be illuminated.
   C.   Such signs are permitted to be displayed for a maximum of six (6)
months, with renewals on a six (6) month basis, subject to approval by the
Community Development Director and payment of a renewal fee in accordance with
section
13.501 of the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-028, 8-16-2018)
Portable signs. Such signs may include changeable copy. This section does not
apply to "sandwich board signs" in accordance with this section.
Sandwich board signs.
   A.   Sandwich board signs used to advertise an open house are exempt from
the permit requirements of this section provided that the open house signs
comply with section
13.402 of this chapter.
   B.   Sandwich board signs may only be displayed during business hours.
   C.   Sandwich board signs shall be located on private property, unless
approved by the City or applicable jurisdiction. Signs displayed in the public
right-of- way must first meet the requirements of section
13.704 of this chapter. Sandwich board signs shall not be illuminated.
   D.   Sandwich board signs shall not exceed four feet (4') in height, and
three feet (3') in width. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
ARTICLE VI
STANDARDS BY ZONING DISTRICT
SECTION:
13.600. Purpose
13.601. Residential Districts
13.602. Nonresidential Districts
Sec. 13.600. Purpose.
These standards apply to signs within the following zoning districts. The signs
identified by this section require a sign permit in accordance with article VII
of this chapter. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.601. Residential Districts.
   A.   Summary Table Of Regulations For Signs In Residential Districts:
 
Sign Type      Maximum Sign Maximum      Maximum      Location     Additional
               Area         Height       Number                    Requirements
Identification
signs for                                             Minimum of 3 See
nonresidential 24 square                 1 per zoning feet from    subsection
uses that are  feet         6 feet       lot          any property B2 of this
allowed per                                           line         section
the UDO -
monument sign
               1.5 square   No                        Only over or
Identification feet per 1   projection   1 per street on the
signs for      linear foot  above the    frontage per portion of
nonresidential of building  roof,        entity; plus the building See
uses that are  frontage or  parapet, or  1 4-square   occupied by  subsection
allowed per    a maximum of fascia of    foot sign    the entity   B2 of this
the UDO - wall 50 square    any building for any      identified   section
sign           feet,        upon which   public rear  by the wall
               whichever is it is        entrance     sign
               less         located
Residential                                           Minimum of 3 See
entrance       24 square    4 feet       1 per street feet from    subsection
monument sign  feet                      frontage     any property B1 of this
                                                      line         section
 
   B.   Additional Regulations For Signs In Residential Districts:
      1.   Residential Entrance Monument Signs: Residential entrance signs must
be constructed of natural materials including brick, stone, hardwood, or
polymer material with a wood appearance that matches or complements the face of
the sign.
      2.   Identification Signs For Allowable Nonresidential Uses: Only
nonilluminated signs are permitted. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.602. Nonresidential Districts.
   A.      Summary Table Of Regulations For Signs In Nonresidential Districts:
Sign Type Maximum Sign Area Maximum Height Maximum Number Location Additional
                                                                   Requirements
Sign Type    Maximum Sign Maximum      Maximum       Location     Additional
             Area         Height       Number                     Requirements
                          No awning or
                          canopy sign                Only over or
                          shall                      on the
                          protrude                   portion of
                          above the                  the building
             Maximum of   ground floor               frontage
             2/3 of the   or 20',                    occupied by
             face of the  whichever is 1 per street  the business See
Awning and   awning or    less; no     frontage per  identified   subsection B5
canopy signs canopy on    awning or    business      by the sign; of this
             which the    canopy sign                a minimum of section
             sign is      shall                      8' clearance
             displayed    protrude                   above a
                          above the                  sidewalk or
                          canopy or                  vehicular
                          awning to                  use area
                          which it is
                          attached
                                       1 per street
                                       frontage for
                                       directing     Minimum of   See
Commercial                             traffic into  3' from any  subsection B1
directional  2 sq. ft.    4'           the site; no  property     of this
signs                                  maximum for   line         section
                                       other
                                       directional
                                       signs
                          45' in
                          height
                          measured     Only one
                          from the top community     Within 700'
                          of the       landmark sign of Illinois
                          display face shall be      Route 83;
                          to the grade built within  visible to
                          of Illinois  the           motorists
             672 sq. ft.  Route 390    municipality; traveling in
             per sign     (Elgin       serving as a  both         See
Community    face, with a O'Hare       "gateway" or  directions   subsection
landmark     maximum of 2 Expressway)  "identifier"  on Illinois  B10 of this
sign         sign faces   or 60' in    for motorists Route 390    section
             per          height       traveling     (Elgin
             structure    measured     both east and O'Hare
                          from the top west along    Expressway);
                          of the       Illinois      Along the
                          display face Route 390     south side
                          to the grade (Elgin O'Hare of Thorndale
                          along the    Expressway)   Avenue
                          south side
                          of Thorndale
                          Avenue
                                       1 per
                                       business,
                                       provided that
             Subject to                it is counted
             the          Subject to   toward (and   Subject to
             applicable   height       not in        applicable   See
Electronic   wall,        requirements addition to)  monument,    subsection B8
message      window, or   for monument the           wall, or     of this
centers      monument     and wall     applicable    window sign  section
             sign area    signs        maximum       requirements
             requirements              number of
                                       permitted
                                       wall, window
                                       or monument
                                       signs
                                                     Only over or
                                                     on the
                                                     portion of
                                                     the building
             The sign                                frontage
             area counts  Subject to                 occupied by  See
Marquee      toward the   approval by  1 per         the business subsection B4
signs        permitted    the city     business      identified   of this
             wall sign    council                    by the sign; section
             area                                    a minimum of
                                                     8' clearance
                                                     above a
                                                     sidewalk or
                                                     vehicular
                                                     use area
                                                     Minimum of
Menu board   25 sq. ft.   6'           1 per zoning  3' from any  n/a
signs                                  lot           property
                                                     line
Monument
signs on
zoning lots
with less    No monument sign is permitted
than 50' of
street
frontage
Monument
signs on
zoning lots
with 50' or  60 sq. ft.   6'
more, up to                            1 per street
100', of                               frontage per  Minimum of
street                                 zoning lot,   3' from the
frontage                               provided that street line
                                       the minimum   and set back
                                       horizontal    from the
                                       distance      interior
                                       between signs property     See
                                       is 200';      lines a      subsection B1
                                       additional    minimum of   of this
Monument                               monument      10% of the   section
signs on                               signs are     zoning lot
zoning lots                            permitted on  width (see
with more    75 sq. ft.   10'          sites with    the
than 100' of                           multiple      definition
street                                 businesses,   of "lot
frontage                               provided they width" in
                                       are a minimum the UDO)
                                       of 200' apart




                          No                         Only over or
                          projecting                 on the
                          sign shall                 portion of
             1 sq. ft.    protrude                   the building
             per 1 linear more than 5'               frontage
             foot of      above a                    occupied by  See
Projecting   building     roofline or  1 per street  the business subsection B3
signs        frontage or  be greater   frontage per  identified   of this
             a maximum of than 25'     business      by the sign; section
             40 sq. ft.,  above the                  a minimum of
             whichever is street                     8' clearance
             less         centerline,                above a
                          whichever is               sidewalk or
                          less                       vehicular
                                                     use area
Residential
entrance     In accordance with section
monument     13.601 of this article, requirements for residential districts
sign
                                       1 sign per
                                       large scale
                                       shopping
                                       center on a
                                       zoning lot in
                                       addition to
                                       other
Shopping                               permitted     Minimum of   See
center       100 sq. ft.  20'          monument      3' from any  subsection B9
monument                               signs;        property     of this
signs2                                 provided that line         section
                                       the minimum
                                       horizontal
                                       distance
                                       between each
                                       monument sign
                                       on the site
                                       is 200'
                                                     Along the
                                                     tollway or
                                                     associated
                                                     frontage
Tollway                                              road right
monument     200 sq. ft.  20'                        of way and
sign bonus                                           subject to   Only 1
                                                     the same     monument and
                                                     setbacks as  1 wall sign
                                                     other        is permitted
                                                     monument     on the
                                       1 monument or signs        tollway and
                                       wall sign per              associated
                                       zoning lot                 street
                                       with tollway               frontages per
                                       (Illinois                  zoning lot.
                                       Route 390)                 The bonus
             3 sq. ft.    No           and           Only over or sign allows
             per 1 linear projection   associated    on the       the erection
             foot of      above the    street        portion of   of a sign
             building     roof,        frontages     the building that is
Tollway wall frontage or  parapet, or                frontage     larger than
sign bonus   a maximum of fascia of                  occupied by  the typical
             300 sq. ft., any building               the business monument and
             whichever is upon which                 identified   wall sign
             less         it is                      by the wall  regulations
                          located                    sign





                                                     Only over or
                                                     on the
                                                     portion of
                          No under                   the building
                          canopy sign                occupied by
                          shall                      the business See
Under canopy 5 sq. ft.    protrude     1 per         identified   subsection B6
signs                     above the    business      by the sign; of this
                          canopy upon                a minimum of section
                          which it is                8' clearance
                          supported                  above a
                                                     sidewalk or
                                                     vehicular
                                                     use area
             2 sq. ft.
Wall signs   per 1 linear
on buildings foot of
set back     building
from the     frontage or
street line  a maximum of
up to 120'   100 sq. ft.,
             whichever is
             less
             2 sq. ft.
Wall signs   per 1 linear
on buildings foot of                                 Only over or
set back     building                                on the
from the     frontage or                             portion of
street line  a maximum of No                         the building
between 121' 200 sq. ft., projection   1 per street  frontage
and 240'     whichever is above the    frontage per  occupied by
             less         roof,        business;     the business See
             2 sq. ft.    parapet, or  plus 1 8-sq.  identified   subsection B2
Wall signs   per linear   fascia of    ft. sign for  by the wall  of this
on buildings foot of      any building any public    sign, or     section
set back     building     upon which   rear entrance over the
from the     frontage or  it is                      business
street line  a maximum of located                    entrance if
more than    300 sq. ft.,                            not on the
240'         whichever is                            building
             less                                    frontage
Wall signs
within the   1.5 sq. ft.
area         per 1 linear
designated   foot of
as town      building
center       frontage or
business     a maximum of
district in  75 sq. ft.,
the unified  whichever is
development  less
ordinance
Window       25% of the
signs1 for   total window
businesses   area of the
on zoning    building
lots that    frontage or
are less     portion of                1 per street
than 10      the building              frontage per
acres in     frontage                  business,
area         occupied by               although, the
             the business Only         window sign                See
                          permitted    may stretch   Within       subsection B7
             50% of the   for ground   across        windows      of this
Window       total window floor uses   multiple                   section
signs1 for   area of the               windows
businesses   building                  provided that
on zoning    frontage or               the maximum
lots that    portion of                size is not
are 10 acres the building              exceeded
or more in   frontage
area         occupied by
             the business
 
Notes:
   1.   Temporary window signs in accordance with section
13.502 of this chapter count toward the maximum sign area provisions for window
signs.
   2.    Integrated shopping centers comprising at least 200,000 contiguous
square feet of land with at least 1,000 linear feet of frontage on Irving Park
Road, a maximum of 5 additional monument signs spaced a minimum of 200 feet
apart are permitted. The maximum sign area of each additional sign is 144
square feet. The maximum height is 20 feet. The additional signs are only
permitted within 10 feet of the lot line adjacent to Irving Park Road. Pole
signs are prohibited.
   B.   Additional Regulations For Signs In Nonresidential Districts:
      1.   Freestanding Signs:
         a.   Commercial directional signs may identify the occupant of the
property provided that the directional message is the predominant copy and a
permit is obtained.
         b.   Monument signs for properties occupied by multiple tenants can
display panels for each tenant provided that the overall monument sign size
does not exceed the maximum allowed.
      2.   Wall Signs:
         a.   When a business that is licensed by the city to operate does not
have building frontage (e.g., bank located inside a grocery store), the
business will be allowed to install a wall sign on the building frontage, in a
location approved by the property owner, up to a maximum of thirty six (36)
square feet in area.
      3.   Projecting Signs:
         a.   Where the city has approved the encroachment of a projecting sign
into the public right of way, the requirements of section
13.704 of this chapter apply.
         b.   No projecting sign may project more than five feet (5') from a
building wall.
      4.   Marquee Signs:
         a.   Where the city has approved the encroachment of a marquee sign
into the public right of way, the requirements of section
13.704 of this chapter apply.
         b.   Individual, freestanding letters may project no more than six
inches (6") beyond the sign face.
      5.   Awning And Canopy Signs:
         a.   Where the city has approved the encroachment of an awning or
canopy sign into the public right of way, the requirements of section
13.704 of this chapter apply.
         b.   Individual, freestanding letters may project no more than six
inches (6") beyond the sign face of a canopy sign.
         c.   No awning sign shall project vertically above or horizontally
beyond the physical dimensions of such awning, wherein any sign located on an
awning must be affixed flat to the surface of the awning.
         d.   The framework for awnings and canopies must comply with the city
building code and section
13.305 of this chapter.
      6.   Under Canopy Signs: The width of an under canopy sign shall not
exceed three-fourths (3/4) of the building overhang projection.
      7.   Window Signs: Signs located within twelve inches (12") of the inside
of a window shall be subject to these provisions.
      8.   Electronic Message Centers:
         a.   An electronic reader board shall only be operated in nonflashing
mode, with electronic changeable copy displaying only on premises messages.
         b.   The scrolling or changing of a static message onto the sign from
one direction only per display shall be permitted, provided that a single
message or segment of a message shall have a minimum display time of at least
two (2) seconds and it may not take longer than thirty (30) seconds to display
the entire message.
      9.   Shopping Center Monument Signs: Shopping center monument signs may
advertise the name and location of the shopping center, as well as additional
tenant names, provided that they are only on sites that are ten (10) acres or
more in size.
      10.   Community Landmark Sign:
         a.   A community landmark sign shall be privately owned and shall
provide availability and display time for municipal, civic, and emergency
messaging and may display on-premises and off-premises advertising. One
advertising slot shall be provided on any digital or other face of a community
landmark sign for the purpose of communicating local community information,
without any cost or charge to the City.
         b.   A community landmark sign may have up to two (2) display faces,
placed either back to back or in a V-shaped configuration. Each display face
shall be no more than fourteen feet (14') high and forty-eight feet (48') long
for a maximum square footage of six hundred seventy-two (672) square feet per
display face.
         c.   The operation of a community landmark sign display face shall be
allowable for a continuous twenty-four (24) hours. Architectural, hardscape and
landscape lighting features of the community landmark sign may also operate for
a continuous twenty-four (24) hour period.
         d.   All message or copy change of the community landmark sign display
face shall be instantaneous. Scrolling, fading, animated, flashing or moving
messages or copy is prohibited. No display face shall change message or copy
more than once every ten (10) seconds. In instances where portions of the sign
display face malfunctions, the operator shall repair the faulty LED module(s)
within twenty four (24) hours or turn off the display face entirely until the
necessary repairs can be made.
         e.   A community landmark sign display face may not message or
advertise adult or sexually-oriented businesses or materials, hate speech, or
use any form of profane language or promotion of any message that would be
obscene in nature.
         f.   A community landmark sign shall incorporate ambient light sensors
that measure the levels of surrounding light and automatically reduce the
intensity of illumination during periods of darkness or increase the intensity
of illumination during periods of brightness. No community landmark sign
display face shall exceed a maximum illumination intensity of five hundred
(500) nits during night time hours (dusk until dawn) and seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) nits during day time hours (dawn until dusk) when the display
face is in direct sunlight. A community landmark sign display face shall not
spill light or glare exceeding 0.3 foot candles of light above the ambient
light level. The lighting measurements described above shall be reviewed and
confirmed by the City Engineer.
         g.   The architecture of a community landmark sign shall incorporate
visual art or architecture elements in addition to its messaging function
thereby creating a unique or distinctive architectural design. A community
landmark sign design shall incorporate one or more of the following
architectural elements: natural or reproduced stone, stucco, wood, brick,
ornamental iron or decorative steel. A community landmark sign shall
incorporate landscaping at the base of the sign and require the operator (the
entity, person, or individual who owns the Illinois Department of
Transportation outdoor advertising sign permit) to permanently maintain the
landscaping. The owner or operator of the community landmark sign shall
continuously maintain the structure and surrounding associated area. The
municipality may require a community landmark sign to display the name of the
municipality or local identifiable community area as part of the structure.
         h.   A community landmark sign shall not be considered a principal use
or structure on a lot and shall be allowed on lots that already have principal
uses or structures.
         i.   Prior to permit application submittal, the community landmark
sign design shall be reviewed by the Streetscape and Economic Enhancement
Committee, followed by City Council. The permit application shall be submitted,
reviewed, and approved under the municipality's standard building permit
process and shall not require additional subdivision and land development
approval. Revisions to a proposed community landmark sign design shall not be
considered a substantial amendment requiring a formal re-submission of a
community landmark sign permit application. Based upon comments received from
the municipality, the applicant shall be permitted to revise the community
landmark sign design as many times as may be necessary to obtain design
approval.
         j.   No community landmark sign shall be allowed without all required
State permits or approvals.
      11.   Cannabis dispensaries (Medical and Recreational):
         a.   Signage for the dispensary business shall not include any
pictures or images of cannabis or the smoking of the product.
         b.   No outdoor, window, or on-site media display of merchandise and/
or products related to a dispensing facility allowed.
         c.   No exterior signage that includes the words "marijuana,"
"cannabis," or any related word or symbol.
         d.   Signage shall be posted at or near all entrances indicating the
restriction that no one under 21 years of age may enter the business.
Cardholders granted medical access under the Medical Cannabis Act over eighteen
(18) years of age may access medical cannabis dispensing area only. (Ord. O-16-
013, 5-5-2016; amd. Ord. O-21-028, 10-21-2021; Ord. O-24-002, 2-15-2024)
ARTICLE VII
PERMITS
SECTION:
13.700. Requirement
13.701. Applications
13.702. Sign Permit Fee
13.703. Suspension, Denial, And Revocation
13.704. Financial Guarantees
13.705. Electrical Work
Sec. 13.700. Requirement.
Except as provided in section
13.402 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
erect, relocate, or structurally alter any sign without first obtaining a sign
permit from the City and making payment of the required fee. Alteration of the
sign face on an existing sign that is not an "abandoned sign" as defined by
section
13.202 of this chapter also requires a sign permit. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.701. Applications.
An application for a sign permit shall be made on forms provided by the
Community Development Director. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.702. Sign Permit Fee.
   A.   The Development Administrator shall issue a sign permit for any sign
for which a complete and accurate sign permit application and nonrefundable
permit fee have been filed and he/she has determined that the sign is in
compliance with this and all other applicable City ordinances.
   B.   All permits required by this chapter are subject to the sign permit and
separate electrical permit fees specified in the master fee schedule.
   C.   In addition, all permits required by this chapter are subject to the
applicable administration permit fees specified in the master fee schedule.
(Ord. O-18-026, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 13.703. Suspension, Denial, And Revocation.
   A.   A sign permit shall become void if the authorized sign has not been
completely installed within six (6) months of the date the permit was issued.
In this case, a new sign permit shall be required.
   B.   The Community Development Director shall give verbal or written notice
to the applicant of denial of a sign permit application together with the
reasons for the denial.
   C.   The Community Development Director may revoke any permit where there
has been a violation of the provisions of this chapter or a misrepresentation
of fact on the permit application. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.704. Financial Guarantees.
Every applicant for a sign permit to construct or erect a sign over or within
the public right-of-way, where permitted, shall enter into an encroachment
license with the applicable jurisdiction, subject to insurance requirements.
(Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.705. Electrical Work.
Only individuals who are licensed and bonded to conduct electrical work, with
the exception of the owner of the sign or his/her designee, may perform
electrical work, including maintenance, upon a sign. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
ARTICLE VIII
VARIATIONS
SECTION:
13.800. Public Hearing Required
13.801. Application
13.802. Procedure
Sec. 13.800. Public Hearing Required.
All requests for variations from requirements of this chapter are reviewed by
the community development commission, upon which the recommendation of the
community development commission is forwarded to the city council for final
approval. No such variation shall be granted until a public hearing has been
held in accordance with this article. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.801. Application.
   A.   The petitioner shall file an application for a variation on forms
provided by the community development director.
   B.   The application for a variation shall contain the following information
as well as any additional information requested by the community development
commission:
      1.   The particular requirements of this chapter which prevent the
proposed use or construction of such sign;
      2.   The characteristics of the subject property which prevent compliance
with the requirements of this chapter;
      3.   The minimum requirements which would be necessary to permit the
proposed use or construction of such sign;
      4.   The practical difficulty or particular hardship which would result
if the aforesaid particular requirements of this chapter were applied to the
subject property and/or the proposed sign;
      5.   The details of the proposed sign, including applicable dimensions
and location on a plat of survey, as applicable.
      6.   A legal description of the subject property;
      7.   The commonly known location (address) of the subject property;
      8.   The present zoning classification of the subject property.
   C.   At the time of filing, the application for a variation shall be
accompanied by:
      1.   Proof of ownership, proof of authority on behalf of the owner or
current contract to purchase or lease the subject property; and
      2.   Payment of the required public hearing fee. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-
2016)
Sec. 13.802. Procedure.
   A.   Authorization: The community development commission may recommend and
the city council may authorize such variations from the terms of this chapter
as are hereinafter set forth in harmony with their purpose and intent as will
not be contrary to the public interest. Variations may be authorized only when
the community development commission or city council has made findings of fact,
based upon the standards set out in subsection D of this section that owing to
special conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
will, in an individual case, result in practical difficulties or particular
hardship for the owner, lessee or occupant of land or a structure.
   B.   Public Hearing Notification Requirements:
      1.   Required Public Notices: Prior to holding a public hearing, the
following notices shall be required:
         a.   Publication In Newspaper: This required notice must be published
at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
         b.   Mailed Notices To Adjacent Property Owners: Where applicable, the
city will provide or have the applicant provide mailed notices to property
owners, as shown on the record of the local real estate tax collector, within
three hundred feet (300') of the subject property, as measured from property
line to property line.
         c.   Posted Notice: Where applicable, the city will provide or have
the applicant provide a posted notice on the subject property.
      2.   Content Of The Notices: All forms of notice must contain at least
the following information:
         a.   An address or legal description of the property that is the
subject of the hearing (excluding posted notices on the subject property);
         b.   A summary of the nature of the application; and
         c.   The time and place of the hearing.
      3.   Timing Of The Notices: All notices must be provided at least fifteen
(15) days before and no more than thirty (30) days before the public hearing.
      4.   Satisfaction Of Notice Requirements: If attempts were made in good
faith to provide the required notices but the owner of the property on which
the notice is served cannot be found at the owner's last known address, or
mailed notice is returned because the owner cannot be found at the owner's last
known address, then the requirement for written notice of that owner will be
deemed satisfied.
   C.   Hearing: Any party in interest may appear and be heard at the hearing
and held pursuant to any such application and such appearance may be made in
person, by agent (if a corporation) or by attorney.
   D.   Standards: The regulations of this chapter shall not be varied unless
the community development commission and city council make findings of fact
based upon the evidence as presented that:
      1.   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if a sign
may be permitted only under the conditions allowed by the regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located;
      2.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances, and the
proposed request will not merely serve as a convenience to the petitioner but
will alleviate some demonstrable and unusual hardship which will result if the
strict letter of the regulations of this chapter were carried out and which
particular hardship or practical difficulty is not generally applicable to
other property within the same zoning district;
      3.   The alleged hardship has not been created by any person presently
having a proprietary interest in the subject property;
      4.   The proposed request will not be materially detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood;
      5.   The proposed request will not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood; and
      6.   The proposed request is in harmony with the spirit and intent of
this chapter.
   E.   Variation Conditions And Restrictions: The community development
commission or the city council may impose such conditions and restrictions upon
the subject property, the location, the construction, design and use of the
sign proposed under such request as may be necessary or appropriate to comply
with the foregoing standards and to protect adjacent property and property
values.
   F.   Findings Of Fact: No variations shall be recommended or granted unless
said variation is granted by means of a conclusion or statement of relief
granted, supported by findings of fact, which statement and findings shall be
transmitted to the applicant not less than thirty five (35) days from the date
for the decision thereon.
      1.   The findings of fact adopted by the community development commission
shall specify the reason or reasons for making the variation, and shall refer
to any exhibits containing plans and specifications for the proposed variation
which have been made a part of the application or which were introduced at the
public hearing as evidence. These forms and exhibits shall remain part of the
permanent record of the community development commission.
      2.   The terms of relief granted shall be specifically set forth in
conclusions or statements separate from the findings of fact.
   G.   Decisions For Variations: The community development commission shall
consider the variation request and shall recommend whether the variation should
be granted. The community development commission shall transmit its findings of
fact and recommendation to the city council within the time limitations
established in the unified development ordinance for public hearings. However,
the community development commission upon its own motion, or the applicant upon
his own motion, may each extend the period of time provided for in the unified
development ordinance for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days per
extension.
   H.   Action By The City Council: After receipt of the community development
commission recommendation, the city council shall approve, approve with
modifications, or disapprove the variation request.
   I.   Notice Of Decision: All final orders, requirements, and decisions of
the city council shall be in the form of an ordinance. A copy of the ordinance
approving the variation shall be transmitted to the applicant within five (5)
business days of the city council's final action. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
ARTICLE IX
AMENDMENTS TO THIS CHAPTER
SECTION:
13.901. General Requirements For Amendments
13.902. Additional Standards And Criteria For Amending This Chapter
Sec. 13.901. General Requirements For Amendments.
   A.   Public Hearing Required: The regulations imposed by this chapter may be
amended from time to time, but no such amendments shall be made until a public
hearing has been held, and a report and recommendation has been made thereon by
the community development commission.
   B.   Public Hearing Notification Requirement: A hearing shall be held on an
application for a text amendment subject to the notification requirements of
subsection
13.802B of this chapter.
   C.   Report Of Public Hearing: Following a public hearing, the community
development commission shall transmit within thirty (30) days to the city
council a report thereon containing its findings of fact and recommendation(s)
for action to be taken by the city council. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.902. Additional Standards And Criteria For Amending This Chapter.
   A.   Initiation Of Amendments: Amendments to the text of this chapter may be
proposed by the city council, by the community development commission, by any
person having proprietary interest in property in the city, or by any
interested citizen of the city.
   B.   Application For Amending This Chapter:
      1.   Where an amendment to text of this chapter is proposed by someone
other than the community development director, community development commission
or city council, an application requesting the amendment shall be filed with
the community development director. The application shall be in a form
determined by the community development director and shall include the section
of this chapter to be amended and the proposed text.
      2.   Upon receiving an application requesting an amendment, or upon an
instruction from the city council or community development commission that it
will consider a proposed amendment, the community development director shall
review the proposed amendment to:
         a.   Evaluate conformity with the comprehensive plan and the unified
development ordinance; and
         b.   Determine whether the proposed text amendment corrects an error
or inconsistency, meets the challenge of a changing condition or is necessary
to implement established policy.
      3.   Prior to the scheduled public hearing, the community development
director shall deliver to the community development commission a written report
incorporating or summarizing the comments of the community development
director, planning consultant, or city departments, and other agencies.
   C.   Action By The Community Development Commission:
      1.   The community development commission shall hold a public hearing on
the proposed amendment.
      2.   In considering the amendment, the community development commission
shall review the proposed amendment, the report of the community development
director, and any oral and written comments received by the community
development commission before or at the public hearing or otherwise made part
of the record of the community development commission on the application. Based
on this information, the community development commission shall submit, within
a reasonable time, a report and recommendation to the city council on whether
or not the proposed amendment should be adopted.
   D.   Action By The City Council: After receiving the recommendations and
report of the community development commission, the city council shall, within
thirty (30) days, review the recommendations and report and may accept the
findings and recommendations of the community development commission in whole
or part or may reject them in whole or in part, or the city council may refer
the matter back to the community development commission for further
consideration. However, in the event the community development commission
recommends against an amendment of this chapter, then it may be approved only
upon the favorable two-thirds (2/3) vote of all of the members of the city
council. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
ARTICLE X
NONCONFORMING SIGNS
SECTION:
13.1001. Purpose And Intent
13.1002. Maintenance And Minor Repairs
13.1003. Damaged
13.1004. Alterations
13.1005. Abandonment
13.1006. Relocation
13.1007. Amortization
Sec. 13.1001. Purpose And Intent.
It is the intent of the city to require removal over time of signs that are
nonconforming upon adoption of this chapter. Any sign lawfully existing prior
to the enactment of this chapter, but which could not be erected in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed to be a nonconforming sign
and may continue to be in existence under the following conditions. (Ord. O-16-
013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.1002. Maintenance And Minor Repairs.
Maintenance and minor repairs shall be permitted, provided that the cost within
any twelve (12) month period does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of its
estimated replacement value, as determined by the community development
director. When a nonconforming wall sign is removed, the wall on which it was
displayed shall be restored to its original surface at the time the
nonconformities are eliminated. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.1003. Damaged.
If a nonconforming sign is damaged in such a manner that the estimated expense
of repairs exceeds fifty percent (50%) of its estimated replacement value, the
sign shall not be allowed to remain and must be removed. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-
2016)
Sec. 13.1004. Alterations.
The only alteration to a nonconforming sign that shall be permitted is a change
in the sign face, the words or symbols used or the message displayed, only to
advertise an activity, business, or use conducted or a product sold on the
premises where said sign is located, provided that the sign is not abandoned as
described in section
13.1005 of this article. Any other alteration or change will be to bring the
nonconforming sign into conformance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.1005. Abandonment.
All nonconforming abandoned signs shall be removed and/or brought into full
conformance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.1006. Relocation.
A nonconforming sign may not be relocated except when such relocation brings
the sign into compliance with this chapter. Nonconforming signs which are
relocated in violation of this section must be removed. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-
2016)
Sec. 13.1007. Amortization.
It is the intent of the city to require removal of certain legal nonconforming
signs within a reasonable time period that would allow sign owners to recoup
their investment, but ultimately reduce sign clutter that can be a traffic
hazard and negatively impacts the appearance of the city.
   A.   Applicability: All zoning districts are subject to the amortization
provisions of this section. The pole signs subject to this section are those
that do not meet the requirements for monument signs of this chapter, including
requirements for sign height, area, location, and/or base design.
   B.   Nonconforming Pole Signs: Nonconforming pole signs must be brought into
compliance upon their replacement, or when altered or damaged beyond fifty
percent (50%) of the original sign value. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
ARTICLE XI
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
13.1101. Dangerous Or Unlawful Signs
13.1102. Appeals
13.1103. Violations
Sec. 13.1101. Dangerous Or Unlawful Signs:
In the case of any sign which is determined by the Community Development
Director to be unsafe or which has been constructed or maintained in violation
of the provisions of this chapter, written notice shall be given to the
permittee or such person having ownership and/or control of the sign. If the
permittee or person having ownership and/or control of the sign fails to remove
or alter the sign so as to comply with the standards set forth herein within
twenty four (24) hours after receipt of the notice, such sign or structure may
be removed by the Community Development Director at the expense of the
permittee or person having ownership and/or control of the sign. The Community
Development Director may cause any sign which in his/her judgment constitutes
an immediate peril to persons or property to be removed summarily, without
notice. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-2016)
Sec. 13.1102. Appeals.
In the event a permittee or person having ownership or control of any sign
disagrees with the judgment and/or interpretation of the Community Development
Director or disagrees with the content of the notice, such person may appeal
receipt of such notice in the manner set forth in the unified development
ordinance. Such appeal shall stay the removal of the sign until final
determination by the City of the issues raised on appeal. (Ord. O-16-013, 5-5-
2016)
Sec. 13.1103. Violations.
Any person or property found in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to enforcement as defined in chapter 1, article IV of this
Code. (Ord. O-18-026, 7-19-2018)
CHAPTER 14
POLICE REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I
REGULAR POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
14.101. Department Created; Members
14.102. Chief Of Police
14.103. Deputy Chiefs And Other Department Members
14.104. Auxiliary Police
14.105. Compensation, Medical Benefits, And Longevity Pay
14.106. Fees
Sec. 14.101. Department Created; Members.
There is established hereby a department of police which shall be under the
jurisdiction and control of the city manager. Said department shall include
such sworn members in number and rank as may be provided for from time to time.
In addition, the department shall include such clerks, radio men, auxiliary
police and other employees as the city council may provide by adoption of the
annual budget.
   A.   Oath: The chief of police and all members of the department shall also
execute the prescribed oath of office before entering upon their respective
duties.
   B.   Witness Fees: No member of the regular police department shall receive
any witness fee for such services in any action or suit to which the city is a
party, and all fees due for such service shall, if paid, be turned over to the
city treasurer. (Ord. 1409, 6-18-1987)
Sec. 14.102. Chief Of Police.
   A.   Appointment: The director of the department of police shall be the
chief of police who shall be appointed by the city manager for an indefinite
period of time 1 . In the event the office of chief of police is held by a
sworn member of the regular police department of the city, in addition to
holding the office of chief of police, such chief shall retain his then
existing rank as such sworn member as established by appointment by the fire
and police commissioners of the city 2 .
   B.   Powers And Duties: As director of the department of police, the chief
of police shall have the following duties, functions and responsibilities:
      1.   To see to the enforcement of all ordinances of the city and statutes
of the state effective within the city;
      2.   To be the keeper of the city jail 3  and have custody of all
prisoners incarcerated therein;
      3.   To keep such records and make such reports concerning the activities
of his department as may be required by statute, ordinance and/or the city
manager;
      4.   To be responsible for the performance of the department of police
and of all its functions;
      5.   To be the custodian of all lost, abandoned or stolen property in the
city;
      6.   To serve writs, summonses and other processes;
      7.   To make such rules and regulations for the guidance of the members
of the police department as he shall see fit. Upon posting, such rules shall
become effective; and
      8.   To perform such other duties as may be required of him from time to
time by the city manager. (Ord. 1409, 6-18-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 2.504B of this code.
2 2. See section 3.604 of this code.
3 1. See section 1.405 of this code.
Sec. 14.103. Deputy Chiefs And Other Department Members.
   A.   In accordance with the statutes of the state of Illinois, made and
provided, all sworn members of the regular police department of the city other
than the chief of police and the deputy chiefs of police, shall be appointed by
the board of fire and police commissioners.
   B.   The exempt rank of deputy chief of police is created hereby. The chief
of police is authorized hereby to appoint from the rank of sergeant a maximum
number of two (2) deputy chiefs of police, who shall serve at the discretion of
the chief of police for an indefinite period of time.
      1.   Each such appointee shall have at least five (5) years of full time
service as a sworn police officer in the city of Wood Dale police department;
and
      2.   In addition to holding the exempt rank of deputy chief of police,
each such deputy chief of police shall retain his then existing rank of
sergeant as established by his appointment by the board of fire and police
commissioners of the city. (Ord. 2099, 2-7-2002)
Sec. 14.104. Auxiliary Police.
The mayor of the city is authorized hereby to appoint, with the advice and
consent of the city council, auxiliary policemen in such number as the
corporate authorities deem necessary from time to time. Initially, such number
may be no more than fifteen (15). Such auxiliary policemen shall not supplement
sworn members of the regular police department in the performance of their
assigned and normal duties, except as otherwise provided herein.
   A.   Qualifications: Prior to their appointment:
      1.   The backgrounds of all auxiliary policemen shall be checked and
their fingers printed by the chief of police for any possible criminal record.
No person shall be appointed as an auxiliary policeman if he has been convicted
of a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude.
      2.   Auxiliary policemen shall have passed physical and psychological
tests to a degree satisfactory to the city and shall have received a course of
training in the use of weapons and other police procedures.
   B.   Powers And Duties: Once appointed pursuant to this section, such
members shall have only the following powers and duties:
      1.   To aid or direct traffic in the city;
      2.   To aid in control of natural or manmade disasters;
      3.   To aid in case of civil disorder;
      4.   To act as conservators of the peace as set forth in the Illinois
Compiled Statutes 1 ; and
      5.   To perform normal and regular police duties when assigned by the
chief of police on occasions when it is impracticable for members of the sworn
regular police department to perform normal and regular police duties.
Such auxiliary policemen shall at all times, during the performance of their
duties, be subject to the direction and control of the chief of police. (Ord.
1409, 6-18-1987)
   C.   Uniforms And Weapons: Identification symbols worn by such auxiliary
policemen shall be different and distinct from those used by the sworn regular
police department of the city, shall be supplied by the city, and shall be
selected and chosen by the city manager. In addition, auxiliary police members
shall not carry firearms unless they have received proper training and then
only with the permission of the chief of police of the city and then only when
in uniform and in the performance of their duties. (Ord. 1409, 6-18-1987; amd.
1993 Code)
   D.   Compensation: Auxiliary policemen shall receive such compensation for
services performed as may be established in the annual budget of the city.
(Ord. 1409, 6-18-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-9-4; see section 2.104 of this code.
Sec. 14.105. Compensation, Medical Benefits, And Longevity Pay.
   A.   Compensation For Injury In The Line Of Duty: The city will provide
salary compensation to any full time sworn member of the police department or
the chief of police who was injured in the line of duty in accordance with the
provisions of the public employee disability act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
345/0.01 et seq.
   B.   Assumption Of Liability For Medical Expenses: In case of an accident
resulting in an injury to or death of any full time sworn member of the police
department, including the chief of police while in the employ of the city while
in the performance of his duties, the city manager may secure and provide
proper medical care and hospital treatment for any such full time sworn member
of the police department, including the chief of police, and to that end may
incur expense in connection therewith to be paid from funds budgeted or
appropriated therefor by the city council or from proceeds of insurance funds.
   C.   Investigation Of Facts: It shall be the duty of the city manager to
make a complete investigation of all facts surrounding any accident resulting
in an injury to or death of any full time sworn member of the police department
or the chief of police in the employ of the city while in the performance of
his duties, to obtain the statements of all material witnesses and to present a
report thereof. Such report shall also show the date and hour of any such
accident, the place of occurrence of same, the names and addresses of
witnesses, the apparent nature and extent of the injury and whether the injury
or death was caused under circumstances creating a legal liability for damages
on the part of some person other than the city.
   D.   Payment Of Expenses: All bills showing the items of expense incurred
for any medical care and hospital treatment referred to in subsection B of this
section, shall be presented to the city manager, who shall make a determination
as to the reasonableness of the charges made for the services so rendered and
recommend payment to cover the items of expense.
   E.   Reimbursement By Third Person: If the city manager is of the opinion
that any accident referred to in this section created a legal liability for
damages on the part of some person other than the city, it shall be the duty of
the city manager to demand from such person reimbursement to the city for the
amount expended by the city for the medical care and hospital treatment of any
such full time sworn member of the police department or the chief of police. In
default of payment of such amount so expended, the city manager may cause
proceedings to be filed to recover for the city the amount so expended. (Ord.
1848, 5-16-1996)
   F.    Longevity Pay: Any full time sworn supervisor members of the police
department with the rank of Sergeant or above who complete twenty-five (25) or
more years of continuous employment as a police officer with the city,
including the Chief of Police, shall be entitled to receive longevity pay in
accordance with and subject to the following:
      1.   For every sworn supervisor with the rank of Sergeant or above and
more than 15 years of service, the City shall budget and appropriate sufficient
monies, on an annual basis, an annual amount according to the following scale
that will be restricted for payment of longevity upon the retirement of the
supervisor who completes twenty-five (25) or more years of employment with the
City of Wood Dale. The employee will not receive the annual longevity payments
that are provided to all other City employees who have 15 years of service or
more.
 
Years 15-19 $800 per year
Years 20-24 $1,000 per year
Years 25+   $1,500 per year
 
      2.   In order to be eligible for said longevity pay, the employee shall
tender an irrevocable letter of resignation with an effective date certain of
said resignation, substantially in the form of exhibit A attached to this
ordinance and incorporated herein by reference.
      3.   The amount of longevity pay shall be an additional amount based upon
the employee's annual wages equal to the applicable percentage of the amount of
such annual wages as set forth below:
 
30 or more years of service 12 percent
25 or more years of service 8 percent
 
      4.   If the sworn supervisor leaves prior to achieving twenty-five (25)
years of employment with the City of Wood Dale, they shall not be entitled to
any longevity payments from the designated amounts set forth in Section I or 3
above.
      5.   Such longevity pay shall be payable prior to the supervisor's
retirement, on the last compensable period of time covered by the pay period
which includes the employee's last day of employment in connection with his or
her voluntary resignation in good standing from the City. Such longevity pay
shall be annualized for pension purposes.
      6.   Such longevity pay shall be excluded from the calculation of payment
of all earned and unused vacation or any other compensable leave as of such
employee's date of retirement. (Ord. O-04-038, 10-7-2004; amd. Ord. O-19-008,
5-2-2019)
Sec. 14.106. Fees.
The Police Department shall charge fees for documents as specified in the
master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE II
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
14.201. Definitions
14.202. Automatic Protection Devices
14.203. False Alarms
Sec. 14.201. Definitions.
AUTOMATIC PROTECTION DEVICE: Any electrically operated instrument composed of
sensory apparatus and related hardware which automatically sends over primary
trunk lines, by direct connection or radio signal or otherwise, prerecorded
voice alarm upon receipt of a stimulus from the sensory apparatus that has
detected a physical force or condition inherently characteristic of a fire or
unauthorized intrusion.
FALSE ALARM: Shall include the activation of an alarm system through mechanical
failure, malfunction, improper installation, or negligence of the alarm user or
alarm business requiring, requesting, or resulting in a response on the part of
the Police Department when in fact there has been no hazard requiring urgent
attention, but shall not include alarm activation caused by or through power
outages, severe thunderstorms, tornadoes, earthquakes, or similar conditions
beyond the control of the alarm user or alarm business. (Ord. O-16-005, 3-3-
2016)
Sec. 14.202. Automatic Protection Devices.
   A.   Automatic Protection Devices Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to use, cause or be permitted to use, or engage in the business of
providing any automatic protection device or devices within the City.
   B.   Disconnection Of Existing Devices: Within ninety (90) days after the
effective date hereof, all automatic protection devices located within the City
which are hooked up to or keyed to a primary trunk line of the Wood Dale Police
Department shall be disconnected therefrom, which disconnection shall be
accomplished by the owner, lessee or user thereof.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   At the effective date hereof, any alarm equipment supplier who
installs an automatic protection device within the corporate limits of the City
in violation of subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction, shall be fined as specified in the master fee schedule.
      2.   Any person who shall use, cause or permit to be used automatic
protection devices in violation of the terms of subsection A of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be fined as
specified in the master fee schedule. Each day that an automatic protection
device exists in violation of the terms of subsection A of this section shall
be deemed a separate and distinct violation of this section. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-
19-2018)
Sec. 14.203. False Alarms.
   A.   Three False Alarms In A Calendar Year: Upon the receipt by the Police
Department of three (3) false alarms in any given calendar year for a retail,
commercial, or industrial business, the Police Department shall notify the
owner of the occurrence of these false alarms and the provisions of this Code
that will be enforced if additional false alarms are received during the
calendar year. The notification will be completed on a letter produced by the
Police Department and delivered to the alarm owner via U.S. mail or hand
delivery.
   B.   More Than Three False Alarms In A Calendar Year: Upon the receipt of
more than three (3) false alarms in any given calendar year of an alarm system
from a retail, commercial, or industrial business, the owner shall be charged a
service fee for false alarms emanating from the alarm system that result in a
response by the Police Department, during the calendar year starting January 1
through December 31, as specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024,
7-19-2018)
   C.   Restricted Response Of Police Department Personnel: In the event that a
false alarm is received from a location twelve (12) or more times in a calendar
year, or in the event of nonpayment of the fees for previous responses for
false alarms within sixty (60) days, the Chief of Police may order the
restricted response of Police Department personnel. This restricted response
would not apply to panic, duress or holdup alarms.
   D.   Appeals:
      1.   Upon receipt of a notice alleging violations of this Code regarding
false alarms, the owner of the alarm may request a review of the allegations by
contacting the Chief of Police in writing.
      2.   The request for review should include the reasons that the owner
does not feel that the service charges are justified, and any extenuating
circumstances that should be considered.
      3.   The request for review must occur within fourteen (14) days of the
mailing of the notice of violation.
      4.   The review will be completed by the Chief of Police or his designee
within fourteen (14) days and the alarm owner will be notified of the findings
of the review.
      5.   If the alarm owner is not satisfied with the results of the review
by the Chief of Police or his designee, the owner can seek administrative
review in accordance with chapter 18 of this Code. (Ord. O-16-005, 3-3-2016)
ARTICLE III
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
14.301. Definitions
14.301.1. Interim Emergency Successor
14.302. Declaration Of Emergency
14.303. Curfew
14.304. Additional Powers Of Mayor
14.305. Immunity
14.306. Utilization Of City Personnel, Equipment, Supplies And Facilities
14.307. National Incident Management System
Sec. 14.301. Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated
below:
CIVIL EMERGENCY: A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute same by three (3) or more persons acting together without authority
of law, or any natural disaster or manmade calamity including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion resulting in the death
or injury of persons or the destruction of property to such an extent that
extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises except officials of any governmental unit and
persons officially designated to duty with reference to a civil emergency.
MAYOR: The incumbent mayor, his or her interim emergency successor, or the
emergency successor to the incumbent mayor appointed by the city council as
provided for in section 14.301.1 of this article.
UNAVAILABLE: "Unavailable" as defined in section 3 of the emergency interim
executive succession act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 275/3. (1976 Code §8-27;
amd. Ord. O-03-038, 12-18-2003)
Sec. 14.301.1. Interim Emergency Successor.
   A.   Interim Emergency Successor To Incumbent Mayor: In accordance with the
emergency interim executive succession act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 275/
1 et seq., the following officers in the order indicated are hereby designated
interim emergency successors to the incumbent mayor or the officer immediately
proceeding in order, as applicable, if the incumbent mayor or officer
immediately proceeding is unavailable: 1) the city manager; 2) the police
chief; and 3) the director of city services. Any officer acting as interim
emergency successor to the incumbent mayor in accordance with this section
shall continue to so act until the incumbent mayor is able to resume the
exercise of the powers and discharge the duties of office, or until appointment
of an emergency successor to the incumbent mayor by the city council as
provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Successor To Incumbent Mayor: If the incumbent mayor is still
unavailable after any interim emergency successor assumes authority hereunder,
the city council, as soon as practicable, shall convene and appoint an
emergency successor to the incumbent mayor to exercise the duties and
responsibilities of the mayor under this article. Upon the appointment of said
emergency successor, all authority of the interim emergency successor hereunder
shall cease. Any person appointed emergency successor to the incumbent mayor by
the city council shall continue to exercise the duties and responsibilities of
the mayor according to the provisions of this article for so long as the
incumbent mayor shall be unavailable, unless and until the city council shall
appoint another person as emergency successor.
   C.   Interim Emergency Successors To City Clerk, Chief Of Police, And
Emergency Management Staff: Within thirty (30) days of the adoption of this
section, the city clerk, chief of police, and each member of the city's
emergency management staff shall designate in writing, by title or position, an
interim emergency successor and file such with the city clerk, with a copy to
the head of the city's emergency management staff. In the event of a
proclamation of a civil emergency and the unavailability of the city clerk,
chief of police, or particular emergency management staff member, his or her
interim emergency successor shall exercise all duties and responsibilities of
his or her office or position for so long as the proclamation shall be in
effect, until the city clerk, chief of police or emergency management staff
member ceases to be unavailable or until a person to succeed the interim
emergency successor is appointed by the city council. (Ord. O-03-038, 12-18-
2003)
Sec. 14.302. Declaration Of Emergency.
   A.   Proclamation By The Mayor: When a "civil emergency" as defined herein
exists, the mayor shall declare its existence by means of a written
proclamation. The mayor shall not exercise any powers granted him under this
article unless the proclamation shall contain a statement finding that a "civil
emergency" as defined herein exists, set forth facts to substantiate such
finding, describe the nature of the emergency, expressly declare that a civil
emergency exists, and be signed, under oath, by the mayor. Such proclamation
shall be filed as soon as practicable with the city clerk. Only the "mayor", as
defined herein, may proclaim a civil emergency involving the powers of this
article. No other city official or official from another jurisdiction operating
within the city under a mutual agreement may proclaim a civil emergency within
the city. (Ord. O-03-038, 12-18-2003)
   B.   Notice Of Proclamation: Upon the issuance of the proclamation herein
authorized, the chief of police shall notify the news media situated within the
city and shall cause three (3) copies of the proclamation declaring the
existence of the emergency to be posted at the municipal building, the post
office and the fire hall. (1976 Code §8-30)
   C.   Termination Of Proclamation: Unless sooner terminated by a proclamation
of the mayor, the mayor's emergency proclamation shall be in effect until
ratified, amended, or terminated by the city council and, in any event, shall
not remain in effect in excess of seven (7) days after issuance nor be renewed
or reproclaimed beyond such period without consent of the city council. (Ord.
O-03-038, 12-18-2003)
Sec. 14.303. Curfew.
After proclamation of a civil emergency by the mayor, he may order a general
curfew applicable to such geographical areas as he deems advisable and
applicable during such hours of the day or night as he deems necessary in the
interest of the public safety and welfare. (1976 Code §8-31)
Sec. 14.304. Additional Powers Of Mayor.
While proclamation is in effect, subject to any direction, instruction,
restriction, or prohibition by the city council, the mayor may, in the interest
of public safety and welfare: (Ord. O-03-038, 12-18-2003)
   A.   Liquor Establishments Closed 1 : Order the closing of all retail
alcoholic liquor stores including taverns and private clubs or portions thereof
wherein the consumption of intoxicating liquor and beer is permitted.
   B.   Liquor Sales Stopped 2 : Order the discontinuance of the sale of
alcoholic liquor by any wholesaler or retailer.
   C.   Gasoline Sales Stopped: Order the discontinuance of selling,
distributing or giving away of any gasoline or other liquid flammable or
combustible products in any container other than a gasoline tank properly
affixed to a motor vehicle.
   D.   Firearms Sales Stopped: Order the discontinuance of selling,
distributing, dispensing or giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any
character whatsoever. (1976 Code §8-32)
   E.   Suspend Provisions Of City Ordinances: Except for the provisions of
this article, the mayor may suspend the provisions of any ordinance or
resolution prescribing procedures for the conduct of city business, or the
orders, rules and regulations of any city department or agency, if compliance
with the provisions thereof would prevent, hinder, or delay any action needed
to address a civil emergency.
   F.   Additional Orders: Issue such other orders as are immediately necessary
for the protection of life and property. (Ord. O-03-038, 12-18-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. Liquor control regulations are in chapter 5 of this code.
2 2. Liquor control regulations are in chapter 5 of this code.
Sec. 14.305. Immunity.
Neither the city of Wood Dale, nor, except in cases of wilful misconduct, the
mayor, the city manager, or the officers, employees, volunteers, or
representatives engaged in any emergency management response or recovery
activities, while complying with or attempting to comply with this article is
liable for the death of or any injury to persons or damage to property, as a
result of such activity. This section does not, however, affect the right of
any person to receive benefits to which he would otherwise be entitled under
this article under the workers' compensation act or the workers' occupational
disease act, or under any pension law, and this section does not affect the
right of any such person to receive any benefits or compensation under any act
of congress. (Ord. O-03-038, 12-18-2003)
Sec. 14.306. Utilization Of City Personnel, Equipment, Supplies And Facilities.
In carrying out the provisions of this article while a civil emergency
proclamation is in effect, the mayor and emergency management staff may utilize
to the fullest all personnel, equipment, supplies, and facilities of the city
in their preparations for civil emergency mitigation. All officers and
personnel of the various city departments shall assist with such mitigation as
the mayor and emergency management staff may direct. (Ord. O-03-038, 12-18-
2003)
Sec. 14.307. National Incident Management System.
   A.   To the fullest extent permitted under law, the city council adopts and
hereby declares the national incident management system ("NIMS"), provided for
by the homeland security presidential directive, issued by the president of the
United States on February 28, 2003, to be the public policy of the city of Wood
Dale in relation to preparation for, preventing, responding to, recovering
from, and mitigating critical incidents and continued threat of such incidents.
   B.   The interpretation and implementation of the city's emergency
procedures, as provided for in this article and elsewhere in this code, shall,
to the fullest extent permitted under law, adhere to and be consonant with all
federal standards and guidelines now or hereafter promulgated by the department
of homeland security for determining whether a local entity has adopted the
NIMS.
   C.   The chief of police, or his designee, shall periodically recommend such
revisions or additions to this article as may be deemed required by the NIMS.
(Ord. O-04-036, 9-16-2004)
ARTICLE IV
ANIMALS AND ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
14.401. Rules And Definitions
14.402. Certain Animals Restricted
14.403. Animal Care
14.404. Prohibited Acts And Conditions
14.405. Diseased Animals
14.406. Killing Dangerous Animals
14.407. Impoundment And Redemption Procedures
14.408. Registration Required
14.409. Running At Large
14.410. Rabies Control
14.411. Removal Of Excrement
14.412. Intergovernmental Cooperation
14.413. Penalty
Sec. 14.401. Rules And Definitions.
   A.   Rules Of Word Construction: The language set forth in the text of this
article shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of
construction:
      1.   The singular number includes the plural number and the plural the
singular.
      2.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
      3.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   Definitions: Whenever the following words and phrases are used in this
article, they shall have the meanings as described herein:
   ANIMAL: A dog, cat or other living creature, the keeping of which is not
otherwise prohibited under the terms of this article.
   BITE: Any cutting, wounding, piercing or tearing with the teeth, including
contact of saliva with any break or any abrasion of the skin.
   CAT: Any animal which is classified as Felis domestica.
   DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog, including, but not limited to, any vicious dog, upon
any public or private property, which dog when either unmuzzled, unleashed or
unattended by its owner or a member of its owner's family, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any other animal or person in an apparent
attitude of attack.
   DOG: Any animal which is classified as Canis familiaris.
   ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure, forming or causing an enclosure suitable to
confine a vicious dog. Such enclosure shall be securely locked and designed in
such a way so as to prevent the entry therein of children or animals, and to
prevent the vicious dog from escaping therefrom. Any such enclosure must be
adequately lighted and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   FERAL CAT: Any cat that is undomesticated or untamed or has returned to an
undomesticated or untamed state and is living in the wild.
   IMPOUNDED: Take into custody of the city.
   OWNER: Any person, firm, partnership, trustee, association or corporation.
   RUN LINE: A system of tying a dog in place with either a rope or chain
having a tensile strength of at least three hundred (300) pounds.
   RUNNING AT LARGE: A dog that is off the premises of its owner and not under
the control of the owner (or a person acting for the owner) by means of a
leash, cord, chain or like device, not more than eight feet (8') in length,
capable of physically restraining the movement of such dog.
   VICIOUS DOG: Except that no dog shall be deemed to be a vicious dog
hereunder if it bites, attacks or menaces a trespasser on the property of its
owner, or harms or menaces anyone who has tormented or abused it or is a
professionally trained dog for law enforcement or guard duties, "vicious dog"
means:
      1.   Any dog that when unprovoked inflicts bites or attacks or has
attacked or bitten a person or animal either on public or private property; or
      2.   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
without provocation, to cause injury to, or to otherwise endanger the safety of
persons or animals; or
      3.   Any dog which, because of its physical nature or vicious propensity,
is capable of inflicting serious physical harm or death to persons or animals
and which would constitute a danger to life or property if it were not kept in
the manner required by this article; or
      4.   Any dog owned or kept primarily or in part for the purpose of
dogfighting, or any dog trained for dogfighting; or
      5.   Any dog that has been found to be a dangerous dog upon any other
occasion; or
      6.   Any dog which attacks a person or domestic animal without
provocation. (1993 Code; amd. Ord. O-07-028, 9-6-2007)
Sec. 14.402. Certain Animals Restricted.
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance to keep, maintain or have
any bats, pigeons, wild birds, roosters, chickens, rodents, skunks, raccoons,
rabbits, goats, cattle, horses, swine, pigs or any such other animals not
otherwise considered to be a pet, except as otherwise permitted in the Code,
within the city limits. This shall not apply to a reasonable number of house
pets.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance to keep any live swine or pigs.
(1976 Code §§ 5-9, 5-10; amd. Ord. O-20-014, 6-18-2020)
Sec. 14.403. Animal Care.
Every person owning, harboring, keeping or caring for an animal, fowl or
reptile shall provide for it:
   A.   A sufficient quantity of good quality, wholesome food and water.
   B.   Adequate shelter and protection from the weather.
   C.   Veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering.
   D.   Humane care and treatment. (1976 Code §5-1)
Sec. 14.404. Prohibited Acts And Conditions.
It shall be unlawful:
   A.   Cruelty To Animals:
      1.   To beat, cruelly treat, torment, overload, overwork or otherwise
abuse any animal, fowl or reptile; or
      2.   To abandon any animal, fowl or reptile where it may become a public
charge or may suffer injury, hunger or exposure. (1976 Code §5-2)
   B.   Running At Large: For any animal, fowl or reptile to run at large.
(1976 Code §5-3)
   C.   Grazing Or Feeding In Streets: To picket or tie any animal in the
street for the purpose of grazing or feeding. (1976 Code §5-4)
   D.   Noisy Animals: To harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace
with loud noises. (1976 Code §5-6)
   E.   Killing Animals: For any person to engage in killing any animal other
than as prescribed by law 1 . (1976 Code §5-5)
   F.   Dogs At Public Events: No person shall bring to, or keep or maintain,
any dog at any public event being held in the City including, but not limited
to, the Wood Dale Summerfest. This provision shall not prohibit the presence of
dogs assisting the handicapped or any dog being used by law enforcement or
public safety officials within the course of their official duties. Any person
violating the provision of this subsection shall be deemed to be guilty of an
offense and shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00). (Ord. 1673, 9-17-1992)
   G.   Feeding, Harboring, And Maintenance Of Feral Cats: If any person within
the City of Wood Dale undertakes to feed, harbor or maintain a feral cat within
the City limits of Wood Dale, that person shall be deemed responsible for the
feral cat and shall be required to comply with all applicable portions of this
Code, the DuPage County Code and State law concerning the care of cats.
Further, such person shall be required to provide any veterinary care necessary
to treat or prevent any injury to the feral cat, and shall spay or neuter the
feral cat within seven (7) days from the date the person is deemed responsible
for the feral cat. (Ord. O-07-028, 9-6-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 50/5, 75/3; ch. 520.
Sec. 14.405. Diseased Animals.
   A.   Running At Large Prohibited: No animal afflicted with a contagious
disease or an infectious disease shall be allowed to run at large or to be
exposed in any public place whereby the health of man or beast may be affected.
   B.   Quarantine: No diseased animal shall be shipped or removed from the
premises of its owner except under the supervision of the Chief of Police.
   C.   Disposal Of Diseased Animals; Premises: It is hereby made the duty of
the Chief of Police to dispose of any diseased animal and treat the affected
premises so as to prevent the communication or spread of contagion or infection
except in cases where the State Department of Agriculture is empowered to act.
(1976 Code §5-8)
Sec. 14.406. Killing Dangerous Animals.
The members of the Police Department or any other person is authorized to kill
any dangerous animal when necessary for the protection of any person or
property. (1976 Code §5-6)
Sec. 14.407. Impoundment And Redemption Procedures.
   A.   Animal Impoundment: Any dog or other animal found in the City in
violation of any of the other provisions of this article shall be kept in the
enclosure established as the City pound until redeemed or otherwise disposed of
as directed from time to time by the City Council. Animals held in the pound
shall be held at least ten (10) days for redemption.
   B.   Care And Treatment Of Animals: Impounded animals shall be humanely
treated and fed; the pound shall be under the charge of the Chief of Police,
who shall be responsible for the care and custody of the same.
   C.   Redemption Of Impounded Animals: Any person seeking to redeem an
impounded animal shall pay a recording fee as specified in the master fee
schedule per day that the animal is impounded. This shall be in addition to any
fees that are due to the facility where the animal is impounded, which shall be
paid to the City prior to release of the animal. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   D.   Unredeemed Animals: Unredeemed animals shall be disposed of as provided
by the Mayor and Council. (Ord. O-14-036, 11-20-2014)
Sec. 14.408. Registration Required.
Whenever a resolution called for in section
14.412 of this article has been adopted by the City Council, it shall be the
duty of every person owning, keeping or harboring any dog to register the same
with the City Clerk within thirty (30) days after acquiring same. (Ord. 1167,
8-20-1981)
Sec. 14.409. Running At Large.
   A.   Dogs At Large Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person owning or
having in charge, care, control or custody any dog, except a seeing eye dog
actually being used by a blind person, to cause, allow or permit such dog,
whether licensed or unlicensed, on or upon any public street, alley or other
public place or in or upon any unenclosed lot or premises within the City
unless such dog be kept securely confined by a rope, chain or other leash not
over eight feet (8') in length, securely and continuously held by a competent
person, or to neglect by wilful act or omission to exercise due care or control
any such dog so as to commit any nuisance on any property other than any
improved private property belonging to the owner or person having charge, care,
control or custody of such dog. (1976 Code §5-27)
   B.   Interpretation:
      1.   For the purpose of this article, a dog shall be considered not to be
at large when it is muzzled or under the control of a person by means of a
leash, cord or rope of not more than eight feet (8') in length which is of
sufficient strength to control said dog. (1976 Code §5-11)
      2.   Any dog confined within any vehicle shall be deemed to be on the
enclosed premises of the operator thereof, and any dog securely tied or chained
so as to be confined within any unenclosed lot or premises shall be deemed to
be on an enclosed lot or premises.
   C.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, "nuisance" shall be
deemed to mean any trespass by such dog, or any act by such dog threatening or
actually bringing harm or damage to any person upon public or private property,
or any act by such dog endangering the repose or health of persons by biting or
by frequent barking, howling or yelping. (1976 Code §5-27)
Sec. 14.410. Rabies Control.
   A.   Rabies Inoculation Required: It shall be the duty of the owner or
person in custody of any dog four (4) months or more of age to have it
inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian at least once each year.
No registration for a dog shall be issued unless the applicant exhibits a
certificate by a veterinarian showing compliance with this subsection within
one year prior to its issuance. (1976 Code §5-25; amd. 1993 Code)
   B.   Dog Bites; Procedures:
      1.   Whenever any dog bites a person, the owner of said dog shall
immediately notify the Chief of Police who shall order the dog to be held on
the owner's premises or shall have it impounded for a period of ten (10) days.
      2.   The dog shall be examined immediately after it has bitten anyone and
again at the end of the ten (10) day period. If, at the end of this ten (10)
day period, a veterinarian is convinced that the dog is free from rabies, he
shall order the dog released from quarantine or the pound. (1976 Code §5-26)
Sec. 14.411. Removal Of Excrement.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit a dog to be on any
property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such person unless such
person has in his immediate possession a device for the removal of excrement
and a depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon
property owned or possessed by such person. It shall be unlawful for any person
in control of, causing or permitting any dog to be on any property, public or
private, not owned or possessed by such person to fail to remove excrement left
by such dog to a proper receptacle located on property owned or possessed by
such person. (1976 Code §5-28)
Sec. 14.412. Intergovernmental Cooperation.
Pursuant to the authority vested in units of local government by section 10 of
article VII of the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970, the City
shall undertake to collect the registration fees and other proper charges
agreed by and between it and the County under the terms of any
intergovernmental cooperation agreement to administer and enforce the Animal
Control Act of the State of Illinois 1 , which contract shall be authorized
upon passage of a suitable resolution by the City and execution by the
authorized officials of the County. (Ord. 1167, 8-20-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
Sec. 14.413. Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be deemed to be guilty
of an offense and shall be punished by a fine as specified in the master fee
schedule. If any violation shall be of a continuing nature, each day of
violation shall be deemed a separate offense and subject to the progressive
penalties contained therein. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE V
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
14.501. Injuring Public Property
14.502. Advertisements On Public Property
14.503. Trespasses
14.504. Retail Theft
14.505. Advertising Unlawful Items
14.506. Unlawful Structures For Residential Or Business Quarters
14.507. Fraud
14.508. Disorderly Conduct
14.509. Public Intoxication And Possession Of Open Containers Of Alcohol
14.510. Assemblages
14.511. Vagrancy
14.512. Throwing Objects
14.513. Obstructing Exits Or Stairways
14.514. Unused Or Abandoned Refrigerators
14.515. Discharging Firearms
14.516. False Fire Alarms
14.517. Drugs And Drug Paraphernalia
14.517.1. Synthetic Alternative Drugs
14.518. Public Indecency
14.519. [Reserved]
14.520. Gambling
14.521. Spray Paint And Wide Tipped Markers
14.522. Roller Skates And Toy Vehicles Prohibited On Certain City Property
14.523. Alcoholic Beverages At Train Station
14.524. Theft
14.525. Criminal Damage To Property
14.526. Penalty
Sec. 14.501. Injuring Public Property.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to injure, deface or interfere with any
property belonging to the city without proper authority from the council. (1976
Code §17-3)
Sec. 14.502. Advertisements On Public Property.
No person shall post, stick, stamp, tack, paint or otherwise fix, or cause the
same to be done by any person, any notice, placard, bill, card, poster,
advertisement or other device calculated to attract the attention of the public
to or upon any sidewalk, crosswalk, curb or curbstone, flagstone or any other
portion or part of any public way, lamppost, electric light, telegraph,
telephone, hydrant, shade tree 1  or upon the piers, columns, trusses, girders,
railings, gates or other parts of any public bridge or viaduct, or upon any
pole box or fixture of the fire alarm or police telegraph system, except such
as may be required by law. (1976 Code §25-16)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 6.501 of this code.
Sec. 14.503. Trespasses.
   A.   Rules And Definitions:
      1.   Rules Of Word Construction: The language set forth in the text of
this section shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of
construction:
         a.   The singular number includes the plural number and the plural the
singular.
         b.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
         c.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
      2.   Definitions: Whenever in this section the following words and
phrases are used, they shall, for the purpose of this section, have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection, except when the
context otherwise indicates:
    CANVASSER: A person, whether resident of the city or not, traveling either
by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from
place to place, from house to house or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal
property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery or for services to be
furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has,
carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he
is collecting advance payments on such sales or not; provided, that such
definition shall include any person who, for himself or for another person,
hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar,
boat, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the
city for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future
delivery.
   CHIEF OF POLICE: The chief of the Wood Dale police department.
   CITY: The city of Wood Dale, DuPage County, Illinois.
   ENTRY: The making of one's way with the whole or any part of one's body,
hand, foot, or any rock, projectile or other instrument or weapon into or onto
the property of another.
   GO-CART: Any self-propelled, four (4) wheeled vehicle, the use of which is
prohibited upon public streets and highways by laws of the state of Illinois.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
circuit court of this state, but does not include a person appointed guardian
or given custody of a minor under the Illinois juvenile court act 1 .
   MINIBIKE: Any self-propelled, two (2) wheeled vehicle, the use of which is
prohibited upon public streets and highways by laws of the state of Illinois.
   MINOR: Any person who has attained eleven (11) years of age but who has not
yet reached eighteen (18) years of age.
   MUFFLER: A device consisting of a series of chambers or baffle plates or
other mechanical design for the purpose of receiving exhaust gas from an
internal combustion engine and effective in reducing noise.
   NUISANCE: That class of wrongs which arise from the unreasonable,
unwarrantable or unlawful use by a person of his own property, either real or
personal, or from his own improper, indecent or unlawful personal conduct,
working an obstruction of or injury to the right of another or of the public,
and producing such material annoyance, inconvenience, discomfort or hurt that
the law will presume resulting damages.
   OPERATE: To ride in or on and control the speed and direction of a minibike,
go-cart or snowmobile.
   OPERATOR: Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
minibike, go-cart or snowmobile.
   PARENT: The lawful father or the mother of a person.
   PERSON, FIRM OR CORPORATION: A natural person, partnership, firm,
corporation or organization of any kind.
   PREMISES: Any dwelling, house, building or other structure designed or used
wholly or in part for private purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or
continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall include any yard, grounds, walk,
driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such
dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PROPERTY: Any realty, including improvements thereon, and tangible
personalty.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as herein provided and which certificate is in the possession of
the solicitor on his or her person while engaging in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE OR DWELLING UNIT: Every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons contained within any type of
building or structure.
   SNOWMOBILE: Any self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on ice or snow
steered by skis or rudders, the use of which is prohibited upon public streets
and highways by laws of the state of Illinois.
   SOLICITING: a.   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs and/or services of any kind, character or description
whatsoever, for any kind of consideration whatever; or
      b.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character; or
      c.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
      d.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project.
   SOLICITOR: Any individual, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling
either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance,
from place to place, from house to house or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal
property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery or for services to be
furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has,
carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he
is collecting advance payment on such sales or not; provided, that such
definition shall include any person who, for himself or for another person,
hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar,
boat, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the
city for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future
delivery.
   TRAIN STATION PROPERTY: The station house and the platforms, tracks and
roadbed, walks and paths, outbuildings, benches, fences, walls, driveways,
vehicle parking facilities, and other structures appurtenant thereto. For
purposes of this section, train station property shall be deemed public
property.
   TRESPASS: Any of the following acts by any person shall be deemed included
among those that constitute trespass in violation of the provisions of
subsection B of this section, and appropriate action may be taken thereunder at
any time, or from time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or
violations of this section, the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as
follows:
      a.   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or occupant thereof; or
      b.   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof; or
      c.   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      d.   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
   TRICK-OR-TREATING: The permitted act of solicitation for the purpose of
obtaining gifts, food, candy or contributions of money, as is customary in the
celebration of Halloween Day (October 31).
   UNEMANCIPATED MINOR: A minor who is dependent upon his parent or parents or
legal guardian, and who is subject to parental power.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (1976 Code §17-28; amd. Ord.
O-04-010, 4-15-2004; Ord. O-04-034, 9-2-2004)
   B.   Trespasses Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a
trespass within this municipality upon either public or private property.
   C.   Specifically Enumerated Trespasses: Without constituting any limitation
upon the provisions of subsection B of this section, any of the following acts
by any person shall be deemed included among those that constitute trespasses
in violation of the provisions of subsection B of this section; any appropriate
action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from time to time, to prevent or
suppress any violation or violations of this section, the aforesaid enumerated
acts so included, being as follows:
      1.   Any entry upon the premises, or any part thereof of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance of said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or occupant thereof.
      2.   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof.
      3.   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof.
      4.   The operation of a minibike, go-cart or snowmobile 2  in the
following places:
         a.   On private property of another, whether or not open to the
public, without the express consent of the owner or lessee or other person in
control.
         b.   On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, sidewalks,
recreational areas, streets, public rights of way and/or other public property
without the express provision or consent by the proper public authority; and
         c.   On or across railroad rights of way.
      5.   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
      6.   Any entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property, during which entry any such property is defaced,
broken, injured or destroyed without the consent of the owner hereof. (1976
Code §17-28)
      7.   Entry upon train station property, unless such entry is for the
purpose of waiting to board trains, alighting from trains, depositing persons
to wait to board trains, collecting persons alighting from trains, or renting,
or intending to rent, a space in the train station property parking facility to
park a vehicle. This restriction shall not apply to the employees, agents, and
contractors of the city of Wood Dale or Metra or to persons engaged in
political or other first amendment protected activities or activities on behalf
of any recognized organized religion or organization having tax exempt status
under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code. (Ord. O-04-010, 4-15-
2004)
   D.   Soliciting 3 :
      1.   City Policy On Soliciting: It is hereby declared to be the policy of
the governing body of the city that the occupant or occupants of the buildings
in this city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall be or
shall not be invited to their respective buildings. If no determination is made
as is provided in subsection D3 of this section, registration is not required.
      2.   Registration Of Solicitors:
         a.   Registration Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in the business of soliciting or canvassing upon premises within the
corporate limits of the city wherein an owner or occupant has posted a small
sign at the principal entrance inviting therein only solicitors who have
registered with the police department without such solicitor first registering
with the police department in the manner provided in this subsection.
         b.   Registration Procedure:
            (1)   All applicants for registration to solicit or canvass upon
premises within the city wherein an owner or occupant has posted a small sign
at the principal entrance inviting therein only those solicitors who have
registered with the police department, shall at any time between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M., Monday through Friday,
execute an application blank at the office of the chief of police, which
applicant shall truthfully state the information requested on the application,
as follows:
               (A)   Name and address of present place of residence and length
of residence at such address; also, business address if other than residence
address; also, social security number.
               (B)   Address of place of residence during the past three (3)
years if other than the present address.
               (C)   Age of applicant and marital status, and if married, the
name of spouse.
               (D)   Physical description of the applicant.
               (E)   Name and address of the person by whom the applicant is
employed or represents, and the length of time of such employment or
representation.
               (F)   Name and address of employer during the past three (3)
years if other than the present employer.
               (G)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject
matter of the soliciting which the applicant will engage in.
               (H)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied for.
               (J)   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous
application for certificate under this subsection, if any.
               (K)   If a certificate of registration issued to the applicant
under this subsection has ever been revoked.
               (L)   If the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this subsection or the ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting.
               (M)   If the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission
of a felony under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state or
federal law of the United States.
               (N)   Such additional information as the chief of police may
deem necessary to process the application.
            (2)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or
in connection therewith shall be under oath.
            (3)   The chief of police shall require every applicant to submit
to fingerprinting and the photographing of his person by the police department
of this city in connection with the application for certificate of
registration.
         c.   Restrictions On Issuance Of Certificate: No certificate of
registration shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of the
commission of a felony under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other
state or federal law of the United States within five (5) years of the date of
the application, nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this subsection, nor to any person whose certificate of
registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked as herein provided.
         d.   Approval Or Denial Of Certificate Of Registration:
            (1)   Approval; Deposit: When the applicant is found to be fully
qualified, the certificate of registration shall be issued forthwith. The
certificate of registration shall state the expiration date thereof, which
shall not exceed thirty (30) days from the date of issuance. Upon receipt of
the certificate of registration, the applicant shall deposit ten dollars
($10.00) with the city, which amount shall be refunded at the time the
certificate of registration is returned, provided return of same is made not
later than five (5) days after the date of expiration of said certificate.
            (2)   Denial: The chief of police shall deny the issuance of a
certificate of registration if, after consideration of the application for
registered solicitor and all information obtained relative thereto, the chief
finds that the applicant does not possess the qualifications for such
certificate of registration as herein required and that the issuance of a
certificate of registration to the applicant would not be in accord with the
intent and purpose of this subsection. Endorsement shall be made by the chief
of police upon the application of the denial of the application.
         e.   Revocation Of Certificate: Any certificate of registration issued
hereunder shall be revoked by the chief of police if the holder of the
certificate of registration is convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this subsection or has made a false material statement in the
application or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a certificate
of registration under the terms of this subsection. Immediately upon such
revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the chief of police to the
holder of the certificate of registration in person or by certified U.S. mail,
addressed to his or her residence address set forth in the application.
Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of registration
shall become null and void and shall be surrendered to the chief of police.
         f.   Records Kept: The chief of police shall cause to be kept in his
office an accurate record of every application received and acted upon together
with all other information and data pertaining thereto on all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this subsection and of the denial
of applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued and any renewal thereof shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued.
      3.   Notice Regulating Soliciting: Every owner or occupant desiring to
secure the protection intended to be provided by the regulations pertaining to
soliciting contained in this subsection shall give notice of the determination
by the owner or an occupant of giving invitation to solicitors, or the refusal
of invitation to solicitors, to any building, in the following means: a
weatherproof card, no larger than three inches by four inches (3" x 4") in
size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the building,
indicating the determination by the owner or an occupant containing the
applicable words, as follows:
   ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED WITH THE WOOD DALE POLICE DEPARTMENT INVITED
   or
   NO SOLICITORS INVITED
The letters shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") in height. For the purpose
of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the city clerk to persons
requesting, at the cost thereof. Such card so exhibited shall constitute
sufficient notice to any solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the
building of the information contained thereon.
      4.   Duty Of Solicitors:
         a.   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto any
premises in the city upon which a building as herein defined is located, to
first examine the notice provided for in subsection D3 of this section if any
is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the notice.
            (1)   If the notice states "ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED WITH THE
WOOD DALE POLICE DEPARTMENT INVITED", then the solicitor not possessing a valid
certificate of registration as herein provided shall immediately and peacefully
depart from the premises.
            (2)   If the notice states "NO SOLICITORS INVITED", then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully leave
the premises.
         b.   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any building, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
      5.   Uninvited Soliciting Prohibited: It is hereby declared to be
unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door or create any sound in any manner
calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such building for the
purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in
"soliciting" as herein defined in defiance of the notice exhibited at the
building or oral notice given in accordance with the provisions of subsection
D4 of this section. (1976 Code §17-28)
      6.   Limitations On Soliciting: It is hereby declared to be unlawful and
shall constitute a nuisance for any person, whether registered under this
subsection or not, to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near
any door of a building located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door, or
create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such building, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting" as herein defined, prior to nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. of any weekday or at any
time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday. (Ord. 1423, 9-17-1987)
      7.   Unlawful Trick-Or-Treating: It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in the act of solicitation commonly known or referred to as "trick-or-
treating" at any time other than Halloween day (October 31) between the hours
of three o'clock (3:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., provided, however,
that should Halloween day fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, it
shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the act of "trick-or-treating" at
any time other than between two o'clock (2:00) P.M. to seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M.
It shall be the duty and responsibility of the parents of such persons to see
that their children engage in no soliciting other than in compliance with this
subsection D7. (Ord. O-04-034, 9-2-2004)
   E.   Limitations On Operation Of Minibikes, Go-Carts And Snowmobiles 4 : It
is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether operating any minibike, go-cart or snowmobile upon properties
and places allowed under the terms of this subsection or not, to operate such
minibike, go-cart or snowmobile:
      1.   Without proper mechanical equipment, including, but not limited to:
         a.   Adequate brakes.
         b.   A muffler in good working order which prevents excessive or
unusual noises.
      2.   At a speed greater than reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing and in no case at a speed greater than thirty (30) miles per
hour.
      3.   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another or to cause injury or damage thereto.
      4.   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics.
      5.   To hunt, pursue or kill any wild bird or animal.
      6.   To commit any crime.
      7.   While in possession of any firearms unless authorized by law.
      8.   Between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of any given day and
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of the following day.
   F.   Loud Noises And Speaking Devices: No person shall shout, make any
outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell or use any other sound device including any
loud speaking radio or amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys, parks
or other public places of this City, or upon any private premises in the City
where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom capable of
being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys or parks or other public
places.
   G.   Posting Notices, Bills, Advertisements, Etc.: No person shall post,
stick, stamp, paint or otherwise fix, or cause the same to be done by any
person, any notice, placard, bill, card, poster, advertisement or other paper
or device calculated to attract the attention of the public to or upon any
sidewalk, crosswalk, curb or curbstone, flagstone or any other portion or part
of any public way or public place, or any lamppost, electric light, telegraph,
telephone or trolley line pole, or railway structure, hydrant, shade tree or
treebox, or upon the piers, columns, trusses, girders, railings, gates or other
parts of any public bridge or viaduct, or other public structures or building,
or upon any pole, box or fixture of the fire alarm or police telegraph system
except such as may be authorized or required by the laws of the United States,
or State of Illinois, or ordinances in the City.
   H.   Littering; Distributing Handbills:
      1.   No person shall throw, cast, deposit, damage, lay, place or scatter
in or upon any public place or public property or appurtenance any placard,
handbill, pamphlet, circular, book, notice, paper of any kind, coal, ashes,
dust, manure, rubbish, garbage, refuse matter or article or thing of any kind.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute, deposit, place,
throw, scatter or cast any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any
private premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute, deposit, hand out
or circulate any commercial or noncommercial handbill in any place, under any
circumstances, which does not have printed on the cover, front or back thereof,
the name and address of the following:
         a.   The person who printed, wrote, compiled or manufactured the same.
         b.   The person who caused the same to be distributed.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, occupant or agent of
premises to permit any person, whether licensed or acting under the terms of
this section or otherwise, to post, affix or otherwise attach to any building,
structure or fixture located upon such premises, whether such fixture be
natural or artificial, any poster or handbill containing any matter prohibited
by the terms of this section.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, hand out, distribute or
transmit any sign or any commercial or noncommercial handbill:
         a.   Which may reasonably tend to incite riot or other public
disorder, or which advocates disloyalty to or the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of the State of Illinois by means of any artifice,
scheme or violence, or which urges any unlawful conduct or encourages or tends
to encourage a breach of the public peace or good order of the community.
         b.   Which is offensive to public morals or decency, or which contains
blasphemous, obscene, libelous or scurrilous language. (1976 Code §17-28)
   J.   Financial Responsibility Of Parent Or Legal Guardian: Should any
aggrieved party desire a hearing relative to any actual damages sustained by
reason of any act of trespass by any unemancipated minor, such person shall
petition the Circuit Court of DuPage County in the name of the City for such
hearing. The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor who resides
with such parent or legal guardian is financially responsible for actual
damages for any trespass of such minor child as defined in this section,
provided such parent or legal guardian has been served with summons and a copy
of petition for hearing.
      1.   Hearing on such petition shall proceed in the Circuit Court of
DuPage County in the same manner as other civil proceedings concerned with
ordinance violations; except, that the scope of such proceedings shall cover
only the issues of:
         a.   Whether such unemancipated minor was placed under arrest for a
violation of this section; and
         b.   Whether such unemancipated minor was found by a court to have
committed such trespass, notwithstanding the fact that said court may not have
entered a finding of "guilty" against said unemancipated minor.
      2.   In the event the court shall find that:
         a.   An unemancipated minor was placed under arrest for a violation of
this section, and shall find that
         b.   Such unemancipated minor was found by a court to have committed
such trespass, then the court shall find such parent or legal guardian
responsible on such petition and shall order the parent or legal guardian to
make restitution or reparation in an amount as specified in the master fee
schedule.
      3.   When the court orders restitution or reparation, the court shall
determine the amount and conditions of payment. If, thereafter, the conditions
of payment have not ben satisfied, the court may, upon the motion of the City
and within the limits hereinabove set forth, impose such additional penalties
as it deems appropriate.
   K.   Penalty: Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
section, other than subsection J of this section, shall be punished by a fine
as specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
2 1. See also section 15.1424 of this code.
3 1. See also section 4.504 of this code; see subsection 15.1006C of this code
  for charitable solicitations.
4 1. See also section 15.1424 of this code.
Sec. 14.504. Retail Theft.
   A.   Definitions: Whenever, in this section, the following words and phrases
are used, they shall, for the purpose of this section, have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this subsection except when the context
otherwise indicates:
   CONCEALS: Hides or withholds from observation of others merchandise so that
said merchandise is not visible through ordinary observation.
   FULL RETAIL VALUE: The merchant's stated or advertised price of merchandise.
   MERCHANDISE: Any commodity which merchants usually sell, always an item of
tangible personal property.
   MERCHANT: An owner or operator of any retail mercantile establishment or any
agent, employee, lessee, consignee, officer, director, franchisee or
independent contractor of such owner or operator.
   PEACE OFFICER: Any person who, by virtue of his office or public employment,
is vested by law with a duty to maintain, enforce and preserve public order
and/or to make arrests for offenses, whether than duty extends to all offenses
or is limited to specific offenses.
   PREMISES OF A RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Any premises including, but
not limited to, any retail mercantile establishment and any common use areas in
shopping centers and all parking areas set aside by a merchant or on behalf of
a merchant for the parking of vehicle for the convenience of the patrons of
such retail mercantile establishment.
   RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Any place where merchandise is displayed,
held, stored or offered for sale to the public.
   SHOPPING CART: Those pushcarts of the type or types which are commonly
provided by grocery store, drugstores or other retail mercantile establishments
for the use of the public in transporting merchandise on the premises of a
retail mercantile establishment.
   UNDERRING: To cause the cash register or other sales recording devices to
reflect less than the full retail value of merchandise.
   B.   Retail Theft Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit
retail theft. The offense of retail theft is committed whenever such person:
      1.   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transferred any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale
in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise; or
      2.   Alters, transfers or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia
of value or any other markings which determines the full retail value of any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase or purchases such merchandise personally
or in consort with another at less than the full retail value of such
merchandise; or
      3.   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail merchandise establishment from the container in or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      4.   Causes an underring of any merchandise with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      5.   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal.
   C.   Presumptions: For the purposes of subsection B of this section,
whenever any person, alone or in conjunction with another, 1) conceals upon his
person or among his belongings or in a container, unpurchased merchandise
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment; and 2) removes that merchandise beyond the last known station
for receiving payments for that merchandise in that retail mercantile
establishment, such person or persons (as the case may be) shall be presumed to
have possessed, carried away or transferred such merchandise with the intention
of retaining such merchandise and with the intention of depriving the merchant
permanently of the possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without
paying the full retail value of such merchandise. (Ord. 1244, 3-15-1984)
Sec. 14.505. Advertising Unlawful Items.
It shall be unlawful to advertise any unlawful business or article. (1976 Code
§17-20)
Sec. 14.506. Unlawful Structures For Residential Or Business Quarters.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to use for residential or business purposes any
structure erected, moved or maintained in violation of law.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to use for residential purposes any trailer,
stationary railroad car, recreational vehicle or truck. (1976 Code §17-27)
Sec. 14.507. Fraud.
It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain possession of any goods, property
or thing of value by any false proceedings or by cheating or by fraud of any
kind. (1976 Code §17-30)
Sec. 14.508. Disorderly Conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quiet of the city
or any portion thereof by disorderly conduct. Disorderly conduct shall be
committed by any person when he either:
   A.   Breach Of The Peace: Knowingly does any act in such unreasonable matter
as to provoke, make or aid in the making of a breach of the peace; or
   B.   Resisting, Obstructing Officials 1 :
      1.   Resists or obstructs the performance by one who may reasonably be
believed to be a police officer or any one authorized act within such officer's
official capacity; or
      2.   Resists any officer of the police department of the city in the
discharge of his duties, or in any way interferes with or hinders or prevents
him from discharging his duty as such officer, or offers or endeavors to do so
or assists any person in the custody of any member of the police force to
escape or attempt to escape from such custody, or attempts to rescue any person
in such custody; or
   C.   Dangerous Assemblages: Assembles with three (3) or more persons for the
purpose of using force or firearms to disturb the public peace; or
   D.   Failure To Disperse: Fails to observe lawful order of dispersal by any
person who may reasonably be believed to be a police officer where three (3) or
more persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate
vicinity, which acts are likely to cause substantial harm or serious
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm; or
   E.   Presence On School Property:
      1.   Knowingly enters upon any school property, public or private, within
the City at any time when other persons are present on such school property for
the purpose or with the intention of making or doing any unreasonable or
offensive act, utterance, gesture or display; or
      2.   Knowingly enters upon any school property, public or private, within
the city at any time when other persons are present on such school property and
while thereon, makes or does any unreasonable or offensive act, utterance,
gesture or display which disrupts or interferes with or tends to disrupt or
interfere with administrative functions, educational classes or social and
athletic activities then and there in progress; or
   F.   Violent Acts: Creates disturbance of public order by any act of
violence or by an act likely to produce violence; or
   G.   Fighting: Engages in fighting, threatening or tumultuous behavior; or
   H.   Disturbing Council Meetings:
      1.   Engages in fighting, loud shouting or other tumultuous behavior
within the chambers of the city council during any regularly or specially
convened meeting of the city council or any subcommittee thereof; or
      2.   During any regular or specially convened meeting of the city council
or any committee, commission or board of the city, or during any regular or
specially convened meeting of any other organization, engages in the smoking of
any cigarette, pipe and/or cigar within the chambers of the city council
located in the city hall 2 ; or
   J.   Annoying, Molesting Persons: Hinders, annoys or molests persons passing
along any street, sidewalk, crosswalk or other public way; or
   K.   Obstructing Entrances: Loiters, sits or stands around the entrance of
any church, theater, public building or other place of public assemblage in any
manner so as to unreasonably obstruct such entrance; or
   L.   Obstructing Public Ways: Places or erects upon any public way an
obstruction of any type except temporary barriers or warning signs placed
thereon for the purpose of safeguarding the public against any hazard; or
   M.   Disturbing, Damaging Domains: Disturbs, threatens or in any insolent
manner intentionally damages any occupied house or vehicle; or
   N.   Intoxicating Inhalants:
      1.   Intentionally inhales vapors or fumes or any substance which induce
euphoria, hallucinations or intoxication except as otherwise provided by law;
or
      2.   Visits or resorts to any place wherein the inhaling of vapors or
fumes or any substance which induces euphoria, hallucinations or intoxication
is being conducted, practiced or carried on illegally therein; or
   O.   Noise 3 : Makes continuous or causes to be made by the use of any horn,
bell, radio, loudspeaker or by operation of any other instrument or device any
noise or noises, which noise or noises are of such character, intensity and
duration as to disturb the peace and quiet of the city or any portion thereof
or to be detrimental to the life and health of any individual. (1976 Code §17-
29)
   P.   Threatening, Harassing Telephone Calls: Makes a telephone call, whether
or not conversation ensues, with intent to abuse, threaten or harass any person
at the location of the telephone dialed or called. (Ord. 1188, 5-6-1982)
   Q.   Graffiti: Places graffiti upon the surface of any structure or wall
that is publicly or privately owned and wherein the contents thereof are
visible to any member of the general public. (For purposes of this subsection,
the term "graffiti" shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following
illustrative items: any drawing, inscription, word, phrase, diagram, symbol,
sketch, or letters containing references to sexual activity, diagrams relating
to the sexual activity or sexual organs, references to criminal activities, or
groups which promote or are involved in criminal activity, swearing or fighting
words, defamatory materials about any person or references to relationships.)
(1976 Code §17-15)
   R.   Spray Paint: Sells, offers for sale, causes to be sold, gives or
otherwise provides any aerosol or pressurized container of paint, dye, ink or
similar substance to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   S.   Wide Tipped Marker: Sells, offers for sale, causes to be sold, gives or
otherwise provides to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years a marker
having a marking tip of one- quarter inch (1/4") or more in diameter.
   T.   Possession Of Graffiti Paraphernalia: While under the age of eighteen
(18) years, purchases any pressurized container which contains paint, dye, ink
or a similar substance or while upon private property, without the consent of
the owner, lessee or other person entitled to legal possession thereof, or in a
public place possesses an aerosol or pressurized container of paint, dye, ink
or similar substance; or a marker having a marking tip of one-quarter inch (1/
4") or more in diameter. (Ord. 1810, 8-17-1995)
   U.   Fireworks: Manufactures, stores, offers or exposes for sale, sells at
retail, possesses, uses or explodes any fireworks within the city of Wood Dale.
As used in this subsection, the term "fireworks" shall mean and include the
following: any explosive composition, or any substance or combination of
substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect of a temporary exhibition by explosion, combustion, deflagration
or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy cannons in which
explosives are used, the type of balloons which require fire underneath to
propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, bottle rockets, Roman candles, bombs,
M-80s, or other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks containing any
explosive compound, or any tablets or other device containing any explosive
substance, or containing combustible substances producing visual effects;
provided, however, that the term "fireworks" shall not include automobile
flares, sparklers, snake or glowworm pellets, smoke devices, trick noisemakers,
toy pistols, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic caps
containing twenty five-hundredths (0.25) grains or less of explosive compound
are used; providing they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in
contact with the cap when in place for the explosion, and toy pistol paper or
plastic caps which contain less than twenty-hundredths (0.20) grains of
explosive mixture, the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all times.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the use and explosion of fireworks shall be
permitted when specifically authorized by the city council in connection with a
holiday event sponsored by the city. (Ord. O-02-019, 6-20-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 2.101 of this code.
2 1. See also section 6.105 of this code.
3 1. See chapter 6, article IV of this code.
Sec. 14.509. Public Intoxication And Possession Of Open Containers Of Alcohol.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be in an intoxicated condition on or in
any street, alley or other public property or on or in any private property
that is accessible to the general public and to which the general public is
invited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry, possess or consume any
alcoholic liquor other than in the original container and with the seal
unbroken on any public property or private property that is accessible to the
general public and to which the general public is invited, unless such public
area is a permitted area under the terms of a city issued liquor license or
city sanctioned event where the possession of such alcoholic liquor is allowed.
(Ord. O-14-005, 3-6-2014)
Sec. 14.510. Assemblages.
   A.   Disturbing Assemblages: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb
any lawful assemblage or gathering. (1976 Code §17-31)
   B.   Unlawful Assemblages: It shall be unlawful to collect, gather or be a
member of any disorderly crowd or any crowd gathered together for any unlawful
purpose. (1976 Code §17-33)
Sec. 14.511. Vagrancy.
It shall be unlawful for mendicants or vagrants to frequent any depot, store,
theater, street, alley, sidewalk, park or other public place or any other place
frequented by the public. Any person found sleeping in any such place and who
has no established domicile or residence shall be considered to be a vagrant.
(1976 Code §17-25)
Sec. 14.512. Throwing Objects.
It shall be unlawful to cast, throw or propel any missile on any street, alley
or other public place, or to throw or deposit any glass, nails, tacks or other
similar articles on any street, sidewalk or alley. (1976 Code §17-18)
Sec. 14.513. Obstructing Exits Or Stairways.
It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisle, corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school, church,
theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall or any building used by two
(2) or more tenants or families in such a manner that it interferes with the
free use of such stairway, aisle, corridor or exit. (1976 Code §17-24)
Sec. 14.514. Unused Or Abandoned Refrigerators.
It shall be unlawful to permit any unused or abandoned refrigerator, icebox or
deepfreeze or other freezer to remain in any place accessible to any child
without first removing the doors or breaking the hinges of the door or doors of
any such icebox, refrigerator or deepfreeze. (1976 Code §17-26)
Sec. 14.515. Discharging Firearms.
It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm or air gun in any location or
facility unless said location or facility operates with a federal firearms
license (FFL) and only in connection with the FFL. This shall not prohibit any
officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty
nor any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending his person
or property in accordance with the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (Ord. O-16-008,
4-7-2016)
Sec. 14.516. False Fire Alarms.
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start or spread any false
alarms of fire 1 . (1976 Code §17-9)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 14.203 of this chapter.
Sec. 14.517. Drugs And Drug Paraphernalia.
   A.   Definitions: Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms
as used in this section shall be construed according to the definitions given
below:
      CANNABIS: Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are identified as
including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives or
subspecies, such as indicia, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction; however, "cannabis" does not include the mature
stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it),
fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination. "Cannabis" does not include industrial hemp as defined and
authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act. "Cannabis" also means concentrate and
cannabis-infused products.
      CANNABIS CONCENTRATE: A product derived from cannabis that is produced by
extracting cannabinoids from the plant through the use of propylene glycol,
glycerin, butter, olive oil or other typical cooking fats; water, ice, or dry
ice; or butane, propane, C02, ethanol, or isopropanol. The use of any other
solvent is expressly prohibited unless and until it is approved by the
Department of Agriculture.
      CANNABIS CONTAINER: A sealed, traceable, container, or package used for
the purpose of containment of cannabis or cannabis-infused product during
transportation.
      CANNABIS FLOWER: Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including
derivatives or subspecies, such as indicia, of all strains of cannabis;
including raw kief, leaves, and buds, but not resin that has been extracted
from any part of such plant; nor any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resin.
      CANNABIS INFUSED PRODUCT: A beverage, food, oil, ointment, tincture,
topical formulation, or another product containing cannabis that is not
intended to be smoked.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: A drug, substance, immediate precursor, or
synthetic drug in the Schedules of Article Il of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: A device used, designed for use or intended for use
in ingesting, smoking, administering or preparing any controlled substance
other than cannabis, and includes but is not limited to the following:
      1 .   Spoons used for preparing and ingesting controlled substances other
than cannabis.
      2.   Pipes used for preparing and ingesting controlled substances other
than cannabis.
      MINOR: Any person who has not attained twenty-one (21) years of age.
      ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW: Within the sight line with normal visual range of a
person, unassisted by visual aids, from a public street or sidewalk adjacent to
real property, or from within an adjacent property.
      PRIMARY RESIDENCE: A dwelling where a person usually stays or stays more
often than other locations. It may be determined by, without limitation,
presence, tax filings; address on an Illinois driver's license, an Illinois
Identification Card, or an Illinois Person with a Disability Identification
Card; or voter registration. No person may have more than one primary
residence.
      PUBLIC PLACE: Any place where a person could reasonably be expected to be
observed by others. "Public place" includes all parts of buildings owned in
whole or in part, or leased, by the State or a unit of local government.
"Public place" does not include a private residence unless the private
residence is used to provide licensed child care, foster care, or other similar
social service care on the premises.
      PREMISES OPEN TO MINORS: Any business establishment which sells its wares
or merchandise to minors or which permits minors to enter into its place of
business.
      SCHOOL: Any public or private elementary, junior high or high school.
   B.   Possession Limit:
      1.   Except if otherwise authorized by the Illinois Compiled Statutes,
for a person who is 21 years of age or older and a resident of this State, the
possession limit is as follows:
         a.   30 grams of cannabis flower;
         b.   No more than 500 milligrams of THC contained in cannabis-infused
product;
         c.   5 grams of cannabis concentrate; and
         d.   For registered qualifying compassionate use of marijuana
patients, any cannabis produced by cannabis plants grown under subsection (b)
of Section 10-5 of the Cannabis Control Act, provided any amount of cannabis
produced in excess of 30 grams of raw cannabis or its equivalent must remain
secured within the residence or residential property in which it was grown.
      2.   For a person who is 21 years of age or older and who is not a
resident of this State, the possession limit is:
         a.   15 grams of cannabis flower;
         b.   2.5 grams of cannabis concentrate; and
         c.   250 milligrams of THC contained in a cannabis-infused product.
         The possession limits found in section B of this code are to be
considered cumulative.
      3.   No person shall knowingly obtain, seek to obtain, or possess an
amount of cannabis from a dispensing organization or craft grower that would
cause him or her to exceed the possession limit under this Section, including
cannabis that is cultivated by a person under this Act or obtained under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
      4.   Persons under 21 years of age.
         a.   Nothing in this code is intended to permit the transfer of
cannabis, with or without remuneration, to a person under 21 years of age, or
to allow a person under 21 years of age to purchase, possess, use, process,
transport, grow, or consume cannabis except where authorized by the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act or by the Community College Cannabis
Vocational Pilot Program.
         b.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law authorizing the
possession of medical cannabis, nothing in this Act authorizes a person who is
under 21 years of age to possess cannabis.
         c.   It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to use or
possess any instrument of drug paraphernalia as identified above.
         d.   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit his
or her residence, any other private property under his or her control, or any
vehicle, conveyance, or watercraft under his or her control to be used by an
invitee of the parentl s child or the guardian l s ward, if the invitee is
under the age of 21, in a manner that constitutes a violation of this Section.
A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted his or her
residence, any other private property under his or her control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under his or her control to be used in violation of
this Section if he or she knowingly authorizes or permits consumption of
cannabis by underage invitees.
   C.   Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person over the age of 21
to:
      1.   Unlawfully possess cannabis in excess limits of what is described in
section B. of the municipal code.
      2.   To transport cannabis without a proper "Cannabis container" which is
a sealed, traceable, container, or package used for the purpose of containment
of cannabis or cannabis-infused product.
      3.   Using cannabis:
         a.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis act; or
         b.   In any public or private elementary, junior high or high school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act; or
         c.   In a vehicle not open to the public unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container, and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving; or
         d.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises; or
         e.   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under 21 years of
age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Act; or
         f.   In any public place; or
         g.   In any place where smoking is prohibited under the Smoke Free
Illinois Act.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for persons over the age of 21 to use or
possess an instrument of drug paraphernalia as described above that is used for
ingesting controlled substances other than cannabis and cannabis infused
products.
      5.   To sell or display any drug paraphernalia as defined in this code in
or upon any premises which: a) is a premises open to minors; or b) any premises
for which a liquor license has been issued. This does not apply to any
locations that are exempted by the Illinois Cannabis Control Act for sales of
drug paraphernalia.
   D.   Cultivation Of Cannabis: Cultivating cannabis for personal use is
subject to the following limitations:
      1.   An Illinois resident 21 years of age or older who is a registered
qualifying patient under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act may
cultivate cannabis plants, with a limit of 5 plants that are more than 5 inches
tall, per household without a cultivation center or craft grower license. In
this Section, "resident" means a person who has been domiciled in the State of
Illinois for a period of 30 days before cultivation.
      2.   Cannabis cultivation must take place in an enclosed, locked space.
      3.   Adult registered qualifying patients may purchase cannabis seeds
from a dispensary for the purpose of home cultivation. Seeds may not be given
or sold to any other person.
      4.   Cannabis plants shall not be stored or placed in a location where
they are subject to ordinary public view, as defined in this code. A registered
qualifying patient who cultivates cannabis under this Section shall take
reasonable precautions to ensure the plants are secure from unauthorized
access, including unauthorized access by a person under 21 years of age.
      5.   Cannabis cultivation may occur only on residential property lawfully
in possession of the cultivator or with the consent of the person in lawful
possession of the property. An owner or lessor of residential property may
prohibit the cultivation of cannabis by a lessee.
      6.   A dwelling, residence, apartment, condominium unit, enclosed, locked
space, or piece of property not divided into multiple dwelling units shall not
contain more than 5 plants at any one time.
      7.   Cannabis plants may only be tended by registered qualifying patients
who reside at the residence, or their authorized agent attending to the
residence for brief periods, such as when the qualifying patient is temporarily
away from the residence.
   E.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of a violation of any of the terms of
this code shall be guilty of a business offense and shall be fined an amount as
specified in the master fee schedule. Each day that a violation is found to
have existed shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. O-19-39, 12-5-2019)
Sec. 14.517.1. Synthetic Alternative Drugs.
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires different meaning:
    PRODUCT CONTAINING A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG: Any product containing a
synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen, as those terms
are defined herein such as, but not limited to, the following examples of brand
names or identifiers:
      8-Ball
      Aztec Gold
      Aztec Midnight Wind Tezcatlipoca
      Back Draft
      Bad 2 the Bone
      Banana Cream Nuke
      Bayou Blaster
      Black Diamond
      Black Magic Salvia
      Black Mamba
      Blueberry Haze
      Bombay Blue
      Buzz
      C3
      C4
      C4 Herbal Incense
      Caneff
      Cherry Bomb
      Chill Out
      Chill X
      Chronic Spice
      Citrus
      Colorado Chronic
      D-Rail
      Da Block
      Dark Night II
      Demon
      Diamond Spirit
      Dragon Spice
      Dream
      Earthquake
      Eruption Spice
      Euphoria
      Ex-SES
      Ex-SES Platinum
      EX-SES Platinum Blueberry
      EX-SES Platinum Strawberry
      EX-SES Platinum Vanilla
      Fire Bird Ultimate Strength Cinnamon
      Forest Humus
      Freedom
      Fully Loaded
      Funky Monkey
      Funky Monkey XXXX
      G Four
      G Greenies Caramel Crunch
      Genie
      Gold Spirit Spice
      Green Monkey Chronic Salvia
      Greenies Strawberry
      Heaven Improved
      Heavenscent Suave
      Humboldt Gold
      Jamaican Gold
      K Royal
      K1 Gravity
      K1 Orbit
      K2
      K2 (unknown variety)
      K2 Amazonian Shelter
      K2 Blonde
      K2 Blue
      K2 Blueberry
      K2 Citron
      K2 Cloud 9
      K2 Kryptonite
      K2 Latte
      K2 Mellon
      K2 Mint
      K2 Orisha Black Magic Max
      K2 Orisha Max
      K2 Orisha Regular
      K2 Orisha Super
      K2 Orisha White Magic Super
      K2 Peach
      K2 Pina Colada
      K2 Pineapple
      K2 Pineapple Express
      K2 Pink
      K2 Pink Panties
      K2 Sex
      K2 Silver
      K2 Solid Sex on the Mountain
      K2 Standard
      K2 Strawberry
      K2 Summit
      K2 Summit Coffee Wonk
      K2 Thai Dream
      K2 Ultra
      K2 Watermelon
      K3
      K3 Blueberry
      K3 Cosmic Blend
      K3 Dusk
      K3 Grape
      K3 Heaven Improved
      K3 Heaven Legal
      K3 Kryptonite
      K3 Legal
      K3 Legal- Earth (silver)
      K3 Legal- Original (Black)
      K3 Legal- Sea (silver)
      K3 Legal- Sun (Black)
      K3 Mango
      K3 Original
      K3 Original Improved
      K3 Strawberry
      K3 Sun
      K3 Sun Improved
      K3 Sun Legal
      K3 XXX
      K4 Bubble Bubble
      K4 Gold
      K4 Purple Haze
      K4 Silver
      K4 Summit Remix
      Kind Spice
      Legal Eagle Apple Pie
      Love Potion 69
      Love Strawberry
      Magic Dragon Platinum
      Magic Gold
      Magic Silver
      Magic Spice
      Mega Bomb
      Mid-Atlantic Exemplar
      Midnight Chill
      MNGB Almond/Vanilla
      MNGB Peppermint
      MNGB Pinata Colada
      MNGB Spear Mint
      MNGB Tropical Thunder
      Moe Joe Fire
      Mojo
      Mr. Smiley's
      MTN-787
      Mystery
      Naughty Nights
      New Improved K3 Cosmic Blend
      New Improved K3 Dynamite
      New Improved K3 Kryptonite
      New K3 Earth
      New K3 Heaven
      New K3 Improved
      New K3 Sea Improved
      New-Kron Bomb
      Nitro
      Ocean Blue
      Paradise
      p.e.p. pourri Love Strawberry
      p.e.p. pourri Twisted Spearmint
      p.e.p. pourri Twisted Vanilla
      p.e.p. pourri X Blueberry
      Pink Tiger
      Potpourri
      Potpourri Gold
      POW
      Pulse
      Rasta Citrus Spice
      Rebel Spice
      Red Bird
      S1. S Werve
      Samurai Spirit
      Sativah
      Scope Vanilla
      Scope Wildberry
      Sence
      Shanti Spice
      Shanti Spice Blueberry
      Silent Black
      Skunk
      Smoke
      Smoke Plus
      Space
      Spice Artic Synergy
      Spice Diamond
      Spice Gold
      Spice Silver
      Spice Tropical Synergy
      Spicey XXX
      Spicey Regular XXX Blueberry
      Spicey Regular XXX Strawberry
      Spicey Ultra Strong XXX Strawberry
      Spicey Ultra Strong XXX Vanilla
      Spicylicious
      Spike 99
      Spike 99 Ultra
      Spike 99 Ultra Blueberry
      Spike 99 Ultra Cherry
      Spike 99 Ultra Strawberry
      Spike Diamond
      Spike Gold
      Spike Maxx
      Spike Silver
      Stinger
      Summer Skyy
      Super Summit
      Swagger Grape
      SYN Chill
      SYN Incense LemonLime
      SYN Incense Smooth
      SYN Incense Spearmint
      SYN Lemon Lime
      SYN Lemon Lime #2
      SYN Smooth
      SYN Spearmint
      SYN Spearmint #2
      SYN Suave
      SYN Swagg
      SYN Vanilla
      SYN Vanilla #2
      Texas Gold
      Time Warp
      Tribal Warrior Ultra Cloud 10
      Unknown Cigarette
      Utopia
      Utopia-Blue Berry
      Voo Doo Remix (black package)
      Voo Doo Remix (orange package)
      Voodoo Child
      Voodoo Magic
      Voodoo Remix
      Who Dat
      Who Dat Herbal Incense
      Wicked X
      Winter Boost
      Wood Stock
      XTREME Spice
      Yucatan Fire
      Zombie World
    SALVINORIN A; AND SALVIA DIVINORUM: All parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as Salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of that plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts, isomers, and salts of isomers whenever the existence of
such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specific
chemical designation, derivative, mixture, or preparation of that plant, its
seed or extracts.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID: Any laboratory created compound that functions
similar to the active ingredients in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC),
including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material,
compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including isomers,
esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor
agonist, such as:
      JWH-007 (1-pentyl-2-methyl-3-(1- naphthoyl)indole)
      JWH-015 (2-methyl-1-propyl-1H-indol-3-yl)-1- naphthalenylmethanone
      JWH-018 (1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthalen-1-oyl)indole)
      JWH-019 (1hexyl-3-(naphthalene-1-oyl)indole)
      JWH-073 (naphthalene-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3- yl)mehanone)
      JWH-081 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1- pentylindol-3-yl)methanone)
      JWH-098 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(plenty-2- methylindol-3-yl)methanone
      JWH-122 (1-pentyl-3-(4-methyl-1- naphthoyl)indole)
      JWH-164 (7-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1- pentylindol-3-yl)methanone)
      JWH-200 (1-(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-3-yl)- naphthalen-1-ylmethanone
      JWH-203 (2-(2-chlorophenyl)-1-(1-plentylindol- 3-yl)ethanone
      JWH-210 (4-ethylnaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol- 3-yl)methanone
      JWH-250 (1-pentyl-3-(2- methylphenylacety)indole)
      JWH-251 (1-pentyl-3-(2- methylphenylacetyl)indole)
      JWH-398 (1-pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1- naphthoyl)indole)
      HU-210 ((6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6- dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-
yl)-6a, 7, 10, 10a- tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-ol)
      HU-211 ((6aS, 10aS)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6- dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-
yl)-6a, 7, 10, 10a- tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-ol)
      HU-308 ([(1R, 2R, 5R)-2-[2, 6-dimethoxy-4-(2- methyloctan-2-yl)phenyl]-
7,7-dimethyl-4- bicyclo[3.1.1]hept-3-enyl] methanol)
      HU-331 ((3-hydroxy-2-[(1R,6R)-3-methyl-6-(1- methylethenyl)-2-cyclohexen-
1-yl]-5-pentyl-2,5- cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione)
      CP 55,940 (2-[(1R,2R,5R)-5-hydroxy-2-(3- hydroxypropyl) cyclohexyl]-5-(2-
methyloctan-2- yl)phenol)
      CP 47, 497 (2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5- (2-methyloctan-2-
yl)phenol) and its homologues
      WIN 55,212-2 ((R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3- (4-
morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo [1,2,3-de)-1,4- benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-
nepthalenymethanone)
      RCS-4 ((4-methoxyphenyl)(1-pentyl-1H-indol-3- yl)methanone)
      RCS-8 (1-(1-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-1H-indol-3-yl)- 2-(2-
methoxyoheny)ethanone
   SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/HALLUCINOGEN: Any compound that mimics the effects of
any federally controlled schedule I substance, including, but not limited to,
any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture,
preparation, substance and their analog (including salts, isomers, esters,
ethers and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a psychedelic/
hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system and/or brain, such as:
      2-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-E);
      2-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl)ethanamine (2-C-D);
      2-(4-Chloro-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-C);
      2-(4-Iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-I);
      2-(4-Ethylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-T-2);
      2-(4-Isopropylthio)-2,5-dimethoxy phenyl)ethanamine (2C-T-4);
      2-(2,5-Dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-H);
      2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-nitro-phenyl)ethanamine (2C-N);
      2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-(n)-propylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-P)
   SYNTHETIC STIMULANT: Any compound that mimics the effects of any Federally
controlled schedule I substance such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and
MDEA, including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including
salts, isomers, and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a
stimulant effect on the central nervous system, such as:
      3-Fluoromethcathinone
      4-Fluoromethcathinone (other name: flephedrone)
      3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone (other name: Methylone, MDMC)
      3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone (other name: MDPV)
      4-Methylmethcathinon (other names: mephedrone, 4-MMC)
      4-Methoxymethcathinone (other names: methedrone, bk-PMMA, PMMC)
      4-Ethylmethcathinone (other name: 4-EMC)
      Ethcathinone
      Beta-keto-N-methylbenzodioxyolylpropylamine (other names: butylone, bk-
MBDB)
      Napthylpyrovalerone (other names: naphyrone, NRG-1)
      N,N-dimethylcathinone (other name: metamfepramone)
      Alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: alpha-PPP)
      4-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MOPPP)
      3,4-methylenedioxy-alpha- pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MDPPP)
      Alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone (other name: alpha-PVP)
      6,7-kihydro-5H-indeno(5,6-d)-1,3-dioxal-6- amine) (other name: MDAI)
   Any compound that is structurally derived from 2-amino-1-phenyl-1-propanone
by modification or substitution in any of the following ways:
      In the phenyl ring to any extent with alkyl, alkoxy, alkylenedioxy, or
halide substituents, whether or not further substituted in the phenyl ring by
one or more other univalent substituents;
      At the 3-position with an alkyl substituent;
      At the nitrogen atom with alkyl, dialky, benzyl, or methoxybenzyl groups;
      Or by inclusion of the nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure.
   B.   Sale Or Delivery: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer
for sale or deliver any product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant
or psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   C.   Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess a
product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/
hallucinogen.
   D.   Use: It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of a
synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen. (Ord. O-12-002,
2-3-2012)
   E.   Penalty: Any person found guilty by a preponderance of the evidence of
a violation of this section shall be guilty of a business offense and shall be
fined an amount as specified in the master fee schedule. Each day that a
violation is found to have existed shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. O-
18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 14.518. Public Indecency.
   A.   Any person of the age of seventeen (17) years and upwards who performs
any of the following acts in a public place commits a public indecency:
      1.   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct; or
      2.   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to satisfy
the sexual desire of the person.
Breast-feeding of infants is not an act of public indecency.
   B.   "Public place" for purposes of this section means any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others. (1976 Code §17-17;
amd. Ord. O-21-023, 9-16-2021)
Sec. 14.519. [Reserved].
 
Sec. 14.520. Gambling.
   A.   Gambling Prohibited: Except for video gaming at licensed
establishments, as provided for by the Video Gaming Act, 230 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 40/1 et seq., it shall be unlawful to gamble or attend any gambling
establishment, or to make any bet, lottery or gambling hazard, or to buy or
sell any chance or tickets in any gambling game, arrangement or device.
   B.   Advertising Gambling: Except for video gaming at licensed
establishments, as provided for by the Video Gaming Act, 230 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 40/1 et seq., it shall be unlawful to advertise any gambling
establishment in any street, alley or other public place.
   C.   Possession Of Gambling Paraphernalia: Except for video gaming at
licensed establishments, as provided for by the Video Gaming Act, 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., it shall be unlawful to possess any gambling
device or paraphernalia with the intent to use the same for an unlawful
purpose, and any such device or paraphernalia kept with such intent may be
confiscated by the Police Department.
   D.   Gambling Houses: It shall be unlawful to maintain a gambling
establishment. (Ord. O-12-027, 7-19-2012)
Sec. 14.521. Spray Paint And Wide Tipped Markers.
   A.   Spray Paint: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for
sale, cause to be sold, give or otherwise provide any aerosol or pressurized
container of paint, dye, ink or similar substance to any person under the age
of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Wide Tipped Marker: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer
for sale, cause to be sold, give or otherwise provide to any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years a marker having a marking tip of one-fourth inch (1/
4") or more in diameter.
   C.   Possession Of Graffiti Paraphernalia: It shall be unlawful for any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years who is in a public place or upon
private property, without the consent of the owner, lessee, or other person
entitled to legal possession thereof, and who is not accompanied by a
responsible adult, to possess an aerosol or pressurized container of paint,
dye, ink or similar substance; or to possess a marker having a marking tip of
one-fourth inch (1/4") or more in diameter.
   D.   Restrictions On Manner Of Sale:
      1.   All persons offering for sale pressurized containers which contain
paint shall restrict access to those items from the public by placing them
beneath a locked counter, cabinet or other storage facility so that access to
them cannot be gained without their being unlocked by an authorized employee,
agent or other authorized representative of such person. All persons offering
for sale markers having a marking tip of one-fourth inch (1/4") or more in
diameter shall keep such markers in a location where they can be in constant
view of the employee, agent or other authorized representative of the person
selling the marker.
      2.   Every place in the City where spray paint in cans or wide tipped
markers are sold shall display at all times, in a prominent location, a printed
card which shall be issued by the City Clerk and which shall read substantially
as follows:
   MINORS, you are subject to a fine up to $500.00 under the ordinances of the
City of Wood Dale, Illinois, if you PURCHASE spray paint in cans or wide-tipped
markers, or MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE for the purpose of purchasing spray paint in
cans or wide-tipped markers. OFFICIAL PHOTO IDENTIFICATION will be required to
prove age before purchase.
Any person who purchases or otherwise obtains spray paint in cans or wide-
tipped markers which he or she resells or gives to any minor shall also be
subject to a fine up to $500.00.
   E.   Parental Responsibility:
      1.   Failure to exercise proper parental responsibility shall occur on
the part of the parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor when in
absence of evidence to the contrary:
         a.   An unemancipated minor is adjudicated to be in violation of
subsection A, B or C of this section or has incurred nonjudicial sanctions from
another official agency resulting from an admission of guilt in violation of
this section; and
         b.   The parent or legal guardian has received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned from the
Police Department of the City following said adjudication of nonjudicial
sanctions; and
         c.   If at any time within one year following receipt of the notice
described in subsection E1b of this section, the minor is adjudicated to be in
violation of this section, or has incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another
official agency resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of this
section.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for a parent or legal guardian to commit
failure to exercise parental responsibility. (Ord. 1810, 8-17-1995)
   F.   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine as specified in the
master fee schedule. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder. In addition to the fine, the court may require that a party guilty
of violating this section shall:
      1.   Make full and complete restitution to the City and the owner of any
property damaged as a result of the violation, including expenses incurred in
restoration of the property to its previous condition; and
      2.   Participate in community service. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   G.   Parental Responsibility For Fines: If a minor shall fail to pay a fine
or restitution lawfully imposed on him or her, the parents or legal guardian(s)
of the minor shall be jointly and severally liable for said fine or
restitution. (Ord. 1810, 8-17-1995)
Sec. 14.522. Roller Skates And Toy Vehicles Prohibited On Certain City
Property.
It shall be unlawful for any person upon roller skates, rollerblades, in-line
skates, or riding in, upon, or by means of any coaster, skateboard, toy vehicle
or similar device, to go upon any City owned real estate including, but not
limited to, the lands upon which City parking lots, City Hall, the Veterans'
Memorial, the Public Works Building and the sewage treatment plants are
located. (Ord. 2053, 2-1-2001)
Sec. 14.523. Alcoholic Beverages At Train Station.
While in and upon the property commonly known as the Wood Dale Metra Train
Station or the adjacent property commonly referred to as the Wood Dale
Municipal train parking lot, located at 199 East Division Street, it shall be
unlawful to consume alcoholic liquor, as defined in section 1-3.05 of the
Liquor Control Act of 1934, or to transport, carry or possess any alcoholic
liquor, except when the alcoholic liquor is in the original container and with
its seal unbroken.
The City Manager shall cause printed signs, on which the words "No Consumption
Of Alcohol Or Possession Of Alcoholic Beverages With The Original Seal Broken
Is Permitted On The Premises" shall appear in letters at least four inches (4")
high, to be placed in at least two (2) conspicuous places in the Wood Dale
Metra Train Station and in two (2) conspicuous places in the Wood Dale
Municipal train parking lot.
Any persons found guilty of violating any provision of this section shall be
fined an amount as specified in the master fee schedule, for each offense.
(Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 14.524. Theft.
   A.   A person commits theft when he or she knowingly:
      1.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
or
      2.   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
      3.   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
      4.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him or her
to believe that the property was stolen. (Ord. O-19-021, 7-18-2019)
Sec. 14.525. Criminal Damage to Property.
   A.   A person commits criminal damage to property when he or she:
      1.   Knowingly damages any property of another; or
      2.   Recklessly by means of fire or explosive damages property of
another; or
      3.   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another; or
      4.   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent. (Ord. O-19-021, 7-18-2019)
Sec. 14.526. Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be deemed to be guilty
of an offense and shall be punished by a fine as specified in the master fee
schedule. If any violation shall be of a continuing nature, each day of
violation shall be deemed a separate offense and subject to the progressive
penalties contained therein. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE VI
MINORS
SECTION:
14.601. Curfew
14.602. Truancy Prohibited
Sec. 14.601. Curfew.
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to:
      1.   Promote the general welfare and protect the general public through
the reduction of juvenile violence and crime within the city;
      2.   Promote the safety and well being of the city's youngest citizens,
persons under the age of seventeen (17), whose inexperience renders them
particularly vulnerable to becoming participants in unlawful activities,
including unlawful drug activities, and to being victimized by older
perpetrators of crime; and
      3.   Foster and strengthen parental responsibility for children.
   B.   Definitions: As used within this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them below:
   CITY: The city of Wood Dale, Illinois.
   CURFEW HOURS: The hours of one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M.
through six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Monday through Friday, and one o'clock (1:
00) A.M. through six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Saturday and Sunday.
   EMERGENCY: Unforeseen circumstances, or the status or condition resulting
therefrom, requiring immediate action to safeguard life, limb or property. The
term includes, but is not limited to, fires, natural disasters, automobile
accidents, or other similar circumstances.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business within the city
operated for a profit, to which the public is invited, including, but not
limited to, any place of amusement or entertainment. With respect to such
establishment, the term "operator" shall mean any person, and any firm,
association, partnership (and the members or partners thereof) and/or any
corporation (and the officers thereof) conducting or managing the
establishment.
   MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age who has not been fully
or partially emancipated by court order entered pursuant to section 9 of the
emancipation of mature minors act, 750 Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/1 et seq.,
or section 2-23, 3-24, 4-21, or 5-710 of the juvenile court act, 705 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 405/2-23, 3-24, 4-21, or 5-710 unless the provision of such
order would make such person subject to the restitution of subsection C of this
section.
   OFFICER: A police or other law enforcement officer charged with the duty of
enforcing the laws of the state of Illinois or the city of Wood Dale.
   PARENTS: 1. A person who is a minor's biological or adoptive parent and who
has legal custody of a minor (including either parent, if custody is shared
under a court order or agreement);
      2.   A person who is the biological or adoptive parent with whom a minor
legally resides;
      3.   A person judicially appointed as a legal guardian of the minor; and/
or
      4.   A person eighteen (18) years of age or older standing in loco
parentis as indicated by the authorization of an individual listed in
subsection 1, 2 or 3 of this definition, for the person to assume the care or
physical custody of the child, or as indicated by any other circumstance.
   PERSON: An individual, not to any association, corporation, or any other
legal entity.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, including, but not limited to: streets, highways, roads,
sidewalks, alleys, avenues, parks, and/or the common areas of schools,
hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings, transportation facilities and
shops.
   REMAIN: Refers to the following actions:
      1.   To linger or stay at or upon a place; and/or
      2.   To fail to leave a place when requested to do so by an officer or by
the owner, operator or other person in control of that place.
   C.   Curfew Restrictions And Exceptions: It shall be unlawful for a minor
during curfew hours to remain in or upon any public place within the city, to
remain in any motor vehicle operating or parked therein or thereon, or to
remain in or upon the premises of any establishment within the city, unless:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent; or
      2.   The minor is involved in an emergency; or
      3.   The minor is engaged in an employment activity, or is going to or
returning home from such activity, without detour or stop; or
      4.   The minor is on the sidewalk directly abutting a place where he or
she resides or abutting the residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor
has not complained to the police about the minor's presence; or
      5.   The minor is attending an activity sponsored by a school, religious,
or civic organization, by a public organization or agency, or by another
similar organization or entity, which activity is supervised by adults, and/or
the minor is going to or returning from such an activity without detour or
stop; or
      6.   The minor is exercising first amendment rights protected by the
United States constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech and the right to free assembly; or
      7.   The minor is involved in interstate travel through, or beginning or
terminating in, the city; or
      8.   The minor is out in accordance with a written authorization of a
parent. In order to comply with this subsection C8 the minor must have in his
or her immediate possession a writing signed by the parent containing the
following information: the name of the minor; the name, signature, address and
telephone number of the authorizing parent; the date for which the
authorization is valid; the times between which the minor is authorized to be
out and the places during those times where the minor is authorized to be
present; and the phone number where the parent may be reached during the time
the minor is authorized to be out. No written authorization as provided for
herein shall be valid for more than one date.
   D.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for a minor's parent to
knowingly permit, allow or encourage such minor to violate subsection C of this
section.
   E.   Motor Vehicle Owner Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for a person
who is the owner or operator of any motor vehicle to knowingly permit, allow or
encourage a violation of subsection C of this section.
   F.   Establishment Owner Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for the owner
or operator of any establishment, or for any person who is an employee thereof,
to knowingly permit, allow or encourage a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours unless allowed under subsection C of this
section. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this subsection that the
owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the police
department that a minor was unlawfully present at the establishment after
curfew hours and refuse to leave.
   G.   Unlawful To Give False Information: It shall be unlawful for any person
(including any minor) to give false name, address, or telephone number to any
officer investigating a possible violation of this section.
   H.   Enforcement:
      1.   Minors: Before taking any enforcement action hereunder, an officer
shall make an immediate investigation for the purpose of ascertaining whether
or not the presence of the minor is a public place, motor vehicle and/or
establishment within the city during curfew hours is in violation of this
section.
         a.   If such investigation reveals that the presence of such minor is
in violation of this section, then:
            (1)   If the minor has not previously been issued a warning for any
such violation, then the officer shall issue a verbal warning to the minor,
which shall be followed by a written warning mailed by the police department to
the minor and his or her parent(s), or
            (2)   If the minor has previously been issued a warning for any
such violation within one year, then the officer may make a petition pursuant
to section 3-15 of the juvenile court act of 1987, 705 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 405/3-15.
         b.   The officer shall take the minor into limited custody in
accordance with section 3-4 of the juvenile court act of 1987, 705 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 405/3-4.
      2.   Others: If an investigation by an officer reveals that a person has
violated subsections D, E, and/or F of this section and if the person has not
previously been issued a warning with respect to any such violation, an officer
shall issue a verbal warning to the person, which shall be followed by a
written warning mailed by the police department to the person; however, if any
such warning has previously been issued to the person within one year, then the
officer may charge the person with a violation.
   I.   Misdemeanor: Each violation of subsections D, E, and/or F of this
section shall constitute a class C misdemeanor.
   J.   Effectiveness And Need: Within one year after the effective date
hereof, the city manager shall report and make recommendations to the city
council concerning the effectiveness of and the continuing need for this
section. The city manager's report shall specifically include the following
information:
      1.   The practicality of enforcing this section and any problems with
enforcement identified by the police department; and
      2.   The impact and cost of this section; and
      3.   Other data and information which the police department believes to
be relevant in assessing the effectiveness of this section; and
      4.   Information from citizens regarding whether this section has been
administered and enforced fairly, including information regarding the age,
gender and race of those charged or detained under this section. (Ord. O-04-
017, 5-20-2004)
Sec. 14.602. Truancy Prohibited.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any minor enrolled in a public, private, or
parochial school located within the corporate limits of the city or in a school
operated by a school district with which the city has an intergovernmental
agreement to provide police services to absent himself from attendance at
school without the permission of his parent or legal guardian. Emergency or
unforeseen absence without the permission of his parent or legal guardian,
because of illness or other cause beyond the control of such minor, shall not
constitute "truancy" within the meaning of this section, provided such
permission has been obtained in substance and is confirmed in writing by his
parent or legal guardian to the proper school authorities within twenty four
(24) hours after such absence. (Ord. 2020, 6-1-2000)
ARTICLE VII
PARADES
SECTION:
14.701. Permit Required
14.702. Bond
Sec. 14.701. Permit Required.
It shall be unlawful to conduct any parade on any public street, alley or other
public way or place without a permit from the council. (1976 Code §13-101)
Sec. 14.702. Bond.
A bond conditioned to indemnify the city from any loss, damage or liability
incurred or caused by a parade, shall be required. (1976 Code §13-102; amd.
Ord. O-16-033, 11-17-2016)
CHAPTER 15
TRAFFIC CODE
ARTICLE I
VEHICLE CODE
SECTION:
15.101. Adoption, Penalties And Definitions
15.102. Affirmation
15.103. Alley
15.104. Bicycle
15.105. Bumper
15.106. Certificate Of Purchase
15.107. City
15.108. Department
15.109. Districts
15.110. Drag Racing
15.111. Driver
15.112. Driver's License
15.113. Essential Parts
15.114. Explosives
15.115. Fire Lane
15.116. Flammable Liquid
15.117. For Hire
15.118. Holidays
15.119. License To Drive
15.120. Muffler
15.121. Not For Hire
15.122. Official Time
15.123. Official Traffic Control Device
15.124. Park Or Parking
15.125. Parking Meter
15.126. Person
15.127. Property
15.128. Property Line
15.129. Public Building
15.130. Pushcar
15.131. Racing Of Motor
15.132. Railroad
15.133. Railroad-Highway Grade Crossing
15.134. Railroad Train
15.135. Rescue Squad
15.136. Reversible Lane
15.137. Right-Of-Way
15.138. Safety Glazing Materials
15.139. Seat Safety Belts
15.140. Shopping Center
15.141. Shoulder
15.142. Situs Or Base Of Vehicle
15.143. Speed Change Lane
15.144. Stand Or Standing
15.145. Stop
15.146. Street Or Highway
15.147. Stunting
15.148. Suspension System
15.149. Terminal
15.150. Tires
15.151. Touring
15.152. Traffic
15.153. Vehicles
15.154. Weight
15.155. Yield Right-Of-Way
Sec. 15.101. Adoption, Penalties And Definitions.
   A.   Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-204, 2009, the City of
Wood Dale hereby adopts and incorporates by reference into this Code each and
every provision of the Illinois Vehicle Code as contained in act 5, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes, as amended from time to time, as if fully set out
in this Code. The penalties and all administrative revocation or suspension
procedures provided in the Illinois Vehicle Code are included in this adoption
by reference. Any proceeding resulting from a violation of an Illinois Vehicle
Code regulation, written as a violation of this Code, shall be deemed to be a
civil matter for purposes of burden of proof and rules of court. The only
exceptions to this shall be citations written for offenses permitting
incarceration as a penalty or if the Illinois Vehicle Code specifies otherwise.
Three (3) copies of said Illinois Vehicle Code are on file in the Office of the
City Clerk. The fact that a particular activity is proscribed or regulated in
both the Illinois Vehicle Code and another section of this chapter shall not
affect either the validity of this section or the validity of this Code
regulation. Except where noted, if any provisions in the Illinois Vehicle Code
and this chapter are inconsistent with each other, the provisions as set forth
in this Code shall govern.
Any regulation found in the Illinois Vehicle Code may be cited as a regulation
of this Code by placing before it the prefix "WD". (Ord. O-09-009, 5-2-2009)
   B.   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the court shall impose a
fine as specified in the master fee schedule for each violation of any
provision of this chapter.
   C.   The court, upon making a finding of guilty for any offense under
section WD-11-501 of this Code, in addition to any sentencing alternatives
elected by the court, shall impose a fine as specified in the master fee
schedule for each such offense.
The court, upon making a finding of guilty for any offense under section WD-11-
1301.3(a) of this Code, shall impose a fine as specified in the master fee
schedule. (Ord. O-09-009, 5-2-2009; amd. Ord. O-18-023, 7-19-2018)
   D.   Whenever in this chapter the words and phrases in sections 15.102
through 15.155 of this article are used, they shall, for the purposes of this
chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this article,
except when the context otherwise indicates. (Ord. O-09-009, 5-2-2009)
Sec. 15.102. Affirmation.
A signed statement to the effect that the information provided by the signer is
true and correct. The affirmation shall subject any person who shall knowingly
affirm falsely, in matter material to any issue or point in question, to the
penalties inflicted by law on persons convicted of perjury under section 32-
2 of the criminal code of 1961 1 . (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/32-2.
Sec. 15.103. Alley.
A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots or
buildings and not used for general traffic circulation. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.104. Bicycle.
Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having
two (2) tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices, either of which is
more than sixteen inches (16") in diameter. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. 1993
Code)
Sec. 15.105. Bumper.
Every device or system or devices protruding from and attached to the front and
rear of a motor vehicle which has been designed to be used to absorb the impact
of a collision. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.106. Certificate Of Purchase.
A bill of sale given to a licensee making an acquisition of a vehicle under
sections 4-208 and 4-209 of the "Illinois vehicle code". (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.107. City.
The city of Wood Dale, Illinois. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.108. Department.
The police department of the city of Wood Dale. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.109. Districts.
The word "district" may be used with reference to: (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
   A.   Business district: The territory of the city contiguous to and
including a highway when, within six hundred feet (600') along such highway,
there are any buildings in use for business or industrial purposes including,
but not limited to, hotels, banks or office buildings, railroad stations and
public buildings which occupy at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on
one side or three hundred feet (300') collectively on both sides of the
highway. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. 1993 Code)
   B.   Residence district: The territory of the city contiguous to and
including a highway not comprising a business district when the property on
such highway for a distance of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main
improved with residences or residences and buildings in use for business. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-1985)
For purposes of establishing maximum speed limits, a residence district shall
be at least one-fourth (1/4) of a mile long with residences or residence
buildings in use for businesses spaced no more than three hundred feet (300')
apart. (1993 Code)
   C.   Suburban district: That portion of the city other than the business and
residence districts.
   D.   Urban district: The territory contiguous to and including any street
which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling
houses situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a
distance of one-fourth (1/4) of a mile or so. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.110. Drag Racing.
The act of two (2) or more individuals competing or racing on any street or
highway in this city in a situation in which one of the motor vehicles is
beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a competing driver and the
one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing or overtaking
him, either by acceleration or maneuver, or one or more individuals competing
in a race against time on any street or highway in this city. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
1985)
Sec. 15.111. Driver.
Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.112. Driver's License.
Any license to operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this state.
(1993 Code)
Sec. 15.113. Essential Parts.
All integral and body parts of a vehicle of a type required to be registered
hereunder, the removal, alteration or substitution of which would tend to
conceal the identity of the vehicle or substantially alter its appearance,
model, type or mode of operation. "Essential parts" includes the following:
vehicle hulks, shells, chassis, frames, front end assemblies (which may consist
of headlight, grill, fenders and hood), front clip (front end assembly with
cowl attached), rear clip (which may consist of quarter panels, fenders, floor
and top), doors, hatchbacks, fenders, quarter panels, cabs, cab clips, cowls,
hoods, trunk lids, deck lids, T-tops, sunroofs, moon roofs, astro roofs,
transmissions, engines and similar parts. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.114. Explosives.
Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or intended
for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any oxidizing and
combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion or
by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause such a sudden
generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous pressures are
capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or of destroying
life or limb. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.115. Fire Lane.
Any travel lanes reserved for firefighting equipment so that such fire
equipment can move freely thereon. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.116. Flammable Liquid.
Any liquid which has a flash point of seventy degrees (70°) Fahrenheit or less,
as determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed-cup test device. (Ord. 1312,
9-5-85)
Sec. 15.117. For-Hire.
The operation of a vehicle for compensation and subject to Federal regulation
by the Interstate Commerce Commission or to State regulation by the Illinois
Commerce Commission and those vehicles governed by chapters 8 and 9 under the
"Illinois Vehicle Code" 1  and regulated by the Secretary of State. (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS 5/8-101 et seq. and 5/9-101 et seq.
Sec. 15.118. Holidays.
When used in this Chapter or on official signs authorized by this Chapter,
holidays shall mean: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence
Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.119. License to Drive.
Any driver's license or permit to operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws
of this State, including:
   A.   Any temporary license or instruction permit.
   B.   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle whether or not
such person holds a valid license or permit.
   C.   Any nonresident's driving privilege as defined herein. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.120. Muffler.
A device consisting of a series of chambers or baffle plates or other
mechanical design for the purpose of receiving exhaust gas from an internal
combustion engine and effective in reducing noise. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.121. Not-For-Hire.
Operation of a commercial vehicle in furtherance of any commercial or
industrial enterprise by not-for-hire. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.122. Official Time.
Standard or daylight-saving time, whichever may be in current use in this City.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.123. Official Traffic-Control Device.
All signs, signals, markings and devices which conform with the State of
Illinois Manual and not inconsistent with this Chapter, placed or erected by
authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic, including:
   A.   Lane-Control Signal: An electrically controlled and illuminated signal
of a square or rectangular design and employing distinctive colors or symbols
used to control the direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which
the indication applies.
   B.   Railroad Signs or Signals: Any sign, signal or device, other than an
official traffic-control signal or device, erected in accordance with the laws
governing same and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad tracks
or the approach of a railroad train.
   C.   Traffic-Control Signal: Any official traffic-control device, other than
a railroad sign or signal device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.124. Park or Parking.
When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading of merchandise or passengers. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.125. Parking Meter.
A mechanical device located upon a public street, sidewalk or other place
designated as a parking meter zone, which device may be activated by the
appropriate United States coins and which thereafter clocks the number of
minutes of parking privilege thereby extended to the person depositing such
coin or coins. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.126. Person.
Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or corporation,
including:
   A.   Chauffeur:
      1.   All persons employed by another for the principal purpose of driving
a motor vehicle, and
      2.   All persons who drive a school bus transporting children, and
      3.   All persons employed in connection with the operation of any school,
day camp, summer camp or nursery school who drive any motor vehicle
transporting children to or from any school, day camp, summer camp or nursery
school, and
      4.   All persons who drive any motor vehicle when in use for the
transportation of persons or property for compensation, and
      5.   All persons, except those who are engaged in a ridesharing
arrangement, who are employed to drive a commuter van while transporting
persons to and from their place of employment.
   B.   Crossing Guard: An adult civilian authorized by the Wood Dale Chief of
Police to supervise and expedite the crossing of pedestrians at assigned
crossings.
   C.   Driver: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   D.   Handicapped Person: Every natural person who is unable to walk two
hundred feet (200') or more unassisted by another person or without the aid of
a walker, crutches, braces, prosthetic device or a wheelchair or without great
difficulty or discomfort due to the following impairments: neurologic,
orthopedic, respiratory, cardiac, arthritic disorder, blindness or the loss of
function or absence of a limb or limbs.
   E.   Motor Carrier: An operator of for-hire vehicles pursuant to the
Illinois State Motor Carrier of Property Law.
   F.   Nonresident: Every person who is not a resident of the State of
Illinois.
   G.   Operator: Every person, other than a chauffeur, who drives or is in
actual physical control of a motor vehicle upon a highway or who is exercising
control over or steering a vehicle being towed by a motor vehicle.
   H.   Owner: A person who holds the legal title of a motor vehicle or, in the
event a motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale
or lease thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions
stated in the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee or in the event a mortgager of such motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgager
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this Chapter.
   J.   Pedestrian: Any person afoot.
   K.   Physically Handicapped Person: Every person who drives, who is in
actual physical control of or who owns any vehicle; provided, that any such
vehicle so driven, controlled or owned bears registration plates marked with
special designations made by the Secretary of State, in his discretion,
indicating that such vehicle is being driven, controlled or owned by such
physically handicapped person or disabled veteran.
   L.   Police Officer: Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic
or to make arrests for violation of traffic regulations.
   M.   Resident:
      1.   Every natural person who resides in this State shall be deemed a
resident of the State of Illinois.
      2.   In the case of a firm, co-partnership or association, if the
principal place of business of such firm, co-partnership or association is
located in the State of Illinois, then such firm, co-partnership or association
shall be deemed a resident of the State of Illinois.
      3.   In the case of a corporation, if the corporation was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Illinois or if the principal place of business
of such corporation is in the State of Illinois, then such corporation shall be
deemed a resident of the State of Illinois.
   N.   Secretary or Secretary of State: The Secretary of State of the State of
Illinois.
   O.   Transporter: Every person engaged in the business of transporting
vehicles, not his own, by driving, either singly or by the tower, saddle mount
or full mount methods or any combinations thereof or by drawing or towing house
trailers, including their coupling devices, and using the public streets or
highways of the City therefor. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.127. Property.
Any real property within the City which is not a street or highway. (Ord. 1312,
9-5-85)
Sec. 15.128. Property Line.
The line of demarcation between a public way and private property abutting
thereon. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.129. Public Building.
Any building or portion of any building occupied and used by any governmental
agency. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.130. Pushcar.
A conveyance designed to be propelled by a person on foot. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.131. Racing of Motor.
A sudden acceleration or deceleration of the motor of a motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.132. Railroad.
A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars, operating
upon stationary rails. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.133. Railroad-Highway Grade Crossing.
The intersection of stationary rails owned or used in the operation of a
railroad corporation across a highway. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.134. Railroad Train.
A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars coupled thereto,
operating upon rails, except streetcars. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.135. Rescue Squad.
A voluntary association of individuals or a fire department dedicated to saving
lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked vehicles or other
hazardous circumstances and associated with some unit of government. (1993
Code)
Sec. 15.136. Reversible Lane.
A lane of a two- or more laned roadway upon which traffic may be directed to
move in any direction by means of lane-control signals or other devices in
conjunction with official signs. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.137. Right of Way.
The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful manner in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.138. Safety Glazing Materials.
Glazing materials so constructed, treated or combined with other materials as
to reduce substantially, in comparison with ordinary sheet glass or plate
glass, the likelihood of injury to persons by objects from exterior sources or
by these safety glazing materials when they may be cracked or broken. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.139. Seat Safety Belts.
A set of belts or a harness meeting the specifications established by the State
of Illinois Department of Public Safety and installed in such manner as to
prevent or materially reduce the movement of the person using the same in the
event of collision or upset of the vehicle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.140. Shopping Center.
Premises having one or more stores or business establishments, in connection
with which there is provided, on privately-owned property near or contiguous
thereto, an area or areas of land used by the public as the means of access to
and egress from the stores and business establishments on such premises and for
the parking of motor vehicles of customers and patrons of such stores and
business establishments on such premises. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.141. Shoulder.
That portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for accommodating stopped
vehicles or for emergency use. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.142. Situs or Base of Vehicle.
The place where a vehicle is principally garaged, or from whence it is
principally dispatched, or where the movements of such vehicle usually
originate. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.143. Speed Change Lane.
An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for the acceleration or
deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through traffic areas. (1993
Code)
Sec. 15.144. Stand or Standing.
The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than when
temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or discharging passengers. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.145. Stop.
When required, means complete cessation from movement.
   A.   Stop or Stopping: When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily,
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   B.   Bus Stop: A designated area in the roadway, parallel and adjacent to
the curb or shoulder, used for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.146. Street or Highway.
The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when
any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular
travel, including:
   A.   Arterial or Major Street: Any United States or Illinois State numbered
route, controlled access highway or other major radial or circumferential
street or highway designated by the City Council within the corporate limits of
the City as part of a major arterial system of streets or highways. (Ord. 1312,
9-5-85; 1993 Code)
   B.   Bus Stand: A designated area in the roadway, parallel and adjacent to
the curb or shoulder to be occupied exclusively by buses, for purposes of
maintaining schedules or awaiting passengers.
   C.   Collector or Secondary Streets: Any street which provides for traffic
movement between arterial and local streets and direct access to abutting
property.
   D.   Controlled Access Highway: Every highway, street or roadway in respect
to which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in the
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street or roadway.
   E.   Crosswalk:
      1.   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of the
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with such extension forming a right angle to the center line of the highway.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
      2.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface
placed in accordance with the provisions of the Manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85; 1993 Code)
   F.   Improved Highway: Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone or gravel.
   G.   Intersection:
      1.   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
roadways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      2.   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways forty feet (40') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. (Ord. 1312,
9-5-85)
      3.   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not
constitute an intersection. (1993 Code)
   H.   Laned Roadway: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   J.   Local or Minor Street: A street primarily for access to residence,
business or other abutting property.
   K.   Loading Zone: A designated area in the roadway, adjacent to the curb or
shoulder, to be occupied exclusively by vehicles during the loading or
unloading of passengers and/or material.
   L.   One-Way Street or One-Way Alley: A public way in which traffic is
permitted to travel in only one direction.
   M.   Parking Meter Zone: A designated and marked off area in the roadway,
adjacent to the curb or shoulder or any other place so designated, to be
occupied exclusively by vehicles for the purpose of parking for the period of
time allocated to the zone by the parking meter.
   N.   Parkway: That area of a street between the edge of the curb or edge of
the paved portion of the roadway (where there is no curb) and the public
sidewalk, or (where there is no public sidewalk) the real estate adjacent to
the street.
   O.   Private Road or Driveway: Every way or place in private ownership and
used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner but not by other persons.
   P.   Public Way: Any sidewalk, roadway, alley or other thoroughfare open to
the use of the public as a matter of right for the purpose of travel.
   Q.   Roadway: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a
highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway", as used
herein, shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
   R.   Safety Zone: The area or space officially set apart with a roadway for
the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   S.   Sidewalk: That portion of a street between the curb lines or the
lateral lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use
of pedestrians. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
   T.   State Highways: Whenever the term "State highways" is used in this
Chapter, it shall be construed to include the State highways as defined in the
"Illinois Highway Code" as the same may from time to time be amended. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-85; 1993 Code)
   U.   Taxicab Stand: A designated area in the roadway, adjacent to the curb
or shoulder, to be occupied exclusively by taxicabs for purposes of standing or
awaiting passengers.
   V.   Through Highway: Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular
traffic is given preferential right of way and at the entrances to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right
of way to vehicles on such through highway in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign when such signs are erected as provided in this Chapter. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.147. Stunting.
Operation of a vehicle in a manner causing it to weave or suddenly change
course, or the loss of body contact with seat by a driver or passenger and not
for the purpose of safe operation of such vehicle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.148. Suspension System.
The system of devices consisting of but not limited to: springs, spring
shackles, shock absorbers, torsion bars, frame or any other supporting members
used to attach the body of a motor vehicle to its axle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.149. Terminal.
A designated area, including buildings, structures and equipment located at the
origin or destination of a transportation movement and used for the
transferring, handling, delivery and receiving of passengers and/or property.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.150. Tires.
"Tires" shall include:
   A.   Metal Tire: Every tire with surface of which in contact with the
highway is wholly or partly of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
   B.   Pneumatic Tire: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to
support the load.
   C.   Solid Tire: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does
not depend upon compressed air for the support of the load. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.151. Touring.
Any repetitious driving of motorcycles or motor-driven cycles in the same area
which causes a disturbance or is done with the intent of calling attention to
an operator of a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.152. Traffic.
Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and other
conveyances, either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
   A.   Merging Traffic: A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on
converging roadways to permit entry into the junction thereof, wherein the
driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his vehicular speed and
lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any other vehicle. (Ord. 1312,
9-5-1985; amd. 1993 Code)
Sec. 15.153. Vehicles.
   A.   Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and snowmobiles as defined in
the snowmobile registration and safety act 1 . For purposes of this chapter,
unless otherwise prescribed, a device shall be considered to be a vehicle until
such time as it either comes within the definition of a junk vehicle so defined
under this chapter or a junking certificate is issued for it. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
1985; amd. 1993 Code)
   B.   The meaning of the word "vehicle" includes, but shall not be limited
to, the following:
    ABANDONED VEHICLES: A motor vehicle standing or parked on a public way
which is either:
      1.   In such a state of disrepair as to be incapable of being driven or
operated in its condition, or
      2.   Unmoved or unused for seven (7) consecutive days or more.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE: Any motorized off highway vehicle device, fifty inches
(50") or less in width, having a manufacturer's dry weight of six hundred (600)
pounds or less, traveling on three (3) or more low pressure tires, designed
with a seat or saddle for operator use and handlebars or steering wheel for
steering control.
   AMBULANCE: Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is specifically
designed, constructed or modified and equipped, and is intended to be used for,
and is maintained or operated for the emergency transportation of persons who
are sick, injured, wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle that is more than twenty five (25) years
of age, or a bona fide replica thereof, and which is driven on the highways
only going to and returning from an antique auto show or an exhibition or for
serving or demonstration, or a firefighting vehicle more than twenty (20) years
old which is not used as firefighting equipment but is used only for the
purpose of exhibition or demonstration.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES: Emergency vehicles of the municipal
departments of the city or public service corporations as are designated or
authorized by the city council; police vehicles, vehicles of the fire
department and ambulances.
   BUS: Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying
more than ten (10) persons.
   CHARITABLE VEHICLE: 1. Any vehicle, other than a vehicle of the first
division or a school bus, which is exclusively owned and operated by a
religious or charitable not for profit organization and is used primarily in
conducting the official activities of such organization.
      2.   This definition does not include:
         a.   A bus operated by a public utility, municipal corporation or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when such bus is on a regularly scheduled route for the
transportation of other fare paying passengers or furnishing charter service
for the transportation of groups on special trips or in connection with special
events and not over a regular or customary religious organization bus route; or
         b.   A "school bus" as defined in this subsection B.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLES: Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for
hire or not for hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used in a
ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose or a recreational
vehicle not being used commercially.
      1.   Fleet: One or more commercial motor vehicles.
      2.   Nonfleet: Any one or two (2) commercial motor vehicles not part of a
fleet.
   COMMUTER VAN: A motor vehicle designed for the transportation of not less
than seven (7) nor more than sixteen (16) passengers which is:
      1.   Used in a ridesharing arrangement; or
      2.   Owned or leased by or on behalf of a company or an employee
organization and operated on a nonprofit basis with the primary purpose of
transporting employees of the company between the employees' homes and the
company's place of business or a public transportation station and in which the
operating, administrative, maintenance and reasonable depreciation costs are
paid principally by the persons utilizing the commuter van.
   FLEET SAFETY VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle which is used to supervise
operations of vehicles of the second division on the highway so as to promote
safety and legal operations of such second division vehicle.
   FUNERAL PROCESSION: A caravan or motorcade consisting of two (2) or more
motor vehicles, in combinations of any of the following: automobiles designed
and used for carrying not more than seven (7) passengers, funeral hearses and
floral cars, when such vehicles are proceeding to places of burial. For
purposes of this chapter, pedestrians or equestrian units may also constitute
funeral processions either alone or in combinations of any of the motor
vehicles described in this subsection.
   GREY MARKET VEHICLE: A vehicle not originally manufactured in compliance
with U.S. emission or safety standards.
   HOUSE TRAILER: 1. A trailer or semitrailer equipped and used for living
quarters or for human habitation (temporarily or permanently) rather than for
the transportation of freight, goods, wares and merchandise; or
      2.   A house trailer or a semitrailer which is used commercially
(temporarily or permanently), that is, for the advertising, sales, display or
promotion of merchandise or services, or for any other commercial purpose
except the transportation of property for hire or the transportation of
property for distribution by a private carrier.
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY: Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural or livestock raising operation, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry; provided, that no farm wagon,
wagon trailer or like vehicle having a gross weight of more than thirty six
thousand (36,000) pounds shall be included hereunder.
   JUNK VEHICLE: A vehicle which has been or is being disassembled, crushed,
compressed, flattened, destroyed or otherwise reduced to a state in which it no
longer can be returned to an operable state.
   MATERIALLY ALTERED VEHICLE: Any vehicle which has been modified, rebuilt,
repaired, reconstructed, restored or specially constructed.
   MEDICAL CARRIER: Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, constructed or modified and equipped, and is intended to
be used for, and is maintained or operated for the nonemergency transportation
of persons for compensation for the purpose of obtaining medical services.
   MEDICAL TRANSPORT VEHICLE: Includes ambulances, medical carriers and rescue
vehicles.
   MOTOR ASSISTED BICYCLE: Any device capable of being propelled by both human
and motorized power upon which any person may ride, having two (2) tandem
wheels.
   MOTOR ASSISTED PEDICYCLE: Any pedal driven device capable of being propelled
by human and motorized power upon which any person may ride, having two (2)
tandem wheels.
   MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLES: Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than
one hundred fifty (150) cubic centimeter piston displacement including
motorized pedalcycles.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails except for vehicles moved solely by human power and
motorized wheelchairs. For this chapter, motor vehicles are divided into two
(2) divisions:
      1.   First Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten (10) persons.
      2.   Second Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for
carrying more than ten (10) persons, those designed or used for living
quarters, and those motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying
freight or cargo or implements of husbandry, and those motor vehicles of the
first division remodeled for use and used as motor vehicles of the second
division.
   MOTORCYCLES: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground but excluding a tractor.
   MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLE: A motor driven cycle whose speed attainable in one
mile is thirty (30) miles per hour or less, which is equipped with a motor that
produces two (2) brake horsepower or less. If an internal combustion engine is
used, the displacement shall not exceed fifty (50) cubic centimeter
displacement and the power drive system shall not require the operator to shift
gears.
   MOTORIZED ROLLER SKATES: Devices worn on the feet with a combination of
wheels which are motorized. This definition includes devices commonly known as
motorized in-line skates.
   MOTORIZED SCOOTER: Any device with two (2) or more wheels connected by a
platform with a steering handle or wheel which is designed for standing and
which is motorized.
   MOTORIZED SKATEBOARD: Any device with two (2) or more tandem axles and a
combination of wheels connected by a platform designed for standing which are
motorized.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR: As fully defined in the Illinois vehicle code.
   MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE: A passenger carrying vehicle which is
constructed either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional
off road operation.
   NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle that is not a commercial vehicle.
   OFF HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE: Any motorized device designed to travel primarily
off highway on two (2) wheels, having a seat or saddle for the use of the
operator upon or by which any person, persons or property may be transported or
drawn.
   PASSENGER CAR: A motor vehicle of the first division, including a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than ten
(10) persons.
   PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE: A motor vehicle used for the transportation of
passengers for hire, except those devoted exclusively to funeral purposes or to
the operation of metropolitan transit authorities or public utilities under the
laws of the state of Illinois.
   REBUILT VEHICLE: A vehicle for which a salvage certificate has been issued
and which subsequently has been put back into its original or operating
condition by a licensed rebuilder and which has met all the requirements of a
salvage vehicle inspection.
   RECONSTRUCTED VEHICLE: Every vehicle originally designed or permanently
converted and used for living quarters or for human habitation and not used as
a commercial vehicle including any house car, house trailer, camper or private
living coach.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Every camping trailer, motor home, mini-motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
      Camper: A recreational motor vehicle of the second division converted or
equipped and used for living quarters or for human habitation rather than for
the transportation of freight, goods, wares and merchandise.
      Camping Trailer: A trailer, not used commercially, constructed with
partial side walls which fold for towing and unfold to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational camping or travel use and of a size or weight not
requiring an overdimension permit when towed on a highway.
      House Car: A recreational motor vehicle of the first division converted
or equipped and used for living quarters or for human habitation rather than as
a passenger car.
      Motor Home, Mini-Motor Home Or Van Camper: A self- contained motor
vehicle, not used commercially, designed or permanently converted to provide
living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, with direct walk-
through access to the living quarters from the driver's seat.
      Private Living Coach: A recreational motor vehicle of the second division
equipped and used for living quarters, human habitation or for mobile living
rather than for the transportation of persons, and with direct access to the
living quarters from the driver's seat.
      Travel Trailer: A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide
living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use and of a size or weight
not requiring an overdimension permit when towed on a highway.
      Truck Camper: A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a
portable unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is construed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, travel or camping use.
   RESCUE SQUAD VEHICLE: A vehicle specifically designed, configured and
equipped for the performance of access and extrication from hazardous or life
endangering situations. However, if such vehicles have emergency medical
transport capability, they must be classified as rescue vehicles as defined
herein.
   RESCUE VEHICLE: Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, configured, and equipped for the performance of access
and extrication of persons from hazardous or life endangering situations as
well as for the emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE: Every vehicle used to deliver U.S. mail on a
rural mail delivery route.
   SCHOOL BUS: 1. Every motor vehicle, except as provided in paragraph 2 of
this subsection, owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for
the transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade twelve
(12) or below or in connection with a school operated by a religious
institution or a private nursery, primary, secondary or parental school,
including:
         a.   Type I School Bus: A school bus with provision for thirteen
inches (13") of seating space for each of seventeen (17) or more passengers
exclusive of the driver.
         b.   Type II School Bus: A school bus with provision for thirteen
inches (13") of seating space for each of sixteen (16) or fewer passengers
exclusive of the driver.
      2.   This definition does not include the following:
         a.   A bus operated by a public utility, municipal corporation or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when such bus is on a regularly scheduled route for the
transportation of other fare paying passengers or furnishing charter service
for the transportation of groups on field trips or other special trips in
connection with special events or for shuttle service between attendance
centers or other educational facilities.
         b.   A motor vehicle of the first division.
   SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain steered by skis or runners and supported in part by skis, belts
or cleats.
   SPECIAL MOBILE EQUIPMENT: Every vehicle not designed or used primarily for
the transportation of persons or property and only incidentally operated or
moved over a highway including, but not limited to: street sweepers, ditch
digging apparatus, well boring apparatus and road construction and maintenance
machinery such as asphalt spreaders, bituminous mixers, bucket loaders,
tractors other than truck tractors, ditchers, leveling graders, finishing
machines, motor graders, road rollers, scarifiers, earthmoving carryalls and
scrapers, power shovels and draglines and self- propelled cranes and
earthmoving equipment. The term does not include house trailers, dump trucks,
truck mounted transit mixers, cranes or shovels or other vehicles designed for
the transportation of persons or property to which machinery has been attached.
   SPECIALLY CONSTRUCTED VEHICLE: Every vehicle of a type required to be
registered hereunder that:
      1.   Has been materially altered from its original construction by the
removal, addition or substitution of essential parts; or
      2.   Was not originally constructed under a distinctive name by a
generally recognized manufacturer of vehicles.
   STREETCAR: A car, other than a railroad train, for transporting persons or
property and operated upon roads principally within the city.
   TRACTORS: Tractors shall include:
      Farm Tractor: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled, excluding
all-terrain vehicles and off highway motorcycles.
      Road Tractor: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle and load so drawn.
      Truck Tractor: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a
part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
      Pole Trailer: Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole,
or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle and ordinarily
used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as poles, pipes or
structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as beams
between the supporting connections.
      Semitrailer: Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
      Stinger Steered Semitrailer: Every semitrailer which has its kingpin on a
projection to the front of the structure of such semitrailer and is combined
with the fifth wheel of the truck tractor at a point not less than two feet
(2') to the rear of the center of the rearmost axle of such tractor.
   TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
      1.   Tow Truck: Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used
to push, tow or draw vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar, towline or
auxiliary axle or to render assistance to disabled vehicles.
   USED MOTOR VEHICLE: Every motor vehicle which has been sold, bargained,
exchanged, given away or title transferred from the person who first acquired
it from the manufacturer or importer, dealer or agent of the manufacturer or
importer and so used as to have become what is commonly known as "secondhand"
within the ordinary meaning thereof; provided, that a new motor vehicle shall
not be considered as a "used motor vehicle" until it has been placed in a bona
fide consumer use, notwithstanding the number of transfers of such motor
vehicle. The term "bona fide consumer use" means actual operation by an owner
who acquired the vehicle for use in business or for pleasure purposes and who
has been granted a certificate of title on such motor vehicle and has
registered such motor vehicle, all in accordance with the laws of the residence
of the owner. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. 1993 Code; Ord. O-03-021, 8-21-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 40/1-1 et seq.
Sec. 15.154. Weight.
The gross weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in combination,
without a load plus the weight of any load thereon. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.155. Yield Right Of Way.
When required by an official sign, means the act of granting the privilege of
the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic within the
intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left but, when the
roadway is clear, may proceed into the intersection. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
ARTICLE II
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
SECTION:
15.201. Provisions Of Chapter Refer To Vehicles Upon The Highways; Exceptions
15.202. Required Obedience To Traffic Laws
15.203. Obedience To Police Officers
15.204. Fleeing Or Attempting To Elude Police Officer
15.205. Public Officers And Employees To Obey Act; Exceptions
15.206. Traffic Laws Apply To Persons Riding Animals Or Driving Animal Drawn
Vehicles
15.207. Unauthorized Direction Of Traffic
15.208. Automated Railroad Crossing Enforcement System
Sec. 15.201. Provisions Of Chapter Refer To Vehicles Upon The Highways;
Exceptions.
The provisions of this chapter relating to the operation of vehicles refer
exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon highways except:
   A.   Where a different place is specifically referred to in a given section.
   B.   The provisions of articles IV and V of this chapter shall apply upon
highways and elsewhere throughout the city. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
   C.   In accord with a certain agreement by and between the Elizabeth Park
Condominium Association and the city, the provisions of this title refer to
vehicles upon all streets (highways) within the private property commonly known
as Elizabeth Park manor homes. (Ord. 1489, 3-2-1989)
Sec. 15.202. Required Obedience To Traffic Laws.
It is unlawful and, unless otherwise declared in this chapter with respect to
particular offenses, it is a petty offense for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this chapter. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
1985; amd. 1993 Code)
Sec. 15.203. Obedience To Police Officers.
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.204. Fleeing Or Attempting To Elude Police Officer.
   A.   Any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having been given a
visual or audible signal by a peace officer directing such driver or operator
to bring his vehicle to a stop, wilfully fails or refuses to obey such
direction, increases his speed, extinguishes his lights or otherwise flees or
attempts to elude the officer is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
   B.   The signal given by the peace officer may be by hand, voice, siren, red
or blue light; provided, the officer giving such signal shall be in police
uniform, and, if driving a vehicle, such vehicle shall display illuminated
oscillating, rotating or flashing red or blue lights which when used in
conjunction with an audible horn or siren would indicate the vehicle to be an
official police vehicle. Such requirement shall not preclude the use of amber
or white oscillating, rotating or flashing lights in conjunction with red or
blue oscillating, rotating or flashing lights as required in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/12-215.
Upon receiving notice of such conviction, the secretary of state may forthwith
suspend the driver's license of the person so convicted for a period of not
more than six (6) months. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. 1993 Code)
   C.   The offense of aggravated fleeing or attempting to elude a police
officer is committed by any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who flees or
attempts to elude a police officer, after being given a visual or audible
signal by a police officer in the manner prescribed in subsection A of this
section, and such flight or attempt to elude:
      1.   Is at a rate of speed at least twenty one (21) miles per hour over
the legal speed limit; and
      2.   Causes bodily injury to any individual or causes damage in excess of
three hundred dollars ($300.00) to private property.
Any person convicted of a violation of this subsection shall be guilty of a
class A misdemeanor, and upon notice of such a conviction, the secretary of
state shall forthwith revoke the driver's license of the person so convicted,
as provided in section 6-205 of the "Illinois motor vehicle code". Any person
convicted of a second or subsequent violation of this subsection within five
(5) years of any prior conviction of this subsection shall be guilty of a class
4 felony, and upon notice of such a conviction, the secretary of state shall
forthwith revoke the driver's license of the person convicted, as provided in
section 6-205 of the "Illinois motor vehicle code". (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.205. Public Officers And Employees To Obey Act; Exceptions.
   A.   The provisions of this chapter applicable to the drivers of vehicles
upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated
by the United States, state of Illinois or any county, city, town, district or
any other political subdivision of the state of Illinois, except as provided in
this section and subject to such specific exceptions as set forth in this
chapter with reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   B.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law
or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may exercise
the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the conditions herein
stated.
   C.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      3.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger life
or property;
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   D.   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle, other
than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion or visual signals meeting the
requirements of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-215.
   E.   Police vehicles conducting traffic enforcement, surveillance
operations, or other activities authorized by the Chief of Police may park or
proceed on pathways, trails, or other authorized locations during these
enforcement activities as long as these activities are conducted in a safe
manner.
   F.   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
   G.   The provisions of this chapter, with the exception of articles IV and V
of this chapter, do not apply to persons, motor vehicles and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of the highway but apply to
such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
1985; amd. 1993 Code; Ord. O-21-016, 7-15-2021)
Sec. 15.206. Traffic Laws Apply To Persons Riding Animals Or Driving Animal
Drawn Vehicles.
Every person riding an animal or driving an animal drawn vehicle upon a roadway
shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties
applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this chapter, except those provisions
of this chapter which by their very nature can have no application. (Ord. 1312,
9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.207. Unauthorized Direction Of Traffic.
Except in emergencies, it shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by
law to direct or attempt to direct traffic. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.208. Automated Railroad Crossing Enforcement System.
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, an "automated railroad
grade crossing enforcement system" is a system operated by a law enforcement
agency that records a driver's response to automatic, electrical or mechanical
signal devices and crossing gates. The system shall be designed to obtain a
clear photograph or other recorded image of the vehicle, vehicle operator and
the vehicle registration plate of a vehicle in violation of section 11-1201 or
11-1425 of the Illinois vehicle code. The photograph or other recorded image
shall also display the time, date and location of the violation.
   B.   Citations: For each violation of section 11-1201 or 11-1425 of the
Illinois vehicle code recorded by an automatic railroad grade crossing system,
the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction shall issue a written
uniform traffic citation of the violation to the registered owner of the
vehicle as the alleged violator. The uniform traffic citation shall be
delivered to the registered owner of the vehicle, by mail, within thirty (30)
days of the violation. The uniform traffic citation shall include the name and
address of vehicle owner, the vehicle registration number, the offense charged,
the time, date and location of the violation, the first available court date,
and that the basis of the citation is the photograph or other recorded image
from the automated railroad grade crossing enforcement system.
   C.   Notice Of Citation: The uniform traffic citation issued to the
registered owner of the vehicle shall be accompanied by a written notice, the
contents of which are set forth in subsection C1 of this section, explaining
how the registered owner of the vehicle can elect to proceed by either paying
the fine or challenging the issuance of the uniform traffic citation.
      1.   The written notice explaining the alleged violator's rights and
obligations must include the following text:
         You have been served with the accompanying Uniform Traffic Citation
and cited with having violated Section 11-1201 or 11-1425 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code. You can elect to proceed by:
            1. Paying the fine; or
            2. Challenging the issuance of the Uniform Traffic Citation in
court; or
            3. If you were not the operator of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged offense, notifying in writing the local law enforcement agency that
issued the Uniform Traffic Citation of the number of the Uniform Traffic
Citation received and the name and address of the person operating the vehicle
at the time of the alleged offense. If you fail to so notify in writing the
local law enforcement agency of the name and address of the operator of the
vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, you may be presumed to have been
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense.
      2.   If the registered owner of the vehicle was not the operator of the
vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, and if the registered owner
notifies the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction of the name and
address of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, the
local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction shall then issue a written
uniform traffic citation to the person alleged by the registered owner to have
been the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense. If the
registered owner fails to notify in writing the local law enforcement agency
having jurisdiction of the name and address of the operator of the vehicle at
the time of the alleged offense, the registered owner may be presumed to have
been the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense.
   D.   Evidence:
      1.   A certificate alleging that a violation of section 11-1201 or 11-
1425 of the Illinois vehicle code occurred, sworn to or affirmed by a duly
authorized agency, based on inspection of recorded images produced by an
automated railroad crossing enforcement system, are evidence of the facts
contained in the certificate and are admissible in any proceeding alleging a
violation under this section.
      2.   Photographs or recorded images made by an automatic railroad grade
crossing enforcement system are confidential and shall be made available only
to the alleged violator and governmental and law enforcement agencies for
purposes of adjudicating a violation of section 11-1201 or 11-1425 of the
Illinois vehicle code. The photographs may also be made available to
governmental agencies for the purpose of a safety analysis of the crossing
where the automatic railroad grade crossing enforcement system is installed.
However, any photograph or other recorded image evidencing a violation of
section 11-1201 or 11-1425 of the Illinois vehicle code shall be admissible in
any proceeding resulting from the issuance of the uniform traffic citation when
there is reasonable and sufficient proof of the accuracy of the camera or
electronic instrument recording the image. There is a rebuttable presumption
that the photograph or recorded image is accurate if the camera or electronic
recording instrument was in good working order at the beginning and the end of
the day of the alleged offense.
   E.   Signage: Rail crossings equipped with an automatic railroad grade
crossing enforcement system shall be posted with a sign visible to approaching
traffic stating that the railroad grade crossing is being monitored, that
citations will be issued, and the amount of the fine for violation.
   F.   Recording Of Speed Prohibited: A municipality, may not use an automated
railroad crossing enforcement system to provide recorded images of a motor
vehicle for the purpose of recording its speed. The regulation of the use of
automated railroad crossing enforcement systems to record vehicle speeds is an
exclusive power and function of the state.
   G.   Penalty:
      1.   A violation of this section is a petty offense for which a minimum
fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be imposed for a first
violation, and a minimum fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be
imposed for a second or subsequent violation. The court may impose twenty five
(25) hours of community service in place of the two hundred fifty dollar
($250.00) fine for the first violation. (Ord. O-09-026, 10-15-2009)
ARTICLE III
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
SECTION:
15.301. Temporary Controls
15.302. Unlawful Possession Of Highway Sign Or Marker
15.303. Interference With Official Traffic-Control Devices Or Railroad Signs Or
Signals
15.304. Unlawful Use Or Damage To Highways, Appurtenances And Structures
15.305. Obedience To Traffic-Control Devices
15.306. Traffic-Control Signal Legend
15.307. Pedestrian-Control Signals
15.308. Lane-Control Signals
15.309. Flashing Signals
15.310. Display Of Unauthorized Signs, Signals, Markings Or Advertising Signs
Sec. 15.301. Temporary Controls.
In cases of emergency, or when public health, safety or convenience require,
the City Manager may establish temporary traffic controls, including the
designation of one-way streets and the regulation or restriction of parking on
any street or alley; provided, that such controls shall not become effective
until the posting of proper signs which must remain conspicuously displayed
while said regulation is in effect. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.302. Unlawful Possession Of Highway Sign Or Marker.
The Department of Transportation and the City, with reference to traffic-
control signs, signals or markers owned by the Department of Transportation or
the City, are authorized to indicate the ownership of the signs, signals or
markers on the back of such devices in letters not less than three-eighths inch
(3/8") or more than three-fourths inch (3/4") in height, by use of a metal
stamp, etching or other permanent means and, except for employees of the
Department of Transportation or the City, police officers, contractors and
their employees engaged in a highway construction contract or work on the
highway approved by the Department of Transportation or the City, it is
unlawful for any person to possess such sign, signal or marker so identified.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.303. Interference With Official Traffic-Control Devices Or Railroad
Signs Or Signals.
   A.   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon or any
other part thereof.
   B.   Any person failing to comply with subsection A of this section shall,
upon conviction, be fined an amount as specified in the master fee schedule in
addition to any other penalties which may be imposed. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-
2018)
Sec. 15.304. Unlawful Use Or Damage To Highways, Appurtenances And Structures.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully injure or damage any
public highway or street or any bridge or culvert or to wilfully damage, injure
or remove any sign, signpost or structure upon or used or constructed in
connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof or for
protection or regulation of traffic thereon by any wilfully unusual, improper
or unreasonable use thereof, or by wilfully careless driving or use of any
vehicle thereon or by wilful mutilation, defacing, destruction or removal
thereof.
   B.   Any person failing to comply with subsection A of this section shall,
upon conviction, be fined an amount as specified in the master fee schedule in
addition to any other penalties which may be imposed. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-
2018)
Sec. 15.305. Obedience To Traffic-Control Devices.
   A.   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, unless at the time otherwise directed by a police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this chapter or in any applicable section of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
   C.   No provision of this chapter for which official traffic- control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no official
traffic-control devices are erected or in place. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
   D.   Whenever any official traffic-control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority and comply with the requirements of this chapter, unless the
contrary shall be established by competent evidence. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd.
1993 Code)
   E.   Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   F.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic-control signal on which
no signal light facing such vehicle is illuminated, shall stop before entering
the intersection in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a stop
sign. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.306. Traffic-Control Signal Legend.
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting different
colored lights successively one at a time or in combination, only the colors
green, red and yellow shall be used, except for special pedestrian signals
carrying a word legend. The lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of
vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   A.   Circular Green (Alone):
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn.
Vehicular traffic turning right or left shall yield the right of way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent
crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway or an
adjacent crosswalk within any marked or unmarked crosswalk unless directed
otherwise by a pedestrian signal as provided under Section
15.307 of this Chapter.
   B.   Steady Yellow:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      2.   Pedestrians facing a steady yellow signal, unless otherwise directed
by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in Section 15.307 of this Chapter,
are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway, and
no pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85; 1993 Code)
   C.   Steady Red Indication:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal alone must stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if not, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of an intersection, or if none, then before entering the intersection and
shall remain standing until an indication to proceed is shown except as
provided in paragraphs C2 and C3 of this Section.
      2.   Unless otherwise prohibited by Section
15.307, vehicular traffic on a one-way highway facing a steady red signal at an
intersection may turn right after stopping as required in paragraph C1 of this
Section but shall yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within an
adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      3.   Unless otherwise prohibited by Section
15.307, vehicular traffic on a one-way highway facing a steady red signal may,
after stopping as required by paragraph C1 of this Section, cautiously enter
the intersection and make a left turn onto an intersecting one-way highway on
which traffic travels to the left but shall yield the right of way to
pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully
using the intersection.
      4.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless a
separate "Walk" indication is shown.
   D.   Green Straight-Through Arrow (Alone):
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through,
but shall not turn right or left. Such vehicular traffic shall yield the right
of way to other vehicles and to pedestrians legally within the intersection at
the time such signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
the appropriate marked or unmarked crosswalk unless directed otherwise by a
pedestrian signal as provided in Section
15.307 of this Chapter.
   E.   Green Turn Arrow (with Circular Green, with Steady Yellow, with Steady
Red or with Green Straight-Through Arrow):
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall comply with the meaning of
the circular green, steady yellow, steady red or green straight-through arrow
indication as if it were shown alone, except that such vehicular traffic may
cautiously enter the intersection to make the movement indication by the green
turn arrow. Vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to pedestrians
lawfully within a crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
      2.   Pedestrians facing such signal shall comply with the meaning of the
circular green, steady yellow, steady red or straight- through arrow indication
as if it were shown alone, unless directed otherwise by a pedestrian signal as
provided in Section
15.307 of this Chapter.
   F.   In the event an official traffic-control flashing red signal is erected
and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
Section and Section
15.309 of this Chapter shall be applicable except as to provisions which by
their nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic
sign or a marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made or,
in the absence of such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
   G.   The motorman of any streetcar shall obey the above signals as
applicable to vehicles. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.307. Pedestrian-Control Signals.
Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words "Walk" or
"Don't Walk" or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place such signals shall indicate as follows: (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85; 1993
Code)
   A.   Walk or Walking Person Symbol: If a walking person or an upraised palm,
pedestrians facing such signals may proceed across the roadway in the direction
of the signal and shall be given the right of way by the drivers of all
vehicles.
   B.   Don't Walk or Upraised Palm Symbol: No pedestrian shall start to cross
the roadway in the direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partly
completed his crossing on the "Walk" signal or "Walking Person" symbols shall
proceed to a sidewalk or to a safety island while the "Don't Walk" signal or
upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady or flashing. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.308. Lane-Control Signals.
Whenever lane-control signals are used in conjunction with official signs, they
shall have the following meanings:
   A.   Downward-Pointing Green Arrow: A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise, he shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow normal
safe driving practices.
   B.   Red X Symbol: A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise, he
shall obey all other traffic controls and follow normal safe driving practices.
   C.   Yellow X (Steady): A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   D.   Flashing Yellow Arrow: A driver facing this indication may use the lane
only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.309. Flashing Signals.
Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in conjunction
with a traffic-control device it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic
as follows:
   A.   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   B.   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   C.   This Section does not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
Section
15.1201 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.310. Display of Unauthorized Signs, Signals, Markings or Advertising
Signs.
   A.   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or is
an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad
sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or which
hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the effectiveness
of any traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
85; 1993 Code)
   B.   No person may place or maintain nor may any public authority permit
upon any street any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial
advertising.
   C.   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is a public nuisance and
the same shall be removed without notice. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
ARTICLE IV
ACCIDENTS
SECTION:
15.401. Accidents Involving Death Or Personal Injuries
15.402. Accidents Involving Damage To Vehicle
15.403. Duty To Give Information And Render Aid
15.404. Duty Upon Damaging Unattended Vehicle Or Other Property
15.405. Striking Unattended Vehicles, Fixtures Or Other Property Prohibited
15.406. Duty To Report Accident
15.407. Immediate Notice Of Accident
15.408. Police To Report
15.409. False Reports
15.410. When Driver Fails To Report
15.411. Accident Report Forms
15.412. Accident Reports Confidential
15.413. Furnishing Copies - Fees
Sec. 15.401. Accidents Involving Death Or Personal Injuries.
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop such
vehicle at the scene of such motor vehicle accident, or as close thereto as
possible, and shall then forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain
at, the scene of the accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of
section
15.403 of this article. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
   B.   Any person who has failed to stop or to comply with said requirements
shall, within three (3) hours after such motor vehicle accident or, if
hospitalized and incapacitated from reporting at any time during such period,
within forty eight (48) hours after being discharged from the hospital, report
the place of accident, the date, the approximate time, his name, address, the
registration number of the vehicle driven and the names of all other occupants,
if any, of such vehicle at the Wood Dale Police Station. No report made as
required under this subsection shall be used, directly or indirectly, as a
basis for the prosecution of any violation of subsection A of this section. For
purposes of this section, "personal injury" shall mean any injury requiring
immediate professional treatment in a medical facility or doctor's office.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. 1993 Code)
   C.   Any person failing to comply with subsection A of this section shall,
upon conviction, be fined an amount as specified in the master fee schedule.
   D.   Any person failing to comply with subsection B of this section shall,
upon conviction, be fined an amount as specified in the master fee schedule.
(Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 15.402. Accident Involving Damage To Vehicle.
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person
shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such motor vehicle accident
or as close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to and in every
event shall remain at the scene of such accident until he has fulfilled the
requirements of section
15.403 of this article. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
   B.   Any person failing to comply with this section shall, upon conviction,
be fined an amount as specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-
19-2018)
Sec. 15.403. Duty To Give Information And Render Aid.
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is
driven or attended by any person shall give his name, address, the registration
number and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating and shall, upon request
and if available, exhibit his driver's license to the person struck or the
driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with, and shall
render to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including
the carrying or the making of arrangements for the carrying of such person to a
physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is
apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by
the injured person.
   B.   If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this section
is in condition to receive and understand such information and no police
officer is present, such driver, after rendering reasonable assistance, shall
forthwith report such accident at the Wood Dale police station, disclosing the
information required by this section. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
   C.   Any person failing to comply with this section shall, upon conviction,
be fined an amount as specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-
19-2018)
Sec. 15.404. Duty Upon Damaging Unattended Vehicle Or Other Property.
   A.   The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in a motor
vehicle accident with any vehicle which is unattended, or other property,
resulting in any damage to such other vehicle or property shall immediately
stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of
such vehicle or other property of his name, address, registration number and
the owner of the vehicle the driver was operating, or shall attach securely in
a conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other property struck a written
notice giving name, address, registration number and the owner of the vehicle
the driver was operating and shall, without unnecessary delay, notify the
Police Department, City Hall, City of Wood Dale, and shall make a written
report of such accident when and as required in section 15.406 of this article.
Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. 1993 Code)
   B.   Any person failing to comply with subsection A of this section shall,
upon conviction, be fined an amount as specified in the master fee schedule.
(Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 15.405. Striking Unattended Vehicles, Fixtures Or Other Property
Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to strike unattended
vehicles, fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a street.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.406. Duty To Report Accident.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
within this City resulting in injury to or death of any person, or in which
damage to the property of any one person, including himself, in excess of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) is sustained shall, as soon as possible but not
later than ten (10) days after such accident, forward a written report of such
accident to the Police Department of the City.
   B.   Whenever a school bus is involved in an accident in this City caused by
a collision, a sudden stop or otherwise, resulting in any property damage,
personal injury or death, and whenever an accident occurs within fifty feet
(50') of a school bus in this City resulting in personal injury to or the death
of any person while awaiting or preparing to board the bus or immediately after
exiting the bus, the driver shall, as soon as possible, but not later than ten
(10) days after the accident, forward a written report to the Police Department
of the City. If a report is also required under subsection A of this section,
that report and the report required by this subsection shall be submitted on a
single form.
   C.   The department may require any driver, occupant or owner of a vehicle
involved in an accident, of which report must be made as provided in this
section or section
15.410 of this article, to file supplemental reports whenever the original
report is insufficient in the opinion of the Secretary of State or the
department and may require witnesses of the accident to submit written reports
to the department. The report may include photographs, charts, sketches and
graphs.
   D.   Should the department learn through other reports of accidents required
by law of the occurrence of an accident reportable under this article and the
driver, owner, or witness has not reported as required under subsection A, B or
C of this section or section
15.410 of this article, within the time specified, such person is not relieved
of the responsibility, and the department shall notify such person by first
class mail directed to his last known address of his legal obligation. However,
such notification is not a condition precedent to impose the penalty for
failure to report as provided in subsection E of this section.
   E.   The Secretary of State shall suspend the driver's license or any
nonresident's driving privileges of any person who fails or neglects to make
report of a traffic accident as herein required or as required by any other law
of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.407. Immediate Notice Of Accident.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
described in section
15.406 of this article, if no police officer is present, shall, immediately and
by the fastest available means of communication, submit notice of the accident
at the Police Department, City Hall, City of Wood Dale.
   B.   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
immediate notice of an accident as required in subsection A of this section and
there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable
of doing so, that occupant must give notice as required in subsection A of this
section. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.408. Police To Report.
   A.   Every City law enforcement officer who investigates a vehicle accident
for which a report is required by this article or who prepares a written report
as a result of an investigation either at the time and scene of such motor
vehicle accident or thereafter by interviewing participants or witnesses of
such accident shall forward a written report of such accident to the department
on forms provided by the department under section
15.411 of this article within ten (10) days after investigation of the
accident, or within such other time as is prescribed by the department. Such
written reports required to be forwarded by City law enforcement officers and
the information contained therein are privileged as to the department but shall
not be held confidential by the reporting City law enforcement officer or his
agency. However, the department may require a supplemental report from the
reporting City law enforcement officer, and such supplemental report shall be
for the privileged use of the department and shall be held confidential.
   B.   The department, at its discretion, may require a supplemental written
report from the reporting law enforcement officer on a form supplied by the
department to be submitted directly to the department. Such supplemental report
may be used only for accident studies and statistical or analytical purposes,
and shall be for the privileged use of the department and shall be held
confidential.
   C.   The department, at its discretion, may also provide for in- depth
investigation of an accident by individuals or special investigation groups
including, but not limited to, police officers, photographers, engineers,
doctors, mechanics and, as a result of the investigation, may require the
submission of written reports, photographs, charts, sketches, graphs or a
combination of all. Such individual written reports, photographs, charts,
sketches or graphs may be used only for accident studies and statistical or
analytical purposes, shall be for the privileged use of the department and held
confidential and shall not be used in any trial, civil or criminal. (Ord. 1312,
9-5-1985; amd. 1993 Code)
Sec. 15.409. False Reports.
Any person who provides information in an oral or written report required by
this article with knowledge or reason to believe that such information is false
shall, upon conviction, be fined an amount as specified in the master fee
schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 15.410. When Driver Fails To Report.
Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making a required
accident report, and if there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time
of the motor vehicle accident capable of making a report, such occupant shall
make or cause to be made such report. If said driver fails for any reason to
make such report, the owner of the vehicle involved in such accident shall, as
soon as practicable, make said report to the department. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.411. Accident Report Forms.
   A.   The department must prepare and, upon request, supply to every City law
enforcement officer forms for written accident reports as required hereunder,
suitable with respect to the persons required to make such reports and the
purposes to be served. The written reports must call for sufficiently detailed
information to disclose with reference to a vehicle accident the cause,
conditions then existing and the persons and vehicles involved or any other
data concerning such accident that may be required for a complete analysis of
all related circumstances and events leading to the accident or subsequent to
the occurrence.
   B.   Every accident report required to be made in writing must be made on an
appropriate form approved or provided by the department and must contain all
the information required therein unless that information is not available.
   C.   Should special accident studies be required by the department, the
department may provide the supplemental forms for the special studies. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.412. Accident Reports Confidential.
   A.   All required written motor vehicle accident reports and supplemental
reports shall be without prejudice to the individual so reporting and shall be
for the confidential use of the department; except, that the department may
disclose the identity of a person involved in an accident when such identity is
not otherwise known or when such person denies his presence at such accident,
and the department shall disclose the identity of the insurance carrier, if
any, upon demand.
   B.   The department may furnish copies of its accident reports to Federal
and State agencies that are engaged in highway safety research and studies.
Reports furnished to any agency other than the Secretary of State or the
Illinois Commerce Commission may be used only for statistical or analytical
purposes and shall be held confidential by that agency.
   C.   No such written report shall be used as evidence in any trial, civil or
criminal, arising out of a motor vehicle accident; except, that the department
shall furnish, upon demand of any person who has, or claims to have, made such
a written report, or upon demand of any court, a certificate showing that a
specified accident report has or has not been made to the department solely to
prove a compliance or a failure to comply with the requirement that such
written report be made to the department. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.413. Furnishing Copies - Fees.
The department may furnish copies of any traffic accident report that has been
investigated by the Wood Dale police and shall be paid a fee as specified in
the master fee schedule for each such report of three (3) single sided pages or
less and an amount as specified in the master fee schedule for each additional
single sided page; or in the case of an accident which was investigated by an
accident reconstruction officer or accident reconstruction team, a fee as
specified in the master fee schedule shall be paid. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE V
DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED, TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, AND RECKLESS DRIVING
SECTION:
15.501. Driving While Under The Influence Of Alcohol, Other Drug Or Drugs,
Intoxicating Compound Or Compounds Or Any Combination Thereof
15.502. Transportation Or Possession Of Alcoholic Liquor In A Motor Vehicle
15.503. Reckless Driving
15.504. Drag Racing
15.505. Suspension Of Driver's License - Implied Consent
15.506. Chemical And Other Tests
15.507. Driver Involvement In Personal Injury Or Fatal Motor Vehicle Accident -
Chemical Test
15.508. Preliminary Breath Screening Test
Sec. 15.501. Driving While Under The Influence Of Alcohol, Other Drug Or Drugs,
Intoxicating Compound Or Compounds Or Any Combination Thereof.
   A.   Prohibited: A person shall not drive or be in actual physical control
of any vehicle within this City while:
      1.   The alcohol concentration in the person's blood or breath is 0.08 or
more based on the definition of blood and breath units in section WD-11-501.2;
      2.   Under the influence of alcohol;
      3.   Under the influence of any intoxicating compound or combination of
intoxicating compounds to a degree that renders the person incapable of driving
safely;
      4.   Under the influence of any other drug or combination of drugs to a
degree that renders the person incapable of safely driving;
      5.   Under the combined influence of alcohol, other drug or drugs, or
intoxicating compound or compounds to a degree that renders the person
incapable of safely driving; or
      6.   There is any amount of a drug, substance, or compound in the
person's breath, blood, or urine resulting from the unlawful use or consumption
of cannabis listed in the Cannabis Control Act, a controlled substance listed
in the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, an intoxicating compound listed in
the use of Intoxicating Compounds Act, or methamphetamine as listed in the
Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act.
   B.   Defense: The fact that any person charged with violating this section
is or has been legally entitled to use alcohol, other drug or drugs, or
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, shall not
constitute a defense against any charge of violating this section.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any person convicted
of violating subsection A of this section is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
      2.   A person who violates subsection A of this section or a similar
provision a second time shall be sentenced to a mandatory minimum term of
either five (5) days of imprisonment or two hundred forty (240) hours of
community service in addition to any other criminal or administrative sanction.
(Ord. O-09-009, 5-2-2009)
      3.   A person who violates subsection A of this section is subject to six
(6) months of imprisonment, an additional mandatory minimum fine as specified
in the master fee schedule and twenty five (25) days of community service in a
program benefiting children if the person was transporting a person under the
age of sixteen (16) at the time of the violation. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
      4.   A person who violates subsection A of this section a first time, if
the alcohol concentration in his or her blood, breath, or urine was 0.16 or
more based on the definition of blood, breath, or urine units in section WD-11-
501.2, shall be subject, in addition to any other penalty that may be imposed,
to a mandatory minimum of one hundred (100) hours of community service and a
mandatory minimum fine as specified in the master fee schedule.
      5.   A person who violates subsection A of this section a second time, if
at the time of the second violation the alcohol concentration in his or her
blood, breath, or urine was 0.16 or more based on the definition of blood,
breath, or urine units in section WD-11-501.2, shall be subject, in addition to
any other penalty that may be imposed, to a mandatory minimum of two (2) days
of imprisonment and a mandatory minimum fine as specified in the master fee
schedule. (Ord. O-09-009, 5-2-2009; amd. Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 15.502. Transportation Or Possession Of Alcoholic Liquor In A Motor
Vehicle.
   A.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, no driver shall
transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the passenger
area of any motor vehicle upon a highway in the City except in the original
container and with the seal unbroken. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. 1993 Code)
   B.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, no passenger may
carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within any passenger area of any
motor vehicle upon a highway in the City except in the original container and
with the seal unbroken.
   C.   This section shall not apply to the passengers on a chartered bus when
it is being used for purposes for which chartered buses are ordinarily used or
on a motor home or mini-motor home as defined in section 15.153 of this
chapter. However, the driver of any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming
or having any alcoholic liquor in or about the driver's area. Any evidence of
alcoholic consumption by the driver shall be prima facie evidence of such
driver's failure to obey this section.
   D.   The exemption applicable to chartered buses under subsection C of this
section does not apply to any chartered bus being used for school purposes.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.503. Reckless Driving.
   A.   Any person who drives any vehicle with a wilful or wanton disregard for
the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving.
   B.   Every person convicted of reckless driving shall be punished, upon
conviction, by a fine as specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024,
7-19-2018)
Sec. 15.504. Drag Racing.
Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, is convicted of being a
participant in drag racing shall be punished, upon conviction, by a fine as
specified in the master fee schedule, and the driver's license of such person
shall be revoked. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 15.505. Suspension Of Driver's License - Implied Consent.
   A.   Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle upon the public highways of this City shall be deemed to have given
consent, subject to the provisions of section
15.506 of this article, to a chemical test or tests of blood, breath or urine
for the purpose of determining the alcohol, other drug, or combination thereof,
content of such person's blood if arrested, as evidenced by the issuance of a
uniform traffic ticket, for any offense as defined in section
15.501 of this article. The test or tests shall be administered at the
direction of the arresting officer. The Chief of Police shall designate which
of the aforesaid tests shall be administered. A urine test may be administered
even after a blood or breath test or both has been administered.
   B.   Any person who is dead, unconscious or who is otherwise in a condition
rendering such person incapable of refusal shall be deemed not to have
withdrawn the consent provided by subsection A of this section, and the test or
tests may be administered, subject to the provisions of section
15.506 of this article.
   C.   A person requested to submit to a test as provided above shall be
warned by the law enforcement officer requesting the test that a refusal to
submit to the test will result in the statutory summary suspension of such
person's privilege to operate a motor vehicle and said person shall not be
eligible for restoration of the privilege until the expiration of:
      1.   Six (6) months from the effective date of the statutory summary
suspension for a refusal or failure to complete a test or tests to determine
the alcohol or drug concentration, pursuant to this section; or (1993 Code)
      2.   Three (3) months from the effective date of the statutory summary
suspension imposed following the person's submission to a chemical test which
disclosed an alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more, or any amount of a drug,
substance or compound in such person's blood or urine resulting from the
unlawful use or consumption of cannabis listed in the Cannabis Control Act 1
or a controlled substance listed in the Illinois Controlled Substance Act 2 ,
pursuant to this section; or (1993 Code; amd. Ord. O-09-026, 10-15-2009)
      3.   Two (2) years from the effective date of the statutory summary
suspension for any person other than a first offender who refuses or fails to
complete a test or tests to determine the alcohol or drug concentration
pursuant to this section; or (1993 Code)
      4.   One year from the effective date of the summary suspension imposed
for any person other than a first offender following submission to a chemical
test which disclosed an alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more pursuant to this
section.
The person shall also be warned by the law enforcement officer that if the
person submits to the test or tests provided in subsection A of this section
and the alcohol concentration in such person's blood or breath is 0.08 or
greater, or any amount of a drug, substance or compound resulting from the
unlawful use or consumption of cannabis, as covered by the Cannabis Control Act
as now or hereafter amended 3 , or a controlled substance listed in the
Illinois Controlled Substance Act, as now or hereafter amended 4 , is detected
in such person's blood or urine, a statutory summary suspension of such
person's privilege to operate a motor vehicle, as provided in this section,
will be imposed.
   D.   If the person refuses testing or submits to a test which discloses an
alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more, or any amount of a drug, substance or
compound in such person's blood or urine resulting from the unlawful use or
consumption of cannabis listed in the Cannabis Control Act 5  or a controlled
substance listed in the Illinois Controlled Substances Act 6 , the law
enforcement officer shall immediately submit a sworn report to the Circuit
Court of DuPage County and the Secretary of State certifying that the test or
tests was or were requested pursuant to subsection A of this section and the
person refused to submit to a test or tests or submitted to testing which
disclosed an alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more. (1993 Code; amd. Ord. O-09-
026, 10-15-2009)
   E.   Upon receipt of the sworn report of a law enforcement officer submitted
under subsection D of this section, the Secretary of State shall enter the
statutory summary suspension for the periods specified in subsection C of this
section and effective as provided in subsection G of this section.
If the person is a first offender, as defined in section 11-500 of the
"Illinois Motor Vehicle Code" and is not convicted of a violation of section
15.501 of this article, then reports received by the Secretary of State under
this section shall, except during the actual time the statutory summary
suspension is in effect, be privileged information and for use only by the
courts, police officers, prosecuting authorities or the Secretary of State.
(1993 Code)
   F.   The law enforcement officer submitting the sworn report under
subsection D of this section shall serve immediate notice of the statutory
summary suspension on the person, and such suspension shall be effective as
provided in subsection G of this section. In cases where the blood alcohol
concentration of 0.08 or greater or any amount of a drug, substance or compound
resulting from the unlawful use or consumption of cannabis as covered by the
cannabis control act, as now or hereafter amended 7 , or a controlled substance
listed in the Illinois controlled substance act, as now or hereafter amended 8
, is established by a subsequent analysis of blood or urine collected at the
time of arrest, the arresting officer shall give notice as provided in this
section or by deposit in the United States mail of such notice in an envelope
with postage prepaid and addressed to such person at his address as shown on
the uniform traffic ticket and the statutory summary suspension shall begin as
provided in subsection G of this section. The officer shall confiscate any
Illinois driver's license or permit on the person at the time of arrest. If the
person has a valid driver's license or permit, the officer shall issue the
person a receipt, in a form prescribed by the secretary of state, which will
allow that person to drive during the periods provided for in subsection G of
this section. The officer shall immediately forward the driver's license or
permit to the circuit court of DuPage County with the sworn report provided for
in subsection D of this section. (1993 Code; amd. Ord. O-09-026, 10-15-2009)
   G.   The statutory summary suspension referred to in this section shall take
effect on the forty sixth day following the date the notice of the statutory
summary suspension was given to the person.
   H.   The following procedure shall apply whenever a person is arrested for
any offense as defined in section
15.501 of this article: Upon receipt of the sworn report from the law
enforcement officer, the secretary of state shall confirm the statutory summary
suspension by mailing a notice of the effective date of such suspension to the
person and the DuPage County circuit court. However, should the sworn report be
defective by not containing sufficient information or be completed in error,
the confirmation of the statutory summary suspension shall not be mailed to the
person or entered to the record; instead, the sworn report shall be forwarded
to the DuPage County circuit court with a copy returned to the issuing agency
identifying any such defect. (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
2 2. 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.
3 3. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
4 4. 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.
5 1. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
6 2. 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.
7 3. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
8 4. 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.
Sec. 15.506. Chemical And Other Tests.
   A.   Upon the trial of any civil or criminal action or proceeding arising
out of an arrest for an offense as defined in section
15.501 of this article, evidence of the concentration of alcohol, other drug or
combination thereof in a person's blood or breath at time alleged, as
determined by analysis of the person's blood, urine, breath or other bodily
substance, shall be admissible. Where such test is made, the following
provisions shall apply:
      1.   Chemical analyses of the person's blood, urine, breath or other
bodily substance to be considered valid under the provisions of this section
shall have been performed according to the standards promulgated by the
department of public health in consultation with the Illinois department of law
enforcement by an individual processing a valid permit issued by that
department for this purpose.
      2.   When a person shall submit to a blood test at the request of a law
enforcement officer under the provisions of section
15.505 of this article, only a physician authorized to practice medicine, a
registered nurse or other qualified person approved by the Illinois department
of public health may withdraw blood for the purpose of determining the alcohol,
drug or alcohol and drug content therein. This limitation shall not apply to
the taking of breath or urine specimens.
      3.   The person tested may have a physician or a qualified technician,
chemist, registered nurse or other qualified person of their own choosing
administer a chemical test or tests in addition to any administered at the
direction of a law enforcement officer. The failure or inability to obtain an
additional test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence
relating to the test or tests taken at the direction of the law enforcement
officer.
      4.   Upon the request of the person who shall submit to a chemical test
or tests at the request of a law enforcement officer, full information
concerning the test or tests shall be made available to the person or such
person's attorney.
      5.   Alcohol concentration shall mean either grams of alcohol per one
hundred milliliters (100 ml) of blood or grams of alcohol per two hundred ten
liters (210 l) of breath.
   B.   Upon the trial of any civil or criminal action or proceeding arising
out of acts alleged to have been committed by any person while driving or in
actual physical control of a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, the
concentration of alcohol in the person's blood or breath at the time alleged as
shown by analysis of the person's blood, urine, breath or other bodily
substance shall give rise to the following presumptions:
      1.   If there was at the time an alcohol concentration of five-hundredths
(0.05) or less, it shall be presumed that the person was not under the
influence of alcohol. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
      2.   If there was at the time an alcohol concentration in excess of five-
hundredths (0.05) but less than 0.08, such facts shall not give rise to any
presumption that the person was or was not under the influence of alcohol, but
such fact may be considered with other competent evidence in determining
whether the person was under the influence of alcohol.
      3.   If there was at that time an alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more,
it shall be presumed that the person was under the influence of alcohol. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-1985; amd. Ord. O-09-026, 10-15-2009)
      4.   The foregoing provisions of this section shall not be construed as
limiting the introduction of any other relevant evidence bearing upon the
question whether the person was under the influence of alcohol.
   C.   If a person under arrest refuses to submit to a chemical test under the
provisions of section
15.505 of this article, evidence of refusal shall be admissible in any civil or
criminal action or proceeding arising out of acts alleged to have been
committed while the person under the influence of alcohol or other drugs or
combination of both was driving or in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.507. Driver Involvement In Personal Injury Or Fatal Motor Vehicle
Accident - Chemical Test.
   A.   Any person who drives or is in actual control of a motor vehicle upon
the public highways of the city shall be deemed to have given consent to a
breath test using a portable device as approved by the department of public
health or to a chemical test or tests of blood, breath or urine for the purpose
of determining the alcohol or other drug content of such person's blood if
there is probable cause to believe that such person was the driver at fault, in
whole or in part, for a motor vehicle accident which resulted in the death or
personal injury of any person. Compliance with this section does not relieve
such person from the requirements of section
15.506 of this article.
   B.   Any person who is dead, unconscious or who is otherwise in a condition
rendering such person incapable of refusal shall be deemed not to have
withdrawn the consent provision by subsection A of this section. In addition,
if a driver of a vehicle is receiving medical treatment as a result of a motor
vehicle accident, any physician licensed to practice medicine, registered nurse
or a phlebotomist acting under the direction of a licensed physician shall
withdraw blood for testing purposes to ascertain the presence of alcohol or
other drugs, upon the specific request of a law enforcement officer. However,
no such testing shall be performed until, in the opinion of the medical
personnel on scene, the withdrawal can be made without interfering with or
endangering the well being of the patient. (1993 Code)
   C.   A person requested to submit to a test as provided above shall be
warned by the law enforcement officer requesting the test that a refusal to
submit to the test, or submission to the test resulting in an alcohol
concentration of 0.08 or more may result in the suspension of such person's
privilege to operate a motor vehicle.
   D.   If the person refuses testing or submits to a test which discloses an
alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more, the law enforcement officer shall
immediately submit a sworn report to the secretary of state on a form
prescribed by the secretary of state, certifying that the test or tests were
requested pursuant to subsection A of this section and the person refused to
submit to a test or tests or submitted to testing which disclosed an alcohol
concentration of 0.08 or more. (1993 Code; amd. Ord. O-09-026, 10-15-2009)
   E.   The results of any test or tests administered pursuant to this section,
other than a test conducted with a portable device, may be used in any civil or
criminal action. Upon the trial of any civil or criminal action or proceeding
arising out of acts alleged to have been committed by any person while driving
or in actual physical control of a vehicle while under the influence of
alcohol, the concentration of alcohol in the person's blood or breath at the
time alleged as shown by analysis of the person's blood, urine, breath or other
bodily substances shall give rise to the following presumptions:
      1.   If there was at the time an alcohol concentration of five-
hundredths (0.05) or less, it shall be presumed that the person was not under
the influence of alcohol. (1993 Code)
      2.   If there was at that time an alcohol concentration in excess of
five-hundredths (0.05) but less than 0.08, such facts shall not give rise to
any presumption that the person was or was not under the influence of alcohol,
but such fact may be considered with other competent evidence in determining
whether the person was under the influence of alcohol.
      3.   If there was at the time an alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more,
it shall be presumed that the person was under the influence of alcohol. (1993
Code; amd. Ord. O-09-026, 10-15-2009)
      4.   The foregoing provisions of this section shall not be construed as
limiting the introduction of any other relevant evidence bearing upon the
question whether the person was under the influence of alcohol.
   F.   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test under the provisions
of this section, evidence of refusal shall be admissible in any civil or
criminal action or proceeding arising out of acts alleged to have been
committed while the person was driving or in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle.
   G.   For purposes of this section, a personal injury shall include any
injury that requires immediate professional attention in either a doctor's
office or a medical facility. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.508. Preliminary Breath Screening Test.
If a law enforcement officer has probable cause to believe that a person is
violating or has violated section
15.501 of this article, the officer, prior to an arrest, may request the person
to provide a sample of his or her breath for a preliminary breath screening
test using a portable device approved by the department of public health. The
results of this preliminary breath screening test may be used by the law
enforcement officer for the purpose of assisting with the determination of
whether to require a chemical test as authorized under sections
15.505 and
15.506 of this article and the appropriate type of test to request. Any
chemical test authorized under sections
15.505 and
15.506 of this article may be requested by the officer regardless of the result
of the preliminary breath screening test, if probable cause for an arrest
exists. The result of a preliminary breath screening test may be used by the
defendant as evidence in any administrative or court proceeding involving a
violation of section
15.501 or
15.505 of this article. (1993 Code)
ARTICLE VI
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
15.601. General Speed Restrictions
15.602. Prima Facie Evidence of Violation
15.603. Motor Vehicles of the Second Division
15.604. Electronic Speed-Detecting Devices
15.605. Special Speed Limit While Passing Schools
15.606. Maximum Attainable Speed
15.607. Emergency Vehicles
15.608. Special Speed Limitation on Elevated Structures
15.609. Violations - Charges, Effect on Civil Action
15.610. Minimum Speed Regulations
Sec. 15.601. General Speed Restrictions.
   A.   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of this City at a speed which
is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic conditions and
the use of the highway or endangers the safety of any person or property. The
fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum speed
limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway or when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased
as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
   B.   No person may drive a vehicle upon any highway in this City at a speed
which is greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit established
by subsection C of this Section or by Section 15.605.
   C.   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this Chapter,
the maximum speed limit in an urban district for all vehicles is:
      1.   Thirty (30) miles per hour;
      2.   Fifteen (15) miles per hour in an alley; and
      3.   The said urban speed limit may be increased as posted but not in
excess of fifty five (55) miles per hour and may be diminished as posted but
not less than twenty (20) miles per hour when such determination is passed and
approved by ordinance, signposted and included in Schedule I of the Appendix to
this Chapter. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.602. Prima Facie Evidence of Violation.
If any person shall drive a vehicle in excess of the speed limits established
in this Article, such excessive speed shall be deemed prima facie evidence that
such person is driving at a speed greater than is reasonable, proper and safe,
having regard to traffic conditions and the use of the street, or endangers the
safety of any person or property. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.603. Motor Vehicles of the Second Division.
No person shall drive any vehicle of the second division, which has a gross
weight of fifteen thousand (15,000) pounds or more, at a speed greater than
twenty five (25) miles per hour in any district in this City, notwithstanding
the provisions of any other section of this Article. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.604. Electronic Speed-Detecting Devices.
Electronic speed-detecting devices shall not be used within five hundred feet
(500') beyond any speed regulatory sign in the direction of travel; if so used
in violation hereof, evidence obtained thereby shall be inadmissible in any
prosecution for speeding. However, nothing in this Section prohibits the use of
such electronic speed-detecting devices within five hundred feet (500') of a
sign within a special school speed zone indicating such zone, conforming to the
requirements of Section
15.605 of this Article, nor shall evidence obtained thereby be inadmissible in
any prosecution for speeding, provided the use of such device shall apply only
to the enforcement of the speed limit in such special school speed zone. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.605. Special Speed Limit While Passing Schools.
   A.   On a school day when school children are present and so close thereto
that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the motorized
traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty
(20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any
public thoroughfare where children pass going to and from school. For the
purpose of this Section, a school day shall begin at seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
and shall conclude at four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
   B.   This Section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets and highways under the respective jurisdictions maintained
by the State of Illinois, township, county, park district, or City wherein the
school zone is located. Such signs shall give proper due warning that a school
zone is being approached and shall indicate the school zone and the maximum
speed limit in effect during school days when school children are present.
Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit the use of electronic speed-detecting
devices within five hundred feet (500') of signs within a special school speed
zone indicating such zone, as defined in this Section, nor shall evidence
obtained thereby be inadmissible in any prosecution for speeding, provided the
use of such device shall apply only to the enforcement of the speed limit in
such special school speed zone. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.606. Maximum Attainable Speed.
No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle on any street or highway in
the City where the minimum allowable speed on that street or highway, as
posted, is greater than the maximum attainable operating speed of the vehicle.
Maximum attainable operating speed shall be determined by the manufacturer of
the vehicle and clearly published in the manual of specifications and
operation. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.607. Emergency Vehicles.
The speed limits established by this Article or by regulation or ordinance made
pursuant to the provisions of this Article do not apply, except as otherwise
provided in Article XIV as to ambulances, to an authorized emergency vehicle in
motion when responding to an emergency call and when the driver thereof sounds
an audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle, as may be reasonably
necessary; provided, that the vehicle is equipped and has in operation at least
one lighted lamp displaying an oscillating, rotating or flashing red beam
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of five hundred
feet (500') to the front of such vehicle. An authorized emergency Fire
Department vehicle may be equipped and have in operation a triple-eight moving
white beam light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
five hundred feet (500') to the front of such vehicle in lieu of, or in
addition to, a rotating or flashing red beam in order to be exempt from the
speed limits established by this Article or by regulation or ordinance made
pursuant to the provisions of this Article. No other authorized emergency
vehicle shall use any oscillating triple-eight moving white beam light other
than Fire Department vehicles; however, this provision does not relieve the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street, nor does it protect the
driver of any such vehicle from the consequence of a reckless disregard of the
safety of others. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.608. Special Speed Limitation on Elevated Structures.
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure
when such structure is signposted as provided by ordinance.
   B.   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this Section,
proof of the determination of the maximum speed by said ordinance and the
existence of such signs is conclusive evidence of the maximum speed which can
be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.609. Violations - Charges, Effect on Civil Action.
   A.   In every charge of violation of any speed regulation in this Article,
the complaint and also the summons or notice to appear shall specify the speed
at which the defendant is alleged to have driven and the maximum speed
applicable within the district or at the location of the alleged violation.
   B.   The provisions of this Article declaring maximum speed limitations
shall not be construed to relieve the plaintiff in any civil action from the
burden of proving negligence on the part of the defendant as the proximate
cause of the accident. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.610. Minimum Speed Regulations.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or in compliance with law. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-85)
ARTICLE VII
DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY - OVERTAKING AND PASSING, ETC.
SECTION:
15.701. Driving on Right Side of Roadway - Exceptions
15.702. Passing Vehicles Proceeding in Opposite Directions
15.703. Overtaking a Vehicle on the Left
15.704. When Overtaking on the Right is Permitted
15.705. Limitations on Overtaking on the Left
15.706. Further Limitations on Driving to the Left of Center of Roadway
15.707. No Passing Zones
15.708. One-Way Roadways and Rotary Traffic Islands
15.709. Driving on Roadways Laned for Traffic
15.710. Following Too Closely
15.711. Restrictions on Use of Controlled Access Highway
15.712. Approaching, Overtaking and Passing School Bus
15.713. Driving on Shoulder
Sec. 15.701. Driving on Right Side of Roadway - Exceptions.
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movements;
      2.   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      4.   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic; and
      5.   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two (2) vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is
the wider shoulder shall give the right of way on such pavement to the other
vehicle.
   B.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right- hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   C.   Upon any roadway having four (4) or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use such
lanes, or except as permitted under subsection A2. However, this paragraph
shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making
a left turn into or from an alley, private road or driveway. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
85)
Sec. 15.702. Passing Vehicles Proceeding in Opposite Directions.
Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions, except as provided in
Section
15.701 shall pass each other to the right and upon roadways having width for
not more than one line of traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to
the other at least one-half (1/2) of the main traveled portion of the roadway
as nearly as possible. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.703. Overtaking a Vehicle on the Left.
The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding in
the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and special rules
otherwise stated in this Chapter:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
   B.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   C.   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the left
of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed lane
of traffic available to permit such passing maneuver safely. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
85)
Sec. 15.704. When Overtaking on the Right is Permitted.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle with three (3) or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      1.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      2.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction; and
      3.   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstruction and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
   B.   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of any
other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed pavement
to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less than eight
feet (8').
   C.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway.
Sec. 15.705. Limitations on Overtaking on the Left.
No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
authorized by the provisions of this Chapter and unless such left side is
clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead
to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made without interfering
with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
or any vehicle overtaken. In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to
an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable and, in the event the
passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction, before coming within two hundred feet (200') of
any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.706. Further Limitations on Driving to the Left of Center of Roadway.
   A.   No vehicle may, in overtaking and passing another vehicle, be driven to
the left side of the roadway under the following conditions:
      1.   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction.
      2.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
      3.   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within one hundred feet
(100') of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel. (1993 Code)
   B.   The limitations in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above do not apply upon a one-
way roadway nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width
for two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction nor to the driver
of a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road or driveway when
such movements can be made with safety. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.707. No Passing Zones.
   A.   The Department is authorized to determine those portions of any roadway
under its jurisdiction where overtaking and passing or driving to the left of
the roadway would be especially hazardous and may, by appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zone, and when
such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
   B.   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as set
forth in paragraph A above, no driver may at any time drive on the left side of
the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any pavement
striping designated to mark such no-passing zone throughout its length.
   C.   This Section does not apply under the conditions described in Section
15.701A2, nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an alley,
private road or driveway. The pavement striping designated to mark the no-
passing zone may be crossed from the left-hand lane for the purpose of
completing a pass that was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the
driver's direction of travel. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.708. One-Way Roadways and Rotary Traffic Islands.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon a street or roadway
designated and signposted for one-way traffic other than in the direction
designated by ordinances passed, approved and published by the City Council and
included in
Schedule III of the Appendix to this Chapter.
   B.   Upon a roadway so designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   C.   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only to
the right of such island.
   D.   Whenever any highway has been divided into two (2) or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across or within any such dividing space, barrier
or section, except through an opening in the physical barrier or dividing
section or space or at a cross-over or intersection as established by public
authority. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
   E.   The driver of a vehicle may turn left across a paved noncurbed dividing
space unless prohibited by an official traffic-control device. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.709. Driving on Roadways Laned for Traffic.
Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent
herewith, shall apply:
   A.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   B.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes and provides for
two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when such center line is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices.
   C.   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
   D.   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadways, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.710. Following Too Closely.
   A.   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another motor vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
such vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
   B.   The driver of any motor vehicle of the second division or motor vehicle
drawing another vehicle, when traveling upon a roadway outside of a business or
residence district, shall not follow within three hundred feet (300') of
another motor vehicle of the second division or motor vehicle drawing another
vehicle. The provisions of this subdivision shall not be construed to prevent
overtaking and passing nor shall the same apply upon any lane specially
designated for use by motor vehicles of the second division.
   C.   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade, whether or not towing other
vehicles, shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to funeral
processions. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.711. Restrictions on Use of Controlled Access Highway.
No person may drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access highway except
at entrances and exists established by public authority. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.712. Approaching, Overtaking and Passing School Bus.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle upon a street upon meeting or overtaking, from
either direction, any school bus which has stopped on the street for the
purpose of receiving or discharging pupils shall stop the vehicle before
reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus the visual
signals as specified in Article XV of this Chapter and the driver shall not
proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the driver of the vehicle is
signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or the visual signals are no
longer actuated.
      1.   Any person convicted of violating this subsection, upon conviction,
shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
      2.   The Illinois Secretary of State shall suspend for thirty (30) days
the driver's license of any driver convicted of violating this subsection A.
   B.   The stop signal arm required by Article XV of this Chapter shall be
extended after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of
loading or discharging pupils and shall be closed before starting out again.
The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other time.
   C.   The alternately flashing signal lamps of a four-lamp or an eight-lamp
flashing signal system required by Article XV of this Chapter shall be actuated
after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be turned off before starting out again. The red
signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time except as provided in
subsection D of this Section.
   D.   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system, or the alternately flashing red signal lamps of a four-lamp
flashing signal system required by Article XV of this Chapter shall be actuated
continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by
the bus before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils within
a business or residential district and during not less than the last two
hundred feet (200') traveled by the bus outside a business or residential
district. The amber signal lamps shall remain actuated until the bus is
stopped, and said signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time.
   E.   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway of which the roadways for
traffic moving in opposite directions are separated by a strip of ground which
is not surfaced or suitable for vehicular traffic need not stop his vehicle
upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on the opposite roadway and need
not stop his vehicle when driving upon a controlled access highway when a
school bus is stopped in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved
part of the controlled access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to
cross such controlled access highway. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.713. Driving on Shoulder.
   A.   Vehicles shall be driven on a roadway, and shall only be driven on the
shoulder for the purpose of stopping or accelerating from a stop while merging
into traffic. It shall be a violation of this Section if while merging into
traffic and while on the shoulder, the vehicle passes any other vehicle on the
roadway adjacent to it.
   B.   This Section shall not apply to any authorized emergency vehicle, or to
any service vehicle while engaged in maintenance of the highway or related
work. (1993 Code)
ARTICLE VIII
TURNING AND STARTING AND SIGNALS ON STOPPING AND TURNING
SECTION:
15.801. Required Position and Methods of Turning at Intersections
15.802. Starting Parked Vehicle
15.803. When Signal Required
15.804. Signal by Hand and Arm or Signal Device
15.805. Method of Giving Hand and Arm Signals
15.806. Prohibited Turns
15.807. Turning on Crest or Curve of Grade Prohibited
Sec. 15.801. Required Position and Method of Turning at Intersections.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   A.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left- hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
   C.   The several highway authorities in their respective jurisdictions
within the corporate limits of the City may cause official traffic-control
devices to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require
and direct that a different course from that specified in this Section be
traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when such devices are so
placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such devices.
   D.   Where a special lane for making left turns by drivers proceeding in
opposite directions has been indicated by official traffic-control devices
allowing for exceptions which are normal traffic engineering standards:
      1.   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane.
      2.   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane except when preparing for
or making left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or making a
U-turn when otherwise permitted by law. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
   E.   When a motor vehicle and a mass transit bus are traveling in the same
direction on the same multi-laned highway, street or road, the operator of the
motor vehicle overtaking such bus, which is stopped at an intersection on the
right side of the roadway to receive or discharge passengers, shall pass to the
left of the bus at a safe distance and shall not turn to the right in front of
the bus at that intersection. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.802. Starting Parked Vehicle.
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor shall any
person start any motor vehicle so as to cause its wheels to spin on the
pavement before the vehicle itself is in motion. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.803. When Signal Required.
   A.   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the roadway as required in Section
15.801, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person may so
turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter
provided.
   B.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required must be given
continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by
the vehicle before turning within a business or residence district, and such
signal must be given continuously during not less than the last two hundred
feet (200') traveled by the vehicle before turning outside a business or
residence district.
   C.   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this Chapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give such a signal.
   D.   The electric turn signal device required in Article XV of this Chapter
must be used to indicate an intention to turn, change lanes or start from a
parallel parked position but must not be flashed on one side only on a parked
or disabled vehicle or flashed as a courtesy or "Do Pass" signal to operators
of other vehicles approaching from the rear. However, such signal devices may
be flashed simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle to indicate the
presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching,
overtaking and passing. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.804. Signal by Hand and Arm or Signal Device.
Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by means
of the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device conforming to the
standards established by the statutes of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 1312, 9-
5-85)
Sec. 15.805. Method of Giving Hand and Arm Signals.
All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall indicate as
follows:
   A.   Left Turn - Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   B.   Right Turn - Hand and arm extended upward.
   C.   Stop or Decrease of Speed - Hand and arm extended downward. (Ord. 1312,
9-5-85)
Sec. 15.806. Prohibited Turns.
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle so as to make any of the following
turning movements:
   A.   To turn so as to proceed in the opposite direction where prohibited, or
otherwise, unless such movement can be made in safety and without backing into
traffic or otherwise interfering with traffic.
   B.   As prohibited by ordinance passed, approved and published by the City
Council, signposted and included in section
15.2002 of this chapter, schedule II.
   C.   To drive upon, or through, any private property, parking area, or upon
or through any public parking area or property, which is not a dedicated street
or highway, for the purposes of avoiding obedience to an official traffic-
control device, traffic-control signal or roadway configuration.
   D.   Any school board, hospital, church, condominium complex, condominium
owners' associations, commercial facility, industrial facility, shopping
center, apartment complex or other similar entity seeking to have enforcement
of City Code violations, said entity must post signs affording motorists notice
of the prohibited activity and will enter into an agreement with the City for
the enforcement of said violations, in accordance with the Illinois Vehicle
Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209. Any direct costs attributable to
said enforcement by the City shall be set forth in the agreement, which
agreement must be approved by the City Council prior to implementation. (Ord.
O-18-026A, 8-2-2018)
Sec. 15.807. Turning On Crest Or Curve Of Grade Prohibited.
No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade where such vehicle
cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from either
direction within five hundred feet (500'). (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
ARTICLE IX
RIGHT OF WAY
SECTION:
15.901. Vehicles Approaching or Entering Intersection
15.902. Vehicle Turning Left
15.903. Vehicles Entering Stop Crosswalk
15.904. Vehicle Entering Stop or Yield Intersection
15.905. Merging Traffic
15.906. Vehicle Entering Highway from Private Road or Driveway
15.907. Operation of Vehicles on Approach of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
15.908. Vehicle Approaching Highway Construction or Maintenance Area
15.909. Funeral Processions
Sec. 15.901. Vehicles Approaching or Entering Intersection.
   A.   When two (2) vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
roadways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
must yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
   B.   The right-of-way rule declared in subsection A of this Section is
modified at through-highways and otherwise as stated in this Chapter.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection of a highway from
a highway which terminates at the intersection, not otherwise regulated by this
Article or controlled by traffic- control signal or signals, shall stop, yield
and grant the privilege of immediate use of the intersection to another vehicle
which has entered the intersection from the nonterminating highway or is
approaching the intersection on the nonterminating highway in such proximity as
to constitute a hazard and, after stopping, may proceed when the driver may
safely enter the intersection without interference or collision with the
traffic using the nonterminating highway. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.902. Vehicle Turning Left.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection or
into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right of way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded may proceed
at such time as a safe interval occurs. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.903. Vehicles Entering Stop Crosswalk.
Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right of way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right of way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the right of way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.904. Vehicle Entering Stop or Yield Intersection.
   A.   Preferential right of way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs as authorized by the City Manager, signposted and included in
Schedule IV of the Appendix to this Chapter.
   B.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or official
traffic-control signals, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line,
but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield
the right of way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another
roadway or which is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time when the driver is moving across or within the
intersection, but said driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as a
safe interval occurs.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience to
such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if
required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if
none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
   D.   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or interferes
with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield right-of-way
sign, such collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie evidence of
the driver's failure to yield right of way. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.905. Merging Traffic.
Notwithstanding the right of any provision in Section
15.901 of this Chapter, at an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for
merging traffic, the driver of each vehicle on the converging roadway is
required to adjust his vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a
collision with another vehicle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.906. Vehicle Entering Highway from Private Road or Driveway.
The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley,
building, private road or driveway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway to be entered. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.907. Operation of Vehicles on Approach of Authorized Emergency
Vehicles.
   A.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this Article or a
police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual signal:
      1.   The driver of every other vehicle on the same roadway shall yield
the right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection and shall, if necessary to permit the safe passage of the
emergency vehicle, stop if possible and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer.
      2.   The motorman of every streetcar shall immediately stop if possible
and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   This Section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.908. Vehicle Approaching Highway Construction or Maintenance Area.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any authorized
vehicle or pedestrian actually engaged in work upon a highway within any
highway construction or maintenance area indicated by official traffic-control
devices.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any authorized
vehicle obviously and actually engaged in work upon a highway whenever the
vehicle engaged in construction or maintenance work displays flashing lights as
provided by statutes of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
   C.   The driver of a vehicle shall stop if signaled to do so by a flagger or
a traffic-control signal and remain in such position until signaled to proceed.
(1993 Code)
Sec. 15.909. Funeral Processions.
   A.   Funeral processions have the right of way at intersections when
vehicles comprising such processions have their headlights lighted, subject to
the following conditions and exceptions:
      1.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right
of way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an audible
or visible signal;
      2.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right
of way when directed to do so by a traffic officer; and
      3.   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic control signals, but when the leading
vehicle has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with such signal or
after stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in such procession
may proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal, and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   B.   The operator or operators of a vehicle not in the funeral procession
shall not drive his vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to
do so by a traffic officer or when such vehicle is an authorized emergency
vehicle giving audible or visual signal.
   C.   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form a
procession or convoy and have their headlights lighted for the purpose of
securing the right of way granted by this Section to funeral processions.
   D.   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicle in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   E.   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when such vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in such procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may
utilize funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers to identify the
individual vehicles in such a procession. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
ARTICLE X
PEDESTRIANS' RIGHTS AND DUTIES
SECTION:
15.1001. Pedestrian Obedience to Traffic-Control Devices and Traffic
Regulations
15.1002. Pedestrians' Right of Way at Crosswalks
15.1003. Crossing at Other Than Crosswalks
15.1004. Blind, Hearing Impaired or Physically Handicapped - Right of Way
15.1005. Pedestrians to Use Right Half of Crosswalks
15.1006. Pedestrians Soliciting Rides or Business
15.1007. Pedestrians Walking on Roadway
15.1008. Right of Way on Sidewalk
15.1009. Pedestrians Yield to Authorized Emergency Vehicles
15.1010. Pedestrians Under Influence of Alcohol or Drugs
15.1011. Bridge and Railroad Signals
Sec. 15.1001. Pedestrian Obedience to Traffic-Control Devices and Traffic
Regulations.
   A.   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to him, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   B.   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control signals
provided in Sections
15.306 and
15.307 of this Chapter, but at all other places pedestrians shall be accorded
the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this Article.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1002. Pedestrians' Right of Way at Crosswalks.
   A.   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   B.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   C.   Subsection A hereof shall not apply under the conditions stated in
Section
15.1003B of this Article.
   D.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   E.   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield right of way to pedestrians as set forth in Section
15.904 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1003. Crossing at Other Than Crosswalks.
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way to all
vehicles upon the roadway.
   C.   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   D.   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices, and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   E.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this Chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian or any
person operating a bicycle or other device propelled by human power and shall
give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise proper
precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated or
intoxicated person. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1004. Blind, Hearing Impaired or Physically Handicapped - Right of Way.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any blind,
hearing impaired or physically handicapped pedestrian carrying a clearly
visible white cane or accompanied by a support or a guide dog. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
85)
   B.   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair upon a sidewalk or
roadway shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1005. Pedestrians to Use Right Half of Crosswalks.
Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1006. Pedestrians Soliciting Rides or Business.
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride
from the driver of any vehicle.
   B.   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stand on or
in the proximity of a roadway for the purpose of soliciting employment,
business or contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
   C.   No person shall stand on a street for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle within the City except when
permitted expressly by other ordinance of this City. Solicitation on streets
within the City shall be allowed only at intersections where all traffic is
required to come to a full stop. The soliciting agency shall be:
      1.   Registered with the Attorney General of the State of Illinois as a
charitable organization as provided by "An Act to regulate solicitation and
collection of funds for charitable purposes, providing for violations thereof,
and making an appropriation therefor", approved July 26, 1963, as amended; 1
      2.   Engaged in a statewide fund raising activity; and
      3.   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
Any person engaged in the act of solicitation shall be sixteen (16) years of
age or more and shall be wearing a high visibility vest.
   D.   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked upon a street or highway. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 225 ILCS 460/1 et seq.
Sec. 15.1007. Pedestrians Walking on Roadway.
   A.   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   C.   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of a roadway and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on the
left side of the roadway.
   D.   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
Sec. 15.1008. Right of Way on Sidewalk.
The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian on a
sidewalk. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1009. Pedestrians Yield to Authorized Emergency Vehicles.
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of an
audible signal and visual signals meeting the requirements of Section
15.1516 of this Chapter, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making
use of an audible signal only, every pedestrian shall yield the right of way to
the authorized emergency vehicle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1010. Pedestrians Under Influence of Alcohol or Drugs.
A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree
which renders himself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway except on a
sidewalk. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1011. Bridge and Railroad Signals.
   A.   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while such gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
   B.   No pedestrian shall enter, remain upon or traverse over a railroad
grade crossing or pedestrian walkway crossing a railroad track when an audible
bell or clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device is operational
giving warning of the approach of a railroad train. (1993 Code)
ARTICLE XI
MOTORCYCLES
SECTION:
15.1101. Riding on Motorcycles
15.1102. Riding on Motorized Pedalcycles
15.1103. Operating Motorcycle on One Wheel
15.1104. Special Equipment for Persons Riding Motorcycles
15.1105. Required Equipment on Motorcycle
15.1106. Lights and Lamps
15.1107. Signal Lamps and Signal Devices
15.1108. All-Terrain Vehicles, Operation
15.1109. Intercom Helmets
Sec. 15.1101. Riding on Motorcycles.
   A.   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle
is designed to carry more than one person, in which event, a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two (2) persons or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the
operator.
   B.   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.
   C.   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebars higher than the
height of the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1102. Riding on Motorized Pedalcycles.
   A.   The operator of a motorized pedalcycle shall ride only astride the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto and shall not permit two (2)
persons to ride thereon at the same time unless the motorized pedalcycle is
designed to carry two (2) persons; any motorized pedalcycle designed for two
(2) persons must be equipped with a passenger seat and permanent handgrips and
footrests for use of a passenger.
   B.   Neither the operator nor any passenger on a motorized pedalcycle shall
be required to wear any special goggles, shield, helmet or glasses.
   C.   The provisions of this Chapter shall be applicable to the operation of
motorized pedalcycles, except for those provisions which by their nature can
have no application to motorized pedalcycles. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1103. Operating Motorcycle on One Wheel.
Any person who operates a motorcycle on one wheel is guilty of reckless driving
as defined in this Chapter. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1104. Special Equipment for Persons Riding Motorcycles.
The operator of a motorcycle and every passenger thereon shall be protected by
glasses, goggles or a transparent shield. The Illinois Department of
Transportation shall determine the standards for this equipment. These
standards shall establish requirements based upon those set forth in Vehicle
Equipment Safety Commission Regulations VESC-8, "Minimum Requirements for
Motorcyclists' Eye Protection". (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1105. Required Equipment on Motorcycles.
   A.   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebars higher than the
height of the shoulders of the operator when seated in the normal driving
position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by the operator.
   B.   Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or
enclosed cab, shall be equipped with permanent handgrips on the seat or saddle
carrying such passenger and with footrests adjusted to fit such passenger.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1106. Lights and Lamps.
   A.   When operated upon any highway in this City, every motorcycle shall at
all times exhibit at least one lighted lamp, showing a white light visible for
at least five hundred feet (500') in the direction the motorcycle is
proceeding. However, in lieu of such lighted lamp, a motorcycle may be equipped
with and use a means of modulating the upper beam of the headlamp between high
and a lower brightness. No such headlamp shall be modulated, except to
otherwise comply with this Chapter, during times when lighted lamps are
required for other motor vehicles.
   B.   All other motor vehicles shall exhibit at least two (2) lighted
headlamps, with at least one on each side of the front of the vehicle, showing
white lights or lights of a yellow or amber tint during the period from a half
hour after sunset to a half hour before sunrise and at any other times when,
due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and
vehicles on the highway are not clearly discernible at a distance of one
thousand feet (1,000'). Parking lamps may be used in addition to but not in
lieu of such headlamps. Every motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer shall also
exhibit at least two (2) lighted lamps, commonly known as taillamps, which
shall be mounted on the left rear and right rear of the vehicle so as to throw
a red light visible for at least five hundred feet (500') in the reverse
direction; except, that a truck tractor or road tractor manufactured before
January 1, 1968, and all motorcycles need be equipped with only one such
taillamp.
   C.   Either a taillamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and placed
as to illuminate with a white light a rear registration plate when required and
render it clearly legible from a distance of fifty feet (50') to the rear. Any
taillamp or taillamps, together with any separate lamp or lamps for
illuminating a rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlamps or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1107. Signal Lamps and Signal Devices.
Motorcycles and motor-driven cycles need not be equipped with electric turn
signals. Antique vehicles need not be equipped with twin signals unless such
were installed by the manufacturer. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1108. All-Terrain Vehicles, Operation.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any all-terrain
vehicle or off-highway motorcycle upon any street, highway or roadway in the
City.
   B.   Except as provided under subsection C of this Section, all-terrain
vehicles and off-highway motorcycles may make a direct crossing, provided:
      1.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
(90°) to the direction of the street, road or highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing; and
      2.   The all-terrain vehicle or off-highway motorcycle is brought to a
complete stop before attempting a crossing; and
      3.   The operator of the all-terrain vehicle or off-highway motorcycle
yields the right of way to all pedestrian and vehicular traffic which
constitutes a hazard.
   C.   No person operating an all-terrain vehicle or off-highway motorcycle
shall make a direct crossing upon or across any tollroad, interstate highway or
controlled access highway in the City. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1109. Intercom Helmets.
Any driver of a vehicle defined in subsections
15.143B13, B14 or B15 of this Chapter may use a helmet equipped with an
electronic intercom system permitting two-way vocal communication with drivers
of any such vehicles or passengers on such vehicles. (1993 Code)
ARTICLE XII
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
SECTION:
15.1201. Obedience to Signal Indicating Approach of Train
15.1202. Certain Vehicles Must Stop at All Railroad Grade Crossings
15.1203. Moving Heavy Equipment at Railroad Grade Crossing
15.1204. Stop and Yield Signs
15.1205. Emerging from Alley, Building, Private Road or Driveway
Sec. 15.1201. Obedience to Signal Indicating Approach of Train.
   A.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing, such person must exercise due care and caution as the existence of a
railroad track across a street is a warning of danger, and under any of the
circumstances stated in this Section, the driver shall stop within fifty feet
(50') but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of the
railroad and shall not proceed until he can do so safely. The foregoing
requirements shall apply when:
      1.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning
of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      2.   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues to
give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      3.   A railroad train approaching a street crossing emits a warning
signal and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such
crossing, is an immediate hazard;
      4.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity of such crossing; and
      5.   A railroad train is approaching so closely that an immediate hazard
is created.
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or
is being opened or closed. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1202. Certain Vehicles Must Stop at All Railroad Grade Crossings.
   A.   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks at grade, stop such vehicle within fifty feet (50')
but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail and, while so
stopped, shall listen and look for the approach of a train and shall not
proceed until such movement can be made with safety:
      1.   Any second division vehicle carrying passengers for hire;
      2.   Any school bus carrying a school child;
      3.   Any other vehicle which is required by Federal or State law to be
placarded when carrying as a cargo or part of a cargo hazardous material as
defined in the Illinois Hazardous Materials Transportation Act. After stopping
as required in this Section, the driver shall proceed only in a gear not
requiring a change of gears during the crossing, and the driver shall not shift
gears while crossing the track or tracks.
   B.   This Section shall not apply:
      1.   At any railroad grade crossing at which traffic is controlled by a
police officer or flagperson;
      2.   At any railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning traffic-
control signal transmitting a green indication which, under law, permits the
vehicle to proceed across the railroad tracks without slowing or stopping,
except that subsection A above shall apply to any school bus carrying a school
child;
      3.   At any streetcar grade crossing within a business or residence
district; or
      4.   At any abandoned, industrial or spur track railroad grade crossing
designated as exempt by the Illinois Commerce Commission and marked with an
official sign as authorized in the State Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways;
      5.   All school buses shall stop at all railroad crossings when carrying
passengers except at any railroad grade crossing located upon a four-lane
highway where the posted speed limit is in excess of forty five (45) miles per
hour or any railroad grade crossing at which traffic is controlled by a police
officer or flagperson. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1203. Moving Heavy Equipment at Railroad Grade Crossing.
   A.   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, power shovel,
derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a normal operating speed
of ten (10) or less miles per hour, or, for such equipment with eighteen feet
(18') or less distance between two (2) adjacent axles, having a vertical body
or load clearance of less than nine inches (9") above level surface, or, for
such equipment with more than eighteen feet (18') between two (2) adjacent
axles, having a vertical body or load clearance of less than one-half inch (1/
2") per foot of distance between such adjacent axles above a level surface upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
this Section.
   B.   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a superintendent
of such railroad and a reasonable time be given to such railroad to provide
proper protection at such crossing.
   C.   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than fifteen feet
(15') nor more than fifty feet (50') from the nearest rail of such railway and
while so stopped, shall listen and look in both directions along such track for
any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train and
shall not proceed until the crossing can be made safely.
   D.   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal or crossing gates or a flagman or otherwise of the immediate approach of
a railroad train or car. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1204. Stop and Yield Signs.
   A.   Preferential right of way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs as authorized by the City Manager, signposted and included in
Schedule IV of the Appendix to this Chapter.
   B.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or official
traffic-control signals, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point
nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching
traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection, or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1205. Emerging from Alley, Building, Private Road or Driveway.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road or
driveway shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving into the sidewalk
area extending across such alley, building entrance, road or driveway, or in
the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street
to be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon, and
shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid
collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right of way to all
vehicles approaching on such roadway. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
ARTICLE XIII
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
15.1301. Stopping, Standing or Parking Outside of Business or Residence
District
15.1302. Officers Authorized to Remove Illegally Stopped Vehicles
15.1303. Stopping, Standing or Parking Prohibited in Specific Place
15.1304. Angle Parking - One-Way Roadways
15.1305. Lessors of Visitor Vehicles - Duty Upon Receiving Notice of Violation
of Parking Regulations
15.1306. School Bus Stopping on Four-Lane Highway
15.1307. Interference with Fire Apparatus Prohibited
15.1308. Handicapped Persons - Parking - Exemptions
15.1309. Alleys
15.1310. Cab Stands - Bus Stands
15.1311. Loading Zones
15.1312. Truck Loading and Parking in Residence Districts
15.1313. Parking of Vehicle for Sale
15.1314. No Parking During Snow Removal
15.1315. No Parking Any Time
15.1316. Sunday Parking
15.1317. Weekday Parking
15.1318. Parking During School Hours
15.1319. Certain Post Meridian Parking Prohibited
15.1320. Limited Parking
15.1321. Obstructing Fire Lanes
15.1322. Parking Meter Zones
15.1323. Municipal Off-Street Parking Facilities
15.1324. Parking in Municipal Parking Lots
15.1325. Penalty
Sec. 15.1301. Stopping, Standing or Parking Outside of Business or Residence
District.
   A.   Outside of a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practical to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event, an unobstructed width of the roadway opposite such standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles and a clear view
of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of two hundred feet
(200') in each direction upon such roadway.
   B.   The City Manager shall have authority to prohibit the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles or to prescribe time limits for parking on any
street or highway under the control and jurisdiction of the City for the
maintenance of which the City is responsible, in such manner as he shall deem
necessary to promote public convenience and safety and so as to facilitate
traffic. Any such regulations adopted by the City Council or the City Manager
regarding the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles upon any specific
street, streets or highways shall become effective on and after the date of the
erection of appropriate signs indicating such regulations and such designation
is included in Schedule V of the Appendix to this Chapter.
   C.   This Section, Section
15.1303 and Section
15.1304 of this Article shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled in such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid
stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle in such position. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
85)
Sec. 15.1302. Officers Authorized to Remove Illegally Stopped Vehicles.
   A.   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of Section
15.1301 of this Article, such officer is hereby authorized to move such
vehicle, or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move
the same, to a position off the roadway.
   B.   Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to a place of safety any unattended vehicle left standing upon any
street, highway, bridge, causeway or a tunnel in such a position or under such
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
   C.   Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon
any street or highway when:
      1.   Report has been made that such vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner, or
      2.   The person or persons in charge of such vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal, or
      3.   When the person driving or in control of such vehicle is arrested
for an alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the
person arrested before a proper judicial official without unnecessary delay.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1303. Stopping, Standing or Parking Prohibited in Specific Place.
   A.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control device, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         b.   Extending over a sidewalk except during the hours of 9:00 p.m. to
6:00 a.m.;
         c.   Within an intersection;
         d.   On a crosswalk;
         e.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         f.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         g.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         h.   On any railroad tracks;
         j.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         k.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
      2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge passengers:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway;
         b.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
         c.   Within sixty feet (60') of a crosswalk at an intersection where a
street intersects with Wood Dale Road, Irving Park Road, and Addison Road;
         d.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at any other
intersection;
         e.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign, yield sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of
a roadway;
         f.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance of any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station,
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly signposted);
         g.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      3.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         a.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing;
         b.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to park on private property without the consent of
the owner of the private property or to park in any parking lot which is not
licensed according to law.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle, trailer/camper, boat or
any other recreation vehicle within a single-family, multiple-family,
commercial or industrial district at any location other than on a parking area
intended as a driveway or other approved parking area as defined in the zoning
regulations.
   D.   Stopping, standing or parking is prohibited in a public parking area or
public street, highway or roadway if the vehicle does not display a current
annual State issued registration sticker, license plates or current temporary
permit pending registration. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; Ord. O-17-021, 10-19-2017;
Ord. O-21-015, 7-15-2021; Ord. O-22-006, 2-3-2022)
Sec. 15.1304. Angle Parking - One-Way Roadways.
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels parallel to and within twelve inches (12") of the right-hand curb or as
close as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   B.   Except when otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped
or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel to the
curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic movement,
with its right-hand wheels within twelve inches (12") of the right-hand curb or
as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder, or its
left-hand wheels within twelve inches (12") of the left-hand curb, or as close
as practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   C.   It shall be lawful for a driver of a vehicle to park at a forty five
degree (45°) angle to a line parallel to the north and south curb line of Wood
Dale Road on the west side of Wood Dale Road from the north right-of-way line
of Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railroad tracks north to a line the
extension of which is the south curb line of Commercial Avenue. (Ord. 1312, 9-
5-1985)
Sec. 15.1305. Lessors Of Visitor Vehicles - Duty Upon Receiving Notice Of
Violation Of Parking Regulations.
   A.   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and
who leases such vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a
violation of this article or a parking regulation of the department involving
such vehicle, shall, upon request, provide such police officers as have
authority of the offense, and the court having jurisdiction thereof, with a
written statement of the name and address of the lessee at the time of such
offense and the identifying number upon the registration plates and
registration sticker or stickers of such vehicle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
   B.   A person convicted of violating this section shall be fined as
specified in the master fee schedule, notwithstanding any other sections or
subsections in this chapter to the contrary. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 15.1306. School Bus Stopping On Four-Lane Highway.
   A.   A school bus traveling on a highway having four (4) or more lanes for
vehicular traffic shall stop for the loading or discharging of passengers only
on the right side of the highway and when so stopped shall load or discharge
only those passengers whose residences are located to the right of the highway.
   B.   The routes of school buses shall be so arranged that no child shall be
required to cross such a four (4) or more lane highway to board a school bus or
to reach his residence after leaving the bus. This subsection shall not apply
when children are escorted by competent persons designated by the school
authorities or by law enforcement officers. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1307. Interference with Fire Apparatus Prohibited.
The driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, shall not park
such vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1308. Handicapped Persons - Parking - Exemptions.
   A.   A motor vehicle bearing registration plates issued to a handicapped
person or a disabled veteran pursuant to section 3-609 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, as amended, or a special decal or device issued pursuant to subsection B
of this section is exempt from any statute or ordinance imposing time
limitations on parking in a business district, but otherwise is subject to the
laws which prohibit parking in "no stopping" and "no standing" zones in front
of or near fire hydrants, driveways, public building entrances and exits, bus
stops and loading areas, and is prohibited from parking where the motor vehicle
constitutes a traffic hazard, and the motor vehicle must be moved at the
instruction and request of a police officer to a location designated by the
officer. Any motor vehicle bearing registration plates specified in this
section or such devices as the City Council deems proper, as evidence that the
vehicle is operated by or for a handicapped person or disabled veteran, may
park, in addition to any other lawful place, in any parking place specifically
reserved, by posting of an official sign, for such vehicles: (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
1985; amd. 1993 Code)
      1.   Parking privileges granted by this section are strictly limited to
the person to whom the special registration plate, special decal or device were
issued to qualified operators acting under his express direction while the
disabled person is present.
      2.   No person shall use any area for the parking of any motor vehicle
pursuant to section
15.1303 of this article or where an official sign controlling such area
expressly prohibits parking at any time during certain hours.
   B.   In accord with the Statutes of the State of Illinois, made and
provided, the Secretary of State shall provide for, by administrative rules the
design, size and color of a handicapped motorist decal or device which shall be
used by the City in the issuance thereof to handicapped persons.
      1.   This decal or device shall be property of such handicapped
individual and may be used by that person to designate and identify a vehicle
not owned or displaying a registration plate as provided in the Statutes of the
State of Illinois to designate when the vehicle is being used to transport said
handicapped licensed vehicle.
      2.   The City shall be responsible for the provision of such decal or
device, its issuance and designated placement within the vehicle. The cost of
such decal or device shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00). (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
   C.   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not bearing
registration plates issued to a handicapped person pursuant to section 3-616 or
disabled veteran pursuant to section 3-609 of the "Illinois Vehicle Code", as
amended, or such devices as the City Council deems proper as evidence that the
vehicle is operated by or for a handicapped person or disabled veteran, in any
parking place specifically reserved by the posting of an official sign, for
motor vehicles bearing such registration plates. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd.
1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1309. Alleys.
No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1310. Cab Stands - Bus Stands.
No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall be parked in any area designated
as a cab stand, and no vehicle other than a bus shall be parked in a space so
designated as a bus loading zone when such cab and bus stands are designated by
ordinance, signposted, and included in schedule VI of the appendix to this
chapter.
   A.   Only taxicabs in such numbers and of such kinds as are set forth on the
metal sign at a taxicab stand may remain at such stand while waiting for
employment; they shall wait in single file, positioned in accordance with the
traffic rules.
   B.   No taxicab standing at the head of any such line shall refuse to carry
any orderly person applying for a taxicab who agrees to pay the proper fare,
but this shall not prevent any person from selecting any taxicab he may desire
on the stand, whether it be at the head of the line or not.
   C.   As the taxicabs leave the line with passenger, those in the rear shall
move up, and any taxicab seeking a space on the stand shall approach only from
the rear of the stand and shall stop as near as possible to the last cab
already on the line.
   D.   No taxicab shall stand at the curb within fifteen feet (15') of the
entrance of any building adjacent to a taxicab stand located as designated in
schedule VI of the appendix to this chapter, which distance shall be determined
by measuring fifteen feet (15') on each side of the point of the curb opposite
the middle of the entrance to the adjacent building. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1311. Loading Zones.
During the times specified herein, it shall be unlawful for the driver of a
vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle for a period of time longer than is
necessary for the loading or unloading of passengers, not to exceed three (3)
minutes, and for the driver to stand any freight-carrying vehicle for a period
of time longer than is necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to
exceed thirty (30) minutes, in any of the following places:
   A.   In any public alley, during any hour of the day or night.
   B.   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to any hospital, motel or hotel at any time.
   C.   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to a public building between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. except on Sunday.
   D.   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time the
theater is open for business. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1312. Truck Loading And Parking In Residence Districts.
No person shall stand or park any truck, tractor, semitrailer or bus on any
street in any residence district within the City for a longer period than is
necessary for the expeditious loading or unloading of such vehicle. (Ord. 1312,
9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1313. Parking Of Vehicle For Sale.
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1314. No Parking During Snow Removal.
It shall be unlawful to park, or have parked, any vehicle on any unplowed
public street within twenty four (24) hours after a snowfall of two inches (2")
or more has occurred. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1315. No Parking Any Time.
Except in compliance with direction of a police officer or traffic signal, it
shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand, stop or park in any of the
places designated by the City Manager and signposted and included on schedule
VI of the appendix to this chapter. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1316. Sunday Parking.
Except in compliance with the direction of a police officer or traffic signal,
it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand, stop or park in any of the
places designated by the City Manager and signposted and included on schedule
VII of the appendix to this chapter. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1317. Weekday Parking.
The parking of any vehicle is prohibited on all weekdays, excluding Saturdays,
Sundays and legal holidays between those hours and on those streets designated
by the City Manager and signposted and included on schedule VIII of the
appendix to this chapter. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1318. Parking During School Hours.
The parking of any vehicle is prohibited on school days between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on such streets
designated by the City Manager and signposted and included on schedule IX of
the appendix to this chapter. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1319. Certain Post Meridian Parking Prohibited.
   A.   No person shall park any vehicle on any street or City owned parking
lot or parking space within the City between the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on every day, unless the parking lot or
parking space is governed by a parking or license agreement with the City. This
restriction will not apply to personal, non-commercial vehicles of residents
who live in a building that is located directly in front of an address where
the City owns the parking spaces.
The Police Department can grant permission for residents to park a vehicle on
the street overnight for up to five (5) nights per month. Permission can be
granted by the police dispatch center or other procedure approved by the Police
Chief. If there are additional hardships caused by this section, the Watch
Commander may allow for additional parking permission if it is determined that
a severe hardship exists. (Ord. O-17-014, 7-20-2017)
   B.   The parking of any vehicle is prohibited between the hours of six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on such streets designated by
the City Manager and signposted and included on schedule X of the appendix to
this chapter.
   C.   The parking of any vehicle is prohibited between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. from June 1 to September 30 on
such streets designated by the City Manager and included on
schedule XV of the appendix to this chapter. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1320. Limited Parking.
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any street or parking lot
restricted or for a longer period than the time designated in any area
signposted and included on the schedules listed below:
   A.   Fifteen Minute Parking: Parking of automobiles and other vehicles is
limited to fifteen (15) minutes on any day except Sundays and legal holidays
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on
the streets or portions thereof included on
schedule XI of the appendix to this chapter.
   B.   Restricted Parking: When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall park a vehicle at any time upon any street or within any public
Municipal parking lot or district described in
schedule XII of the appendix to this chapter, unless such person is a resident
and a current parking permit described in said schedule has been issued by the
City for such vehicle. Parking permit applicants shall file an application
annually and upon making such filing shall receive one residential parking
permit decal for each motor vehicle owned by such applicant, which decal, when
properly displayed and permanently affixed to the lower passenger side rear
window of such motor vehicle, shall allow such person to park that motor
vehicle for which the permit has been issued in the area reserved for such
permit parking as described in
schedule XII of the appendix to this chapter.
   C.   Two Hour Parking: Parking of automobiles and other vehicles is limited
to two (2) hours on any day except Sundays and legal holidays between the hours
of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on the streets or
portions thereof included on
schedule XIII of the appendix to this chapter.
   D.   Three Hour Parking: Parking of automobiles and other vehicles is
limited to three (3) hours on any day except Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays between the hours shown and upon the streets or portions thereof
included on
Schedule XIV of the Appendix to this Chapter. (Ord. 1599, 6-20-1991)
Sec. 15.1321. Obstructing Fire Lanes.
   A.   It shall be unlawful at any time for any person to block or obstruct,
wholly or partially, or to park or stand in any duly designated and posted fire
lane described on
Schedule XV of the Appendix to this Chapter.
   B.   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to have any vehicle illegally
parking or standing in a fire lane towed away and stored, and the cost of
towing and storing said vehicle shall be assessed against the driver or owner
and be in addition to any fine otherwise established by this Code. (Ord. 1312,
9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1322. Parking Meter Zones.
   A.   There are hereby established certain parking zones to be known as
parking meter zones, which zones shall be within the districts or upon those
streets or parts of streets described in
Schedule XVI of the Appendix of this Chapter.
   B.   Each parking meter shall be so designed, constructed, installed and set
that, upon the expiration of the time period registered, by the deposit of one
or more coins, as provided herein, it will indicate by an appropriate signal
that the lawful parking meter period has expired, and during said period of
time and prior to the expiration thereof, will indicate the interval of time
which remains of such period.
      1.   Each parking meter shall bear thereon a legend indicating the days
and hours when the requirement to deposit coins therein shall apply, the value
of the coins to be deposited, and the limited period of time for which parking
is lawfully permitted in the parking meter zone in which such meter is located.
      2.   Except as hereinafter provided, parking time limits on weekdays,
except holidays, Saturdays and Sundays, shall be the hours of six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. On Saturdays and Sundays, the parking time
limits shall be two (2) hours for which there will be no charge.
      3.   The following days shall be designated as holidays: January 1, Good
Friday, Memorial Day, July 4, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and December 25. If
any of these days shall fall on Sunday and be observed on Monday, or if any of
these days shall fall on Saturday and be observed on the Friday preceding, then
such Monday or Friday shall be considered as a holiday for the purposes of this
Section.
   C.   Deposit Of Coins And Time Limits:
      1.   No person shall park a vehicle in any parking space alongside of and
next to which a parking meter has been installed during the restricted and
regulated time applicable to the parking meter zone in which such meter is
located unless a coin or coins of United States currency of the appropriate
denomination as provided in this Chapter shall have been deposited therein for
an unexpired interval of time, and said meter has been placed in operation.
      2.   No person shall permit a vehicle within his control to be parked in
any such parking meter space during the restricted and regulated time
applicable to the parking meter zone in which such meter is located while the
parking meter for such space indicates by signal that the lawful parking time
in such space has expired. This provision shall not apply to the act of parking
or the necessary time which is required to deposit immediately thereafter a
coin or coins in such meter.
      3.   No person shall park a vehicle in any such parking meter space for a
consecutive period of time longer than that limited period of time for which
parking is lawfully permitted in the parking meter zone in which such meter is
located.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause to be
deposited an additional coin or coins to extend the parking time limit beyond
the maximum parking time limits as established for parking meter zones.
      5.   The provisions of this Section shall not relieve any person from the
duty to observe other and more restrictive provisions of this Chapter
prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles in
specified places or at specified times. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
   D.   Use Of Slugs Prohibited: No person shall deposit or attempt to deposit
in any parking meter any slug, button or any other device or substance as
substitutes for coins of United States currency.
   E.   Tampering With Meter: No person shall deface, injure, tamper with, open
or wilfully break, destroy or impair the usefulness of any parking meter.
   F.   Special Penalty:
      1.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections
15.1905 and
15.1325 of this Chapter, any person who violates subsections D and E of this
Section shall be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the Police Department of the City to issue
citations to any persons who violate the provisions of subsections C and D of
this Section. Such citations may be delivered to the violator personally or may
be affixed to the vehicle of the violator. Nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to abridge the power of a police officer to arrest any violator and
take him into custody.
   G.   Installation Of Meters:
      1.   The City Manager, with the approval of the City Council, shall
install parking meters in the parking meter zones established as provided in
this Chapter within approximately twenty four inches (24") of the outer curb
line or sidewalk line immediately adjacent to and in front of the individual
parking space.
      2.   The City Manager shall have markings painted or placed upon the curb
and/or upon the street or pavement adjacent to each parking meter for the
purpose of designating the parking space for which said meter is to be used, or
within a parking lot, and each vehicle parking adjacent or next to any parking
meter shall park within the lines or markings so established.
      3.   The installation of parking meters in the twelve-hour zones
established in subsection B of this Section shall be subject and pursuant to
the provisions of the agreement and lease with the Chicago and Northwestern
Railway Company relating to the installation of parking meters in such zones.
      4.   Plans and specifications for the installation of parking meters in
the City shall be placed on file with the City Clerk and shall be open for
inspection by the public.
      5.   The payment for such parking meters and the installation under any
contract or contracts heretofore entered into by the City or hereinafter to be
entered into by the City for the purpose of leasing, acquiring, installation,
operation, maintenance, supervision, regulation and use of the parking meters
provided for herein, either for a trial period or otherwise, shall be only and
solely from the receipts, funds and revenues obtained from the operation of
said parking meters, without in any manner obligating the City to pay for the
same from any other sources, and further, that no revenue bonds shall be issued
to pay for any such meters.
      6.   The operation, maintenance and management of the parking meters
shall be under the supervision of the City Manager, who shall see that said
meters are kept in good working and operating order and are installed to the
advantage of the City, and shall operate the whole project in an economical and
efficient manner.
   H.   Application Of Proceeds:
      1.   The City Manager, subject to the approval of the City Council, shall
designate such collector or collectors and methods as are necessary to collect
properly all coins deposited in the meter boxes.
      2.   Such collector or collectors shall be only such employees as are now
or may hereafter be duly bonded in a sum not less than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for the faithful performance of their duties.
      3.   All monies so collected shall be deposited with the City Treasurer
who shall credit such collections to the Parking Meter Fund for the purposes
set forth herein and shall submit a monthly report to the City Council showing
all revenues derived from parking meters.
      4.   The coins required to be deposited in parking meters as provided in
this Article are levied and assessed as fees to cover: the regulation and
control of parking upon public streets; the cost of parking meters, their
installation, inspection, supervision, operation, repair and maintenance,
control and use of parking spaces, and regulating the parking of vehicles in
parking meter zones; and the costs of acquiring, establishing, improving,
maintaining and operating public off-street parking facilities.
      5.   The City Treasurer shall pay from such special Fund the cost of any
parking meters purchased by the City and installed as provided in this Article,
and expenses incurred for their installation, inspection, service, supervision,
repair and maintenance, for making collections from such parking meters and for
the enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter applicable to parking meter
zones. The net proceeds of the operation of parking meters in said special
Fund, after the payment of such costs and expenses, shall be used for parking
studies and for the acquisition, establishment, improvement, maintenance and
operation of public off-street parking facilities as the City Council shall
from time to time direct.
      6.   The Parking Meter Fund shall be audited as a separate fund at the
time of the annual audit by the City.
   J.   Violation Determined: Proof of registration of a motor vehicle and
proof of violation of this Section shall be construed as prima facie proof that
the registered owner of such motor vehicle was the user or operator thereof at
the time of the violation charged. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1323. Municipal Off-Street Parking Facilities.
   A.   The City shall establish certain off-street parking facilities
throughout the corporate limits of the City as follows:
      1.   That property located south of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and
Pacific Railroad tracks legally described as:
Lot 3 of G and W Subdivision of part of the west half of the northwest quarter
of Section 15, Township 40 North, Range 11 East of the Third Principal
Meridian, in the City of Wood Dale, in DuPage County, Illinois.
      2.   That parking area located north of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul
and Pacific Railroad tracks, east of Wood Dale Road, south of the northerlymost
right-of-way line of Front Street, and west of Elmwood Avenue.
      3.   That property located south of Irving Park Road on Walnut Avenue on
a temporary basis - during the time within which the City of Wood Dale is in
possession thereof by reason of a certain lease dated January 15, 1977, between
the landowner and the City of Wood Dale, legally described as:
Lot 5 (except the north 23 feet thereof) in Bleck's subdivision of 5 acres in
the northwest quarter of Section 15, Township 40 North, Range 11, East of the
Third Principal Meridian, according to the plat thereof recorded March 2, 1889,
as Document 40583 in DuPage County, Illinois.
   B.   The aforedescribed tracts of land shall be held by the City for the
off-street parking of motor vehicles and may produce revenue for the City
through the City's use of parking meters and/or any other revenue-producing
facilities as the corporate authorities of the City from time to time may find
the necessity therefor exists.
      1.   The City may maintain, improve, extend and operate such parking
facilities and charge for the use thereof.
      2.   The City Council shall make all reasonable rules and regulations not
in conflict with the laws of the State or ordinances of the City regarding the
management, control and use of such parking facilities so as to assure maximum
use and occupancy thereof.
      3.   The administration of the City shall maintain said parking
facilities in good condition and operate same in an economical and efficient
manner. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. 1993 Code)
   C.   The City Council hereby determines the necessity for producing revenue
upon that tract of land legally described in subsection A1 of this section; so
that hereafter, it shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle in
the aforedescribed parking lot (known as the railroad station commuter parking
lot) unless such person has arranged for payment to the City in the amounts set
forth per parking space, as follows:
      1.   No person shall park a motor vehicle in any numbered parking space
in the aforedescribed railroad station commuter parking lot without first
purchasing a ticket therefor from the pay and display machine located thereon
for an amount as specified in the master fee schedule, either in lawful money
of the United States of America or by charging such amount to a credit or debit
card prescribed by the City's Finance Department and in lawful possession of
the user. Payment of such fee shall entitle a person to park a vehicle in a
numbered space for up to twelve (12) consecutive hours on the date of purchase
from the time of payment, but in any event no later than eleven fifty nine
o'clock (11:59) P.M. on that date. No vehicle having a current valid quarterly
permit as provided for in subsection C2 of this section shall be parked in any
numbered parking space without payment of the required fee as described in this
paragraph.
      2.   No person shall park a motor vehicle in any unnumbered parking
spaces within the aforedescribed railroad station commuter parking lot without
first securing for that vehicle a quarterly permit from the City by a payment
of a fee as specified in the master fee schedule and displaying said current
parking permit on the rearview mirror of such vehicle so that it is visible
through the windshield whenever the vehicle is parked in any such unnumbered
space. No vehicle for which a ticket has been purchased as provided for in
subsection C1 of this section shall be parked in any unnumbered parking space
without displaying a current quarterly permit as provided for in this
paragraph. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
      3.   The aforedesignated rates shall be applicable to that period of time
between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of each weekday,
Monday through Saturday, so that prior to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and after six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any such given weekday the railroad station commuter
parking lot may be utilized without charge or fee by any person desiring to
park a motor vehicle therein. (Ord. 1847, 5-16-1996)
   D.   The Chief of Police is authorized to have any illegally parked vehicle
towed away and stored, and the cost of towing and storing said vehicle shall be
assessed against the driver or owner and be in addition to the fine otherwise
established by this chapter. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. 1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1324. Parking In Municipal Parking Lots.
In any Municipally owned and metered parking lot, it shall be unlawful for any
person:
   A.   To park a vehicle in any area of such lot which is not designated (by
lines or markings painted or placed on the pavement, wheel stops, etc.) as a
parking space and/or which space has no parking meter adjacent thereto for the
use thereof.
   B.   To back a vehicle into any parking space thereof whenever signs have
been placed in such lot which shall read: "Park Facing Meter - Do Not Back In"
or "Park Facing Bumper - Do Not Back In".
   C.   To park any motor vehicle in the City parking lot at the stalls
reserved for the Police Department or at the stalls reserved for authorized
personnel only.
   D.   To park or store any recreational vehicle, motorhome, boat, trailer or
any motorized equipment.
   E.   To park or store any truck or commercial vehicle in excess of eight
thousand (8,000) pounds by registered weight, actual weight, GCWR or GVWR, as
defined in the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   F.   To park or store overnight any recreational vehicle, motorhome, boat,
trailer or any commercial vehicle, motorized equipment or any other truck or
commercial vehicle in excess of eight thousand (8,000) pounds by registered
weight, actual weight, GCWR or GVWR, as defined in the Illinois Compiled
Statutes. (Ord. O-18-008, 3-15-2018)
Sec. 15.1325. Penalty.
   A.   Notwithstanding the provisions of article XV of this chapter, or
subsection
15.1322H of this article, whenever a police officer is authorized to arrest a
person without a warrant because of a violation of any section of this article,
said police officer may, in lieu of the filing of a complaint in court, in the
first instance issue to such alleged violator, a citation:
      1.   Advising said person that he has violated a specific section herein;
      2.   Requesting him to make payment in an amount applicable to said
alleged violation as set forth in subsection E of this section as settlement of
said violation claim; and
      3.   Informing him that upon failure to so settle, a complaint will be
filed in the Eighteenth Judicial Court of DuPage County, charging him with such
violation.
   B.   Pursuant to said citation, the person so accused of said violation may
settle and compromise the violation claim in respect to such section violation
by paying to the City the applicable amount as shown in the schedule set forth
in subsection E of this section, within a period to be specified in said
citation, not more than thirty (30) days of the time said alleged offense was
committed.
Such payment shall be made in accordance with the instructions contained in the
aforesaid citation, at the Office of the City Collector who shall issue a
receipt for the money so received and promptly remit said amount to the City
Treasurer to be credited to the proper Municipal fund.
   C.   In the event that the person to whom said citation is issued fails to
settle and pay said violation claim within the prescribed time, or within a
period of time specified in a final notice (if one is served upon him), then
the peace officer is authorized to cause a notice to appear to be served upon
said alleged violator and is authorized to file a complaint and to prosecute
the same in the Eighteenth Judicial Circuit of DuPage County.
   D.   The fact that an automobile or motor vehicle which is illegally
operated or parked is registered with the Secretary of State in the name of
said alleged violator; or, in the alternative, in the event that a vehicle
sticker issued by a municipality has been issued in the name of and to said
alleged violator, shall be considered prima facie proof that said alleged
violator was in control of or was the operator of the automobile or motor
vehicle at the time of such alleged violation. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
   E.   For violations, the violation claim described in said citation so to be
issued pursuant to the terms of this article, excepting subsections
15.1322F and G of this article, may be settled, compromised and paid in the
respective amounts set forth in the master fee schedule:
      1.   In the event said payment is made prior to the mailing by the City
or by the peace officer of a final notice, the amounts as specified in the
master fee schedule shall be accepted as settlement.
      2.   In the event that payment has not been paid prior to the mailing of
such final notice, and in fact, final notice has been mailed, the amounts as
specified in the master fee schedule shall be accepted as settlement.
      3.   In the event that payment is not made within the time prescribed in
the final notice, and a notice to appear has been served and a complaint filed
in the Eighteenth Judicial Circuit of DuPage County, payment of any fine and
costs shall be in such amounts as may be determined and established by the
Eighteenth Judicial Circuit of DuPage County pursuant to section
15.1905 of the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE XIV
MISCELLANEOUS LAWS
SECTION:
15.1401. Unattended Motor Vehicles
15.1402. Limitations On Backing
15.1403. Clinging To Vehicles
15.1404. Passengers Boarding Or Exiting A School Bus
15.1405. Operation Of Religious Organization Bus
15.1406. Obstruction Of Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
15.1407. Opening Vehicle Doors
15.1408. Riding In House Trailers
15.1409. Coasting Prohibited
15.1410. Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited
15.1411. Direction Of Traffic At Scene Of Fire
15.1412. Crossing Fire Hose
15.1413. Putting Glass, Etc., On Highway Prohibited
15.1414. Approaching, Overtaking And Passing School Bus
15.1415. School Buses; Stopping, Loading And Discharging On Highways Having
Four Or More Lanes
15.1416. Obstructing Person In Highways
15.1417. Travel Regulated
15.1418. Farm Tractor Operation Regulated
15.1419. Operation Of Motor Vehicles; Duration; Exemptions
15.1420. Funeral Processions
15.1421. Conditions For Operating Ambulances And Rescue Vehicles
15.1422. Illegal Operation Of An Ambulance Or Rescue Vehicle; Penalty
15.1423. Spilling Loads On Highways Prohibited
15.1424. Regulations Of Snowmobiles; Generally
15.1425. Driver And Passenger Required To Use Safety Belts; Exceptions And
Penalty
15.1426. Operation Of All-Terrain Vehicles And Off Highway Motorcycles On
Streets, Roads And Highways
15.1427. Illegal Driving Or Operation
15.1428. Motorized Toy Vehicles
15.1429. Child Passenger Protection Provisions Adopted; Violations And
Penalties
Sec. 15.1401. Unattended Motor Vehicles.
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing
the key from the ignition and effectively setting the brake thereon and, when
standing upon any perceptible grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or
side of the street. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1402. Limitations On Backing.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any controlled
access highway. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1403. Clinging To Vehicles.
It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a bicycle, motorcycle
or any toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or his vehicle to any moving
motor vehicle or vehicle attached thereto, or to ride upon the fenders, running
board or outside step of any vehicle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1404. Passengers Boarding Or Exiting A School Bus.
   A.   At all pick up points where it is necessary for a school bus passenger
to cross the roadway to board the bus, the school bus driver shall signal the
awaiting passenger when it is safe to cross the roadway ahead of the bus.
   B.   At all discharge points where it is necessary for a school bus
passenger to cross the roadway, the school bus driver shall direct the
passenger to a point approximately ten feet (10') in front of the bus on the
shoulder and shall then signal the passenger when it is safe to cross the
roadway. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1405. Operation Of Religious Organization Bus.
   A.   No religious organization bus may be operated on any street or highway
unless all passengers, except for supervisory personnel, are seated in seats
permanently mounted to the vehicle, and the aisle of the bus is kept clean and
open.
   B.   No religious organization bus may be operated on any street or highway
while carrying more than the manufacturer's rated passenger capacity for such
bus, or at a gross weight in excess of the chassis manufacturer's gross vehicle
weight rating (GVWR) or gross axle weight rating (GAWR), or in excess of the
weight load ratings of the tires on such bus. For buses or tiers on which the
manufacturer has not shown such ratings by a label, embossment, molding or
equivalent means, the department of transportation shall provide or assist in
obtaining the necessary ratings and may publish such ratings.
   C.   In loading or unloading passengers, the religious organization bus
driver shall stop the bus out of the lane of moving traffic at any bus stop,
officially designated as such by the city, or in a parking lane on the pavement
of the highway or on the shoulder off of the highway, if wide enough to permit
the safe loading or unloading of passengers. If, however, there is no such bus
stop, parking lane or shoulder within fifty feet (50') of the residence or
temporary residence of the passenger transported or to be transported by the
bus or within fifty feet (50') of the religious facility, the driver may stop
the bus on the pavement of the highway after activating unison amber warning
lights for not less than two hundred feet (200') before the bus is brought to a
stop and while passengers are being loaded or unloaded, or if the bus is
equipped as a school bus and meets the requirements of section
15.712 of this chapter.
   D.   At all pick up points where it is necessary for a religious
organization bus passenger under the age of twelve (12) years to cross the
roadway to board the bus, a responsible supervisor on the bus shall personally
escort the awaiting passenger when it is safe to cross the roadway ahead of the
bus.
   E.   At all discharge points where it is necessary for a religious
organization bus passenger under the age of twelve (12) years to cross the
roadway, a responsible supervisor on the bus shall personally escort the
passenger to a point approximately ten feet (10') in front of the bus on the
shoulder and then, when it is safe to cross the roadway, cross the roadway to a
place of safety.
   F.   If a school bus is used by a religious organization bus for the
purposes specified in subsections
15.712B, C and D of this chapter when picking up or discharging passengers,
compliance with subsections D and E of this section is optional. (Ord. 1312, 9-
5-1985)
Sec. 15.1406. Obstruction Of Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism.
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded or when there are
in the front seat such number of persons exceeding three (3) as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere with
the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger on a school bus shall ride or stand in a position as to
interfere with the driver's view ahead or to the side or to the rear, or to
interfere with his control of the driving mechanism of the bus. (Ord. 1312, 9-
5-1985; amd. 1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1407. Opening Vehicle Doors.
No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers. (Ord. 1312,
9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1408. Riding In House Trailers.
No person or persons shall occupy a house trailer or travel trailer while it is
being moved upon a public street. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1409. Coasting Prohibited.
   A.   The driver of any motor vehicle traveling upon a downgrade shall not
coast with the gears or transmission of such vehicle in neutral.
   B.   The driver of a motor vehicle of the second division when traveling
upon a downgrade shall not coast with the clutch disengaged. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
1985)
Sec. 15.1410. Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited.
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five
hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where
the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1411. Direction Of Traffic At Scene Of Fire.
Any Fire Department officer in command, or any fireman designated by him, may
exercise the power and authority of a police officer in directing traffic at
the scene of a fire or where the Fire Department has responded to any emergency
call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on the scene, in the absence
of or in assisting police. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1412. Crossing Fire Hose.
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department when
laid down on any street, private road or driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1413. Putting Glass, Etc., On Highway Prohibited.
   A.   No person shall throw, spill or deposit upon any highway any bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any litter (as defined in section 3 of the
Litter Control Act).
   B.   Any person who violates subsection A of this section upon any highway
shall immediately remove such material or cause it to be removed.
   C.   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other debris dropped upon the highway from such vehicle.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. 1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1414. Approaching, Overtaking And Passing School Bus.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle upon a street upon meeting or overtaking, from
either direction, any school bus which has stopped on the street for the
purpose of receiving or discharging pupils shall stop the vehicle before
reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus the visual
signals as specified in article XV of this chapter and the driver shall not
proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the driver of the vehicle is
signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or the visual signals are no
longer actuated.
      1.   Any person convicted of violating this subsection, upon conviction,
shall be fined an amount as specified in the master fee schedule.
      2.   The Illinois Secretary of State shall suspend for thirty (30) days
the driver's license of any driver convicted of violating this subsection A.
(Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   B.   The stop signal arm required by article XV of this chapter shall be
extended after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of
loading or discharging pupils and shall be closed before starting out again.
The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other time.
   C.   The alternately flashing signal lamps of a four-lamp or eight- lamp
flashing signal system required by Article XV of this Chapter shall be actuated
after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be turned off before starting out again. The red
signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time except as provided in
subsection D of this Section.
   D.   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system, or the alternately flashing red signal lamps of a four-lamp
flashing signal system required by Article XV of this Chapter shall be actuated
continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by
the bus before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils within
a business or residential district and during not less than the last two
hundred feet (200') traveled by the bus outside a business or residential
district. The amber signal lamps shall remain actuated until the bus is
stopped. The amber signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time.
   E.   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway of which the roadways for
traffic moving in opposite directions are separated by a strip of ground which
is not surfaced or suitable for vehicular traffic need not stop his vehicle
upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on the opposite roadway and need
not stop his vehicle when driving upon a controlled access highway when a
school bus is stopped in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved
part of the controlled access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to
cross such controlled access highway. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1415. School Buses - Stopping, Loading and Discharging Passengers on
Highways Having Four or More Lanes.
   A.   A school bus traveling on a highway having four (4) or more lanes for
vehicular traffic shall stop for the loading or discharging of passengers only
on the right side of the highway and when so stopped shall load or discharge
only those passengers whose residences are located to the right of the highway.
   B.   The routes of school buses shall be so arranged that no child shall be
required to cross such a four (4) or more lane highway to board a school bus or
to reach his residence after leaving the bus.
   C.   This Section shall not apply when children are escorted by competent
persons designated by the school authorities or by law enforcement officers.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1416. Obstructing Person in Highways.
No person shall wilfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay, or
wilfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any street or offer or
barter or sell merchandise on said street so as to interfere with the effective
movement of traffic. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1417. Travel Regulated.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or cause to be driven a vehicle of
any description in or upon any portion of the street immediately after the same
has been dragged and before such portion of the street shall have partially
dried or frozen; provided, that nothing in this Section shall apply in those
instances where it is impossible to drive with safety at one side of said
dragged portion of the road, or where a vehicle does not make a rut on such
dragged portion of the road injurious to the work accomplished by use of the
road drag, or where a vehicle does not make a rut nearer than nine feet (9')
from the center of the dragged portion of the road. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1418. Farm Tractor Operation Regulated.
   A.   No person shall operate a farm tractor on a highway unless such tractor
is being used as an implement of husbandry in connection with farming
operations.
   B.   For the purpose of this Section, use of a farm tractor as an implement
of husbandry in connection with farming operations shall be deemed to include
use of such tractor in connection with the transportation of agricultural
products and of farm machinery, equipment and supplies as well as
transportation of such tractors in connection with the obtaining of repairs
thereto, and the towing of a registered truck of not more than eight thousand
(8,000) pounds for use as return transportation after the tractor is left at
the place of work or repair. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1419. Operation of Motor Vehicles - Duration - Exceptions.
It is unlawful for any owner to require, permit, allow or suffer any operator
of any of his motor vehicles of the second division to operate any such motor
vehicle for a longer period than ten (10) hours following eight (8) consecutive
hours off-duty or drive for any period after having been on duty fifteen (15)
hours following eight (8) consecutive hours off-duty, or to be or remain on
duty more than sixty (60) hours in any seven (7) consecutive days, and whenever
any such operator has operated such motor vehicle for ten (10) hours following
eight (8) consecutive hours off-duty, he shall be relieved and not required,
permitted, allowed or suffered again to operate any such motor vehicle until he
has had at least eight (8) consecutive hours off-duty.
   A.   However, the Illinois Department of Law Enforcement may fix, by general
rule or temporary order, the circumstances and regulations under which, in case
of emergency or unusual temporary demands for transportation, any such operator
may be permitted to operate any such motor vehicle or to stay on duty for
longer periods of time than set by this Section.
   B.   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any public utility in
the operation of any motor vehicle not for hire in case of emergency or in case
of unusual temporary necessity for transportation of persons or property or
safeguarding of vehicles and their loads, nor shall such provisions apply to
operation of any motor vehicle as part of the agricultural operations of
canning, packing or freezing establishments engaged in the growing and
processing of perishable fruits and vegetables, including the hauling of such
products between fields and such canning, packing or freezing establishments
and between such establishments, nor shall such provisions apply to operation
of any motor vehicle being used for transportation of construction materials or
equipment to, on or from construction sites within a radius of fifty (50) miles
of such construction sites, nor to driver salesmen operating within a radius of
fifty (50) miles of their principal place of business. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1420. Funeral Processions.
   A.   Funeral processions have the right of way at intersections when
vehicles comprising such processions have their headlights lighted, subject to
the following conditions and exceptions:
      1.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right
of way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an audible
or visible signal;
      2.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right
of way when directed to do so by a traffic officer;
      3.   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic control signals, but when the leading
vehicle has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with such signal or
after stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in such procession
may proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal, and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   B.   The operator or operators of a vehicle not in the funeral procession
shall not drive his vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to
do so by a traffic officer or when such vehicle is an authorized emergency
vehicle giving audible or visible signal.
   C.   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form a
procession or convoy and have their headlights lighted for the purpose of
securing the right of way granted by this Section to funeral processions.
   D.   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicle in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   E.   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when such vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in such procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may
utilize funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers to identify the
individual vehicles in such a procession. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1421. Conditions for Operating Ambulances and Rescue Vehicles.
No person shall operate an ambulance or rescue vehicle in a manner not
conforming to a provision of the motor vehicle laws and regulations of the
State of Illinois or of the City as such provision applies to motor vehicles in
general, except in compliance with the following conditions:
   A.   The person operating the ambulance shall be either responding to a bona
fide emergency call or specifically directed by a licensed physician to
disregard traffic laws in operating the ambulance during and for the purpose of
the specific trip or journey that is involved;
   B.   The ambulance or rescue vehicle shall be equipped with a siren
producing an audible signal of an intensity of one hundred (100) decibels at a
distance of fifty feet (50') from said siren and with a lamp or lamps emitting
an oscillating, rotating or flashing red beam directed in part toward the front
of the vehicle. These lamps shall have sufficient intensity to be visible at
five hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight;
   C.   The aforesaid siren and lamp or lamps shall be in full operation at all
times when it is reasonably necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of
the approach thereof during such trip or journey;
   D.   Whenever the ambulance or rescue vehicle is operated at a speed in
excess of forty (40) miles per hour, the ambulance or rescue vehicle shall be
operated in complete conformance with every other motor vehicle law and
regulation of the State of Illinois and of the City relating to the operation
of motor vehicles as such provision applies to motor vehicles in general,
except laws and regulations pertaining to compliance with official traffic-
control devices or to vehicular operation upon the right half of the roadway;
   E.   The ambulance shall display registration plates identifying the vehicle
as an ambulance; and
   F.   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an ambulance or
rescue vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor do such provisions protect the driver from the consequences
resulting from the reckless disregard for the safety of others. (Ord. 1312, 9-
5-85)
Sec. 15.1422. Illegal Operation of an Ambulance or Rescue Vehicle - Penalty.
A person who operates an ambulance or rescue vehicle in violation of Section
15.1421 shall be subject to the penalty prescribed by the applicable law,
regulation or ordinance of the State of Illinois or the City. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
85)
Sec. 15.1423. Spilling Loads on Highways Prohibited.
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless such vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load unless
said load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent said
covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1424. Regulation of Snowmobiles - Generally.
   A.   State Registration Required:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall, after the effective
date hereof, operate any snowmobile within the City unless such snowmobile has
been registered and numbered in accordance with the provisions of this Section,
and unless the certificate of number awarded to such snowmobile is in full
force and effect.
      2.   In accord with the statutes of the State of Illinois, made and
provided, the owner of any snowmobile shall apply the registration decals
issued by the State of Illinois to each side of the cowling of such snowmobile.
      3.   A snowmobile shall not be required to be numbered under the Illinois
Vehicle Code, as amended, if it is:
         a.   Owned and used by the United States, another state or a political
subdivision thereof, but such snowmobilers shall display the name of the owner
on the cowling thereof.
         b.   Covered by a valid registration or license of another state,
province or country which is the domicile of the owner of the snowmobile and is
not operated within the State of Illinois on more than thirty (30) consecutive
days in any calendar year.
         c.   Owned and operated on lands owned by the owner or operator or
lands to which he has a contractual right other than as a member of a club or
association, provided the snowmobile is not operated elsewhere within the City.
         d.   Used only on international or national competition circuits in
events for which written permission has been obtained by the sponsoring or
sanctioning body from the governmental unit having jurisdiction over the
location of any event held in this City.
   B.   Equipment:
      1.   All snowmobiles operating within this City shall be equipped with:
         a.   At least one white headlamp having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to exhibit a white light plainly visible from a distance
of at least five hundred feet (500') ahead during hours of darkness under
normal atmospheric conditions. If a snowmobile is equipped with a single beam
lamp, such lamp shall be so aimed that when the vehicle is loaded none of the
high intensity portion of the light, at a distance of twenty five feet (25') in
front of the vehicle, projects higher than the level of the center of the lamp
from which it originates.
         b.   At least one red taillamp having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of
five hundred feet (500') to the rear during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions.
         c.   A brake system in good mechanical condition.
         d.   Reflective material of a minimum area of sixteen (16) square
inches mounted on each side of the cowling. Identifying numbers may be included
in computing the required sixteen (16) square inch area.
         e.   Adequate sound suppression equipment. No snowmobile manufactured
after June 1, 1972, shall be sold or offered for sale unless it is equipped
with sound suppression devices that limit total machine noise in accordance
with noise pollution standards established pursuant to the Environmental
Protection Act 1 .
   C.   Operation of Snowmobiles: It is unlawful for any person to drive or
operate any snowmobile in the following ways:
      1.   At a rate of speed too fast for conditions and the fact that the
speed of the snowmobile does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit
allowed does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle or object within legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
      2.   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner.
      3.   While under the influence of intoxicating beverages or narcotic or
dangerous drugs.
      4.   At any time without at least one lighted headlamp and one lighted
taillamp on the snowmobile.
      5.   Within five hundred (500) yards of any nature preserve.
      6.   On the tracks or right of way of an operating railroad.
      7.   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or
destroys growing stock or creates a substantial risk thereto.
      8.   On private property without the written or verbal consent of the
owner or lessee thereof. Any person operating a snowmobile upon lands of
another shall stop and identify himself upon the request of the landowner or
his duly authorized representative and, if required to do so by the landowner,
shall promptly remove the snowmobile from the premises.
      9.   An owner, lessee or occupant of the premises who gives permission to
another to snowmobile upon such premises does not thereby extend any assurance
that the premises are safe for such purpose or assume responsibility for or
incur liability for any injury to person or property caused by any act of
persons to whom the permission is granted. This subsection shall not apply
where permission to snowmobile is given for a valuable consideration other than
to this City.
      10.   An owner, lessee or occupant of premises owes no duty to keep the
premises safe for entry or use by others for snowmobiling, or to give warning
of any unsafe condition or use of or structure or activity on such premises.
This subsection does not apply where permission to snowmobile is given for a
valuable consideration other than to this City.
      11.   On the frozen surface of public waters of this city within one
hundred feet (100') of a person, including a skater not in or upon a snowmobile
or within one hundred feet (100') of a person engaged in fishing, except at the
minimum speed required to maintain forward movement of the snowmobile; on an
area which has been cleared of snow for skating purposes, unless the area is
necessary for the access to the frozen waters of this city.
      12.   Within one hundred feet (100') of a dwelling between twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. at a speed greater than the
minimum required to maintain forward movement of the snowmobile. This provision
would not apply on private property where verbal or written consent of the
owner or lessee has been granted to snowmobile upon such private property or
frozen waters of this city.
      13.   On highways other than tollways, interstate highways and limited
access highways, snowmobiles may make a direct crossing, provided:
         a.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
(90°) to the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing; and
         b.   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing a
highway; and
         c.   The operator yields the right of way to all oncoming traffic
which constitutes a hazard.
      14.   On highways, other than state highways, tollways, interstate
highways and limited access highways, snowmobiles may be operated not less than
ten feet (10') from the roadway and in the same direction as traffic; provided,
however, that such operation may occur within ten feet (10') of such roadway in
order to avoid obstructions or hazardous terrain or when it is necessary to
cross a bridge or culvert or when it is impractical to give minimum access to
an area adjacent to highways where such snowmobile is being operated.
      15.   No person shall use a snowmobile to take, pursue or intentionally
harass or disturb wildlife, as defined in section 1.2t of the wildlife code 2 ,
except, such restriction shall not apply to any person acting to protect
livestock from predatory animals.
   D.   Youthful Operators Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person without a
valid motor vehicle driver's license to operate a snowmobile on a highway as
provided in this chapter. No person under ten (10) years of age may operate a
snowmobile. Persons at least ten (10) and less than twelve (12) years of age
may operate a snowmobile only if they are either accompanied on the snowmobile
by a parent or guardian. Persons at least twelve (12) years of age and less
than sixteen (16) years of age may operate a snowmobile only if they are either
accompanied on the snowmobile by a parent or guardian or a person at least
sixteen (16) years of age designated by a parent or guardian, or such operator
is in possession of a certificate issued by the department of transportation
authorizing the holder to operate snowmobiles. Violations of this section done
with the knowledge of a parent or guardian shall be deemed a violation by the
parent or guardian and punishable under article X of the Illinois vehicle code.
   E.   Operation On Ice: Snowmobiles may be operated on the frozen waters of
this city subject to the rules and regulations of the department of
transportation and subsection C of this section.
   F.   Collisions, Accidents And Casualties; Reports:
      1.   The operator of a snowmobile involved in a collision, accident or
other casualty shall render to other persons affected by this collision,
accident or other casualty such assistance as may be practicable and as may be
necessary in order to save them from or minimize any danger caused by the
collision, accident or other casualty, and also shall give his name, address
and identification of his snowmobile to any person injured and to the owner of
any property damaged in the collision, accident or other casualty.
      2.   In the case of collision, accident or other casualty involving a
snowmobile, the operator thereof, if the collision, accident or other casualty
results in death or injury to a person or damage to property in excess of one
hundred dollars ($100.00), shall file with the department a full description of
the collision, accident or other casualty, including such information as the
department may, by regulation, require. Reports of such accidents must be filed
with the department of transportation on a department accident report form
within five (5) days.
      3.   Reports of accidents resulting in personal injury, wherein a person
is incapacitated for a period exceeding seventy two (72) hours, must be filed
with the department of transportation on a department accident report form
within five (5) days. Accidents which result in loss of life shall be reported
to the department of transportation on a department form within forty eight
(48) hours.
      4.   All required accident reports and supplemental reports are without
prejudice to the individual so reporting and are for the confidential use of
the department of transportation; except, that the department of transportation
may disclose the identity of a person involved in an accident when such
identity is not otherwise known or when such person denies his presence at such
accident. No such report may be used as evidence in any trial, civil or
criminal, arising out of an accident; except, that the department of
transportation must furnish upon demand of any person who has or claims to have
made such a report, or upon demand of any court, a certificate showing that a
specified accident report has or has not been made to the department of
transportation, solely to prove a compliance or a failure to comply with the
requirements that such a report be made to the department of transportation.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
2 1. 520 ILCS.
Sec. 15.1425. Driver And Passenger Required To Use Safety Belts; Exceptions And
Penalty.
   A.   Each driver and front seat passenger of a motor vehicle operated on a
street or highway in this state shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened
seat safety belt; except that, a child less than eight (8) years of age shall
be protected as required pursuant to the child passenger protection act, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 25/2 et seq. (West 2010). Each driver under the age
of eighteen (18) years and each of the driver's passengers under the age of
nineteen (19) years of a motor vehicle operated on a street or highway in this
State shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt. Every
passenger under the age of nineteen (19) in a vehicle being driven by a person
over the age of eighteen (18) who committed an offense against traffic
regulations governing the movement of vehicles or any violation of this section
or section 6-107 of the Vehicle Code within six (6) months prior to the
driver's eighteenth birthday and was subsequently convicted of the violation,
shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt, until such time
as a period of six (6) consecutive months has elapsed without the driver
receiving an additional violation and subsequent conviction of an offense
against traffic regulations governing the movement of vehicles or any violation
of this section or section 6-107 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. Each driver of a
motor vehicle transporting a child eight (8) years of age or more, but less
than sixteen (16) years of age, shall secure the child in a properly adjusted
and fastened seat safety belt as required under the Child Passenger Protection
Act. Each driver of a motor vehicle transporting a passenger who is unable, due
to infirmity, illness, or age, to properly adjust and fasten a seat safety belt
and is not exempted from wearing a seat safety belt under subsection B of this
section shall secure the passenger in a properly adjusted and fastened seat
safety belt as required under this section.
   B.   Subsection A of this section shall not apply to any of the following:
      1.   A driver or passenger frequently stopping and leaving the vehicle or
delivering property from the vehicle, if the speed of the vehicle between stops
does not exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour.
      2.   A driver or passenger possessing a written statement from a
physician that such person is unable, for medical or physical reasons, to wear
a seat safety belt.
      3.   A driver or passenger possessing an official certificate or license
endorsement issued by the appropriate agency in another state or country
indicating that the driver is unable for medical, physical, or other valid
reasons to wear a seat safety belt.
      4.   A driver operating a motor vehicle in reverse.
      5.   A motor vehicle with a model year prior to 1965.
      6.   A motorcycle or motor driven cycle.
      7.   A moped.
      8.   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with seat
safety belts under Federal law.
      9.   A motor vehicle operated by a rural letter carrier of the United
States Postal Service while performing duties as a rural letter carrier.
   C.   Failure to wear a seat safety belt in violation of this section shall
not be considered evidence of negligence, shall not limit the liability of an
insurer, and shall not diminish any recovery for damages arising out of the
ownership, maintenance, or operation of a motor vehicle. (Ord. O-11-003, 3-3-
2011)
   D.   A violation of this section shall be a petty offense and subject to a
fine as specified in the master fee schedule, except as the violation pertains
to the Child Protection Safety Act as stated in section 15.1429 of this
article. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   E.   A law enforcement officer may not search or inspect a motor vehicle,
its contents, the driver, or a passenger solely because of a violation of this
section. (Ord. O-11-003, 3-3-2011)
Sec. 15.1426. Operation Of All-Terrain Vehicles And Off Highway Motorcycles On
Streets, Roads And Highways.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any all-terrain
vehicle or off highway motorcycle upon any street, highway or roadway in the
City.
   B.   Except as provided under subsection C of this section, all- terrain
vehicles and off highway motorcycles may make a direct crossing, provided:
      1.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
(90°) to the direction of the street, road or highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing; and
      2.   The all-terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle is brought to a
complete stop before attempting a crossing; and
      3.   The operator of the all-terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle
yields the right-of-way to all pedestrian and vehicular traffic which
constitutes a hazard; and
      4.   That when crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at
an intersection of the highway with another public street, road or highway; and
   C.   No person operating an all-terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle
shall make a direct crossing upon or across any tollroad, interstate highway,
or controlled access highway. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1427. Illegal Driving Or Operation.
   A.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any
all-terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle in the following way:
      1.   Careless or heedless manner so as to be grossly indifferent to the
person or property of other persons, or at a rate of speed greater than will
permit him in the exercise of reasonable care to bring the all-terrain vehicle
or off highway motorcycle to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
      2.   In such a manner as to endanger the life, limb or property of any
person.
      3.   Within any nature preserve as defined in section 3.11 of the
Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act.
      4.   On the tracks or right-of-way of an operating railroad.
      5.   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or
destroys growing stock, or creates a substantial risk thereto.
      6.   On private property, without the written or verbal consent of the
owner or lessee thereof. Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or off
highway motorcycle upon lands of another shall stop and identify himself upon
the request of the landowner or his duly authorized representative, and, if
requested to do so by the landowner shall promptly remove the all-terrain
vehicle or off highway motorcycle from the premises.
Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, an owner, lessee or occupant of
premises owes no duty of care to keep the premises safe for entry or use by
others or to give warning of any condition, use, structure or activity on such
premises.
Nothing in this subsection limits in any way liability which otherwise exists
for wilful or malicious failure to guard or warn against a dangerous condition,
use, structure or activity.
      7.   On publicly owned lands unless such lands are designated for use by
all-terrain vehicles or off highway motorcycles. For publicly owned lands to be
designated for use by all-terrain vehicles or off highway motorcycles, a public
hearing shall be conducted by the City.
Nothing in this subsection limits in any way liability which otherwise exists
for wilful or malicious failure to guard or warn against a dangerous condition,
use, structure or activity.
   B.   Other Prohibitions:
      1.   No person, except persons permitted by law, shall operate or ride
any all-terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle with any firearm in his
possession unless it is unloaded and enclosed in a carrying case, or any bow
unless it is unstrung or rendered unable to fire and is in a carrying case.
      2.   No person shall operate any all-terrain vehicle or off highway
motorcycle emitting pollutants in violation of standards established pursuant
to the Environmental Protection Act 1 .
      3.   No person shall deposit from an all-terrain vehicle or off highway
motorcycle on the snow, ice or ground surface, trash, glass, garbage, insoluble
material or other offensive matter. (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
Sec. 15.1428. Motorized Toy Vehicles.
   A.   Prohibition: Except as to areas owned and authorized for motorized
skateboards, motorized roller skates, motorized scooters, motor assisted
pedicycles or motor assisted bicycles use, it shall be unlawful:
      1.   To operate, propel or for the owner to cause or knowingly permit to
be driven or moved any motorized skateboards, motorized roller skates,
motorized scooters, motor assisted pedicycles or motor assisted bicycles in or
upon any Municipal parking area, sidewalk, street, roadway, public way, bike
trail, pedestrian trail or bridge within the corporate limits of the City.
      2.   To operate, propel or for the owner to cause or knowingly permit to
be driven or moved any motorized skateboards, motorized roller skates,
motorized scooters, motor assisted pedicycles or motor assisted bicycles upon
any fence, berm, retaining wall, dividing wall or structure, parking barrier,
stairway, handrail or guardrail in or upon any Municipal parking area,
sidewalk, street, roadway, public way, bike trail, pedestrian trail or bridge
within the corporate limits of the City. (Ord. O-03-022, 8-21-2003)
   B.   Penalty For Violation: Any person violating the provisions of this
section shall be subject to fines as specified in the master fee schedule.
(Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   C.   Exemptions: Motorized wheelchairs shall be exempt from the provisions
of this section. (Ord. O-03-022, 8-21-2003)
Sec. 15.1429. Child Passenger Protection Provisions Adopted; Violations And
Penalties.
   A.   Adoption By Reference: The City of Wood Dale hereby adopts and
incorporates by reference into this Code each and every provision of the
Illinois Child Passenger Protection Act (hereinafter the "Act"), 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 25/2 et seq., as amended from time to time, as if fully set
out in this Code. The penalties provided in the Act are included in this
adoption by reference. Any proceeding resulting from a violation of an Act
regulation, written as a violation of this Code, shall be deemed to be a civil
matter for purposes of burden of proof and rules of court. The fact that a
particular activity is proscribed or regulated in both the Act and another
section of this chapter shall not affect either the validity of this section or
the validity of this Code regulation. Except where noted, if any provision in
the Act and this chapter are inconsistent with each other, the provisions as
set forth in this Code shall govern.
Any regulation found in the Act may be cited as a regulation of this Code by
placing before it the prefix "WD". (Ord. O-11-003, 3-3-2011)
   B.   Fees And Penalties:
      1.   A first violation of the Act is a petty offense punishable by a fine
as specified in the master fee schedule.
      2.   Except as provided in subsection B4 of this section, a person
charged with a violation of section 4 of the Child Passenger Protection Act
shall not be convicted if the person produces in court satisfactory evidence of
possession of an approved child restraint system, as defined under the Act, and
proof of completion of an instructional course on the installation of a child
restraint system pursuant to section 6a of the Act. The Chief Judge of each
circuit may designate an officer of the court to review the documentation
demonstrating that a person charged with a violation of section 4 of the Act is
in possession of an approved child restraint system and has completed an
instructional course.
      3.   A second or subsequent violation of the Act is a petty offense
punishable by a fine as specified in the master fee schedule.
      4.   Subsection B2 of this section shall not apply in the case of a
second or subsequent violation of the Act. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE XV
EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
15.1501. Scope and Effect of Equipment Requirements
15.1502. When Lighted Lamps are Required
15.1503. Clearance, Identification and Side Marker Lamps
15.1504. Lamps on Parked Vehicles
15.1505. Lamp or Flag on Projecting Load
15.1506. Lamps on Other Vehicles
15.1507. Lamps and Other Equipment on Bicycles and Pedalcycles
15.1508. Spot Lamps and Auxiliary Driving Lamps
15.1509. Signal Lamps and Signal Devices
15.1510. Additional Lighting Equipment
15.1511. Use of Headlamps and Auxiliary Driving Lamps
15.1512. Number of Driving Lamps Required or Permitted
15.1513. Special Restrictions on Lamps
15.1514. Special Lighting Equipment on School Buses
15.1515. Special Lighting Equipment on Rural Mail Delivery Vehicles
15.1516. Oscillating, Rotating or Flashing Lights on Motor Vehicles
15.1517. Operation of Oscillating, Rotating or Flashing Lights
15.1518. Brakes
15.1519. Brake Fluid
15.1520. Restrictions as to Tire Equipment
15.1521. Operating Conditions of Pneumatic Tires
15.1522. Safety Glazing Material in Motor Vehicles
15.1523. Mirrors
15.1524. Windshields Unobstructed and Equipped with Wipers
15.1525. Horns and Warning Devices
15.1526. Mufflers, Prevention of Noise
15.1527. Seat Safety Belts
15.1528. Television Receivers
15.1529. Tow Trucks - Identification - Equipment - Insurance
15.1530. Suspension System
15.1531. Bumpers
15.1532. Disposal of Motor Vehicles Bearing Police Markings
15.1533. Headset Receivers and Sound Amplification Systems
15.1534. Tractors, Traction Engines and Motor Trucks - Operation on Highways -
Turning on Highways During Farming Operations - Violations
15.1535. Certain Vehicles to Carry Flares or Other Warning Devices
15.1536. Road Oil Vehicles - Dripping on Certain Highways Forbidden
15.1537. Vehicle Transporting Explosives or Radioactive Materials
15.1538. Vehicles Transporting Flammable Liquids when Lights Required - Marked
with Reflectorized Paint
15.1539. School Buses - Special Requirements
15.1540. Slow-Moving Vehicle Emblem
15.1541. Rear Fender Splash Guards
15.1542. Special Regulations for Religious Organization Buses
15.1543. Vehicle Passenger Capacity
15.1544. Operator Protective Frames on Tractor-Mower Combinations
Sec. 15.1501. Scope and Effect of Equipment Requirements.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved, on any street or highway in
the City any vehicle or combination of vehicles which are in such unsafe
condition as to endanger any person or property, or which do not contain those
parts or are not at all times equipped with such lamps and other equipment in
proper condition and adjustment as required in this Article or which are
equipped in any manner in violation of this Article, or for any person to do
any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required under this Chapter.
   B.   The provisions of this Article with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers or
farm tractors or to farm-wagon type trailers having a fertilizer spreader
attachment permanently mounted thereon having a gross weight of not to exceed
ten thousand (10,000) pounds and used only for the transportation of bulk
fertilizer or to farm-wagon type tank trailers of not to exceed one thousand
two hundred (1,200) gallons' capacity used during the liquid fertilizer season
as field-storage "nurse tanks" supplying the fertilizer from a local source of
supply to farm or field or from one farm or field to another. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
85)
Sec. 15.1502. When Lighted Lamps are Required.
   A.   When upon any highway in this City, during the period from sunrise to
sunset, every motorcycle shall at all times exhibit at least one lighted lamp,
showing a white light visible for at least five hundred feet (500') in the
direction the motorcycle is proceeding.
   B.   All other motor vehicles shall, during the period from sunset to
sunrise, or at any other time when visibility is so limited as to require the
use of lights for safety, exhibit two (2) such lighted driving lamps showing
white lights, or lights of a yellow or amber tint, visible for at least five
hundred feet (500') in the direction the motor vehicle is proceeding. Parking
lamps may be used in addition to but not in lieu of any such driving lamps.
Every motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer shall also exhibit at least two
(2) lighted lamps, commonly known as taillamps, which shall be mounted on the
left rear and right rear of the vehicle so as to throw a red light visible for
at least five hundred feet (500') in the reverse direction; except, that a
motorcycle or a truck tractor or road tractor manufactured before January 1,
1968, need to be equipped with only one such lamp.
   C.   Either a taillamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and placed
to illuminate with a white light a rear registration plate when required and
render it clearly legible from a distance of fifty feet (50') to the rear. Any
taillamp or taillamps, together with any separate lamp or lamps for
illuminating a rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlamps or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
85)
Sec. 15.1503. Clearance, Identification and Side Marker Lamps.
   A.   Every motor vehicle of the second division, the length of which,
together with any trailer or trailers in tow thereof, is more than twenty five
feet (25'), or the width of which is more than eighty inches (80"), exclusive
of mirrors, bumpers and other required safety devices, while being operated on
the streets of this City during the period from sunset to sunrise, shall
display on the front of the vehicle two (2) yellow or amber lights, one on each
upper front corner of the vehicle which shall be plainly visible at a distance
of at least five hundred feet (500'); also on the rear thereof in a horizontal
line, three (3) red lights plainly visible at a distance of not less than five
hundred feet (500'); also on the front of the body of that vehicle near the
lower left-hand corner one yellow or amber tinted reflector, and near the lower
right-hand corner one yellow or amber tinted reflector; also red reflectors in
the rear of the body of that vehicle, not more than twelve inches (12") from
the lower left- hand and right-hand corners. All motor vehicles of the second
division more than twenty feet (20') long, and all trailers and semi-trailers,
except trailers and semi-trailers having a gross weight of three thousand
(3,000) pounds or less, including the weight of the trailer and maximum load,
while being operated on the streets of this City during the period from sunset
to sunrise, shall display on each side of the vehicle at approximately one-
third (1/3) points of the length of the same, at a height not exceeding five
feet (5') about the surface of the road, and reflecting on a line approximately
at right angles to the center line of the vehicle, two (2) amber tinted
reflectors. After January 1974, all new motor vehicles of the second division
more than twenty feet (20') long and all trailers and semi- trailers, except
trailers and semi-trailers having a gross weight of three thousand (3,000)
pounds or less including the weight of the trailer, on the highways of the
City, during the period from sunset to sunrise, shall display on each side of
the vehicle not more than twelve inches (12") from the front, one amber tinted
reflector and not more than twelve inches (12") from the rear, one red
reflector at a height not exceeding five feet (5') above the surface of the
road and reflecting on a line approximately at right angles to the center line
of the vehicle, approved by the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   B.   Every trailer and semi-trailer having a gross weight of three thousand
(3,000) pounds or less, including the weight of the trailer and maximum load,
towed either by a motor vehicle of the first division or a motor vehicle of the
second division shall be equipped with two (2) red reflectors, which will be
visible when hit by headlight beams three hundred feet (300') away at night, on
the rear of the body of such trailer not more than twelve inches (12") from the
lower left-hand and lower right-hand corners.
   C.   Every vehicle designated in subsections A or B of this Section that is
manufactured after December 31, 1973, shall, at the places and times specified
in said subsections A or B, display reflectors and clearance, identification
and side marker lamps in conformance with the specifications prescribed by the
Illinois Department of Transportation. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1504. Lamps on Parked Vehicles.
   A.   During that period from sunset to sunrise, every motorcycle or motor
vehicle which is standing on any highway shall display a parking light on the
front and at the rear of the same, unless the City, by ordinance, designates
any part or parts of any streets as parking places in which motorcycles and
motor vehicles may be parked without having their lamps lighted as otherwise
required by this Section.
   B.   Any lighted driving lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1505. Lamp or Flag on Projecting Load.
Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet (4') or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load at the times specified in Section 15.1502 of this Article,
a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least five hundred
feet (500') to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required under this
Section shall be in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle.
At any other time, there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such a
load a red flag or cloth not less than twelve inches (12") square. (Ord. 1312,
9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1506. Lamps on Other Vehicles.
   A.   Every vehicle, including animal-drawn vehicles, referred to in
subsection B of Section 15.1505 not specifically required by the provisions of
this Article to be equipped with lamps or other lighting devices, shall at all
times specified in Section 15.1502 of this Section be equipped with at least
two (2) lamps displaying a white light visible from a distance of not less than
one thousand feet (1,000') to the front of such vehicle and shall also be
equipped with two (2) lamps displaying a red light visible from a distance of
not less than one thousand feet (1,000') to the rear of such vehicle.
   B.   The preceding subsection does not apply to antique vehicles. An antique
vehicle shall be equipped with lamps of the same type originally installed by
the manufacturer as original equipment and in working order.
   C.   Every animal-drawn vehicle, farm tractor, implement of husbandry and
special mobile equipment, except when used for road construction or maintenance
within the limits of a construction or maintenance project where traffic-
control devices are used in compliance with the applicable provisions of the
manual and specifications adopted under section 11-301 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code (625 Illinois Compiled Statutes) when operated on a street during a time
when lighted lamps are required by Section 15.1502 of this Chapter, shall
display to the rear at least one flashing amber signal lamp mounted as high as
practicable and of sufficient intensity to be visible for a distance of at
least five hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight; provided, that only the
rearmost vehicle of a combination of vehicles coupled together need display
such lamp. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1507. Lamps and Other Equipment on Bicycles and Pedalcycles.
   A.   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a
type approved by the Illinois Department of Transportation which shall be
visible from all distances from one hundred feet to six hundred feet (100' –
600') to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on
a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   B.   A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle any siren.
   C.   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle.
   D.   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflector conforming to specifications prescribed by the
Illinois Department of Transportation on each pedal, visible from the front and
rear of the bicycle during darkness from a distance of two hundred feet (200').
   E.   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. Such reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of five hundred feet (500') and shall be red to
the rear of the center of the bicycle and amber to the front of the center of
the bicycle; provided, the requirements of this subsection may be met by
reflective materials which shall be at least three-sixteenths of an inch (3/
16") wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate as clearly as possible
the continuous circular shape and size of the tires or rims of such bicycle and
which reflective materials may be of the same color on both the front and rear
tire or rim. Such reflectors shall conform to specifications prescribed by the
Illinois Department of Transportation.
   F.   Every motorized pedalcycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped
with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on
the rear of a type approved by the Illinois Department of Transportation which
shall be visible from all distances from one hundred feet to six hundred feet
(100' – 600') to the rear when directly in front of lawful low-powered beams of
headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1508. Spot Lamps and Auxiliary Driving Lamps.
   A.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed one spot lamp and
every lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another
vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed
to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor
more than one hundred feet (100') ahead of the vehicle.
   B.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed three (3)
auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than twelve
inches (12") nor more than forty two inches (42") above the level surface upon
which the vehicle stands.
   C.   The restrictions of subsections A and B of this Section shall not apply
to authorized emergency vehicles or equipment used for snow and ice removal
operations if owned or operated by or for any governmental body.
   D.   The minimum and maximum height restrictions prescribed in subsection B
of this Section shall not apply to privately owned motor vehicles on which a
snow plow is mounted, while in transit between or during snow and ice removal
operations. This exemption shall apply only during the period from November 15
through April 1, and only when the snow plow blade, commonly referred to as a
"moldboard", is properly and securely affixed to the front of the motor
vehicle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85; 1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1509. Signal Lamps and Signal Devices.
   A.   Every vehicle, other than an antique vehicle displaying an antique
plate, operated in this City shall be equipped with a stop lamp or lamps on the
rear of the vehicle which shall display a red or amber light visible from a
distance of not less than five hundred feet (500') to the rear in normal
sunlight and which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot)
brake and which may, but need not, be incorporated with other rear lamps.
During times when lighted lamps are not required, an antique vehicle may be
equipped with a stop lamp or lamps on the rear of such vehicle of the same type
originally installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in working
order. However, at all other times, such antique vehicle must be equipped with
stop lamps meeting the requirements of this Section 15.1509.
   B.   Every motor vehicle, other than an antique vehicle displaying an
antique plate, shall be equipped with an electric turn signal device which
shall indicate the intention of the driver to turn to the right or to the left
in the form of flashing lights located at and showing to the front and rear of
the vehicle on the side of the vehicle toward which the turn is to be made. The
lamps showing to the front shall be mounted on the same level and as widely
spaced laterally as practicable, and, when signaling, shall emit a white or
amber light, or any shade of light between white and amber. The lamps showing
to the rear shall be mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally
as practicable and, when signaling, shall emit a red or amber light. An antique
vehicle shall be equipped with a turn signal device of the same type originally
installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in working order.
   C.   Every trailer and semi-trailer shall be equipped with an electric turn
signal device which indicates the intention of the driver in the power unit to
turn to the right or to the left in the form of flashing red or amber lights
located at the rear of the vehicle on the side towards which the turn is to be
made and mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable.
   D.   Turn signal lamps must be visible from a distance of not less than
three hundred feet (300') in normal sunlight.
   E.   Motorcycles and motor-driven cycles need not be equipped with electric
turn signals. Antique vehicles need not be equipped with turn signals unless
such were installed by the manufacturer as original equipment. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-
85)
Sec. 15.1510. Additional Lighting Equipment.
   A.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two (2) side cowl
or fender lamps which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
   B.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running board
courtesy lamp on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber light
without glare.
   C.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with one or more back-up lamps either
separately or in combination with other lamps; except, that any such back-up
lamp or lamps shall not be lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1511. Use of Headlamps and Auxiliary Driving Lamps.
   A.   Whenever the driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving
headlamp, driving headlamps, auxiliary driving lamp or auxiliary driving lamps
is within five hundred feet (500') of another vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction, the driver shall dim or drop such headlamp or headlamps and
shall extinguish all auxiliary driving lamps.
   B.   The driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving headlamp,
headlamps, auxiliary driving lamp or auxiliary driving lamps shall dim or drop
such headlamp or headlamps and shall extinguish all auxiliary driving lamps
when there is another vehicle traveling in the same direction less than three
hundred feet (300') to the front of him.
   C.   No vehicle shall have the lighting system modified to allow more than
two (2) electric headlamps to be lighted while operating in the dimmed or
dropped position.
   D.   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit the use of auxiliary driving
lamps, commonly referred to as "fog" lamps, when used in conjunction with the
headlamps, if such auxiliary driving lamps are adjusted and so aimed that the
glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of drivers of oncoming vehicles.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85; 1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1512. Number of Driving Lamps Required or Permitted.
   A.   At all times specified in Section 15.1502, at least two (2) lighted
driving lamps shall be displayed, one on each side at the front of every motor
vehicle other than a motorcycle, except when such vehicle is parked subject to
the regulations governing lights of parked vehicles.
   B.   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with driving lamps as herein required
is also equipped with any auxiliary driving lamps or a stop lamp or any other
lamp on the front thereof, not more than a total of four (4) of any such lamps
on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at any one time when upon a highway
or street. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85; 1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1513. Special Restrictions on Lamps.
Except as provided in Sections 15.1514 and 15.1516 of this Article:
   A.   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any street
with any lamp or device thereon displaying a red light visible from directly in
front thereof.
   B.   Subject to the restrictions in this Chapter, flashing lights are
prohibited on motor vehicles except as means for indicating a right or left
turn or the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in
approaching, overtaking or passing.
   C.   Unless otherwise expressly authorized by this Chapter, all other
lighting or combination of lighting on any vehicle shall be prohibited. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-85; 1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1514. Special Lighting Equipment on School Buses.
   A.   Each school bus purchased as a new vehicle after December 31, 1975,
shall be equipped with an eight-lamp flashing signal system.
      1.   Until December 31, 1976, all other school buses shall be equipped
with either a four-lamp or an eight-lamp flashing signal system.
      2.   After December 31, 1978, all school buses shall be equipped with an
eight-lamp flashing signal system.
   B.   A four-lamp flashing signal system shall have two (2) alternately
flashing red lamps mounted as high and as widely spaced laterally on the same
level as practicable at the front of the school bus and two (2) such lamps
mounted in the same manner at the rear.
   C.   An eight-lamp flashing signal system shall have, in addition to a four-
lamp system, four (4) alternately flashing amber lamps. Each amber lamp shall
be mounted next to a red lamp and at the same level but closer to the center
line of the school bus.
   D.   Each signal lamp shall be a sealed beam at least five and one- half
inches (51/2") in diameter and shall have sufficient intensity to be visible at
five hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight. Both the four-lamp and eight-lamp
system shall be actuated only by means of a manual switch. There shall be a
device for indicating to the driver that the system is operating properly or is
inoperative.
   E.   Each Type I school bus shall be equipped with an amber three- bar
clearance light on the front of the bus. The light shall be illuminated at all
times when the bus is being operated between sunset and sunrise and in
conditions of reduced visibility.
   F.   Strobe Lamp on School Bus:
      1.   A school bus may be equipped with one strobe lamp that will emit
sixty (60) to one hundred twenty (120) flashes per minute of white or bluish-
white light visible to a motorist approaching the bus from any direction. The
lamp shall be of sufficient brightness to be visible in normal sunlight when
viewed directly from a distance of at least one mile.
      2.   The strobe lamp shall be mounted on the rooftop of the bus with the
light-generating element in the lamp located equidistant from each side and
either at or behind the center of the rooftop. The maximum height of the
element above the rooftop shall not exceed one-thirtieth (1/30) of its distance
from the rear of the rooftop. If the structure of the strobe lamp obscures the
light- generating element, the element shall be deemed to be in the center of
the lamp with a maximum height of one-fourth inch (1/4") less than the maximum
height of the strobe lamp unless otherwise indicated in rules and regulations
promulgated by the Illinois Department of Transportation. The Illinois
Department of Transportation may promulgate rules and regulations to govern
measurements, glare, effectiveness and protection of strobe lamps on school
buses, including higher strobe lamps than authorized in this subparagraph.
      3.   The strobe lamp may be lighted only when atmospheric conditions so
severely restrict visibility of bus lamps and signals as to require the bright
strobe lamp to alert motorists to the presence of a school bus. No strobe lamp
may be lighted unless the school bus is actually being used as a school bus
and:
         a.   Is stopping or stopped for loading or discharging pupils on a
highway; or
         b.   Is bearing one or more pupils and is either stopped or, in the
interest of safety, is moving very slowly at a speed:
            (1)   less than the posted minimum speed limit or
            (2)   less than thirty (30) miles per hour on a highway. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-85; 1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1515. Special Lighting Equipment on Rural Mail Delivery Vehicles.
If a rural mail delivery vehicle is equipped with special signal lamps, there
shall be displayed to the front two (2) such alternately flashing amber lamps
located at the same level and mounted as high and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable and to the rear two (2) alternately flashing amber lamps located at
the same level and mounted as high and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable. Such lamps shall be of sufficient intensity to be visible at five
hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight and shall be controlled so that they
will only be used to indicate to other traffic that a stop is being made for
the purpose of picking up or delivering U.S. mail. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1516. Oscillating, Rotating or Flashing Lights on Motor Vehicles.
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter:
   A.   Red oscillating, rotating or flashing lights, whether lighted or
unlighted, are prohibited except on:
      1.   Law enforcement vehicles of the State, Federal government and/or the
City;
      2.   Law enforcement vehicles owned by other local authorities;
      3.   A vehicle operated by a police officer or County coroner and
designated or authorized, in writing, as a law enforcement vehicle; however,
such designation or authorization shall be carried in the vehicle;
      4.   Vehicles of the Wood Dale Fire Department or other local fire
departments and firefighting vehicles of the State or Federal government; and
      5.   Vehicles which are designed and used exclusively as ambulances or
rescue vehicles; furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except while
responding to an emergency call for the purpose of conveying sick or injured
persons.
   B.   Amber oscillating, rotating or flashing lights, whether lighted or
unlighted, are prohibited except on:
      1.   Second division vehicles designed for towing or hoisting disabled
vehicles; furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except when such
vehicles are actually being used for such purposes;
      2.   Motor vehicles or equipment of the State of Illinois, City and other
local authorities and contractors; furthermore, such lights shall not be
lighted except while such vehicles are engaged in maintenance or construction
operations within the limits of the construction project;
      3.   Vehicles or equipment used by engineering or survey crews;
furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except while such vehicles are
actually engaged in work on a highway;
      4.   Vehicles of public utilities, municipalities or other construction,
maintenance or automotive service vehicles except that such lights shall be
lighted only as a means for indicating the presence of a vehicular traffic
hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, overtaking or passing while such
vehicles are engaged in maintenance, service or construction on a highway.
      5.   Oversized vehicle or load moving under permit 1  issued by the State
Department of Public Safety;
      6.   The front and rear of motorized equipment owned and operated by the
State of Illinois or the City, or any other political subdivision of the State
of Illinois, which is designed and used for removal of snow and ice from
highways;
      7.   Fleet safety vehicles registered in another state; furthermore, such
lights shall not be lighted except as provided for in this Chapter; and
      8.   Law enforcement vehicles of the State or City when used in
combination with red oscillating, rotating or flashing lights;
      9.   Vehicles used for collecting or delivering mail for the United
States Postal Service; provided, that such lights shall not be lighted except
when such vehicles are actually being used for such purposes;
      10.   Any vehicle displaying a slow-moving vehicle emblem;
      11.   All trucks equipped with self-compactors or roll-off hoists and
roll-on containers for garbage or refuse hauling. Such lights shall not be
lighted except when such vehicles are actually being used for such purposes.
      12.   Such other vehicles as may be authorized by the City and/or other
local authorities.
   C.   Blue oscillating, rotating or flashing lights, whether lighted or
unlighted, are prohibited except on:
      1.   The front, or any part from the back of the front seat forward to
the windshield, and said light may be permanently or temporarily mounted and
covered or uncovered, of any motor vehicle owned or fully operated by a
volunteer fireman, paid fireman, part-paid fireman or on call fireman; such
lights to be used only while responding to a fire call or other Fire Department
emergency, or the vehicle of any volunteer, paid or unpaid or on-call member of
a rescue squad responding to a rescue squad emergency.
      2.   Vehicles of rescue squads when on the way to an emergency call.
      3.   Police department vehicles in cities having a population of five
hundred thousand (500,000) or more inhabitants.
   D.   All oscillating, rotating or flashing lights referred to in this
Section shall be of sufficient intensity, when illuminated, to be visible at
five hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight.
   E.   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit a manufacturer of oscillating,
rotating or flashing lights or his representative from temporarily mounting
such lights on a vehicle for demonstration purposes only.
   F.   The use of a combination of amber and white oscillating, rotating or
flashing lights, whether lighted or unlighted, is prohibited, except motor
vehicles or equipment of the City or State and contractors may be so equipped;
furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except while such vehicles are
engaged in highway maintenance or construction operations within the limits of
highway construction projects. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85; 1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS 5/15-301.
Sec. 15.1517. Operation of Oscillating, Rotating or Flashing Lights.
Oscillating, rotating or flashing lights located on top of police vehicles in
this City shall be lighted whenever a police officer is in pursuit of a
violator of a traffic law or regulation. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1518. Brakes.
   A.   Brake Equipment Required:
      1.   Every motor vehicle, other than a motor-driven cycle and an antique
vehicle displaying an antique plate, when operated upon a highway, shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold
such vehicle, including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes, each of
which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at least one wheel on a
motorcycle and at least two (2) brakes to wheels on all other first division
and second division vehicles. If these two (2) separate means of applying the
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle
without brakes.
      2.   Every motor-driven cycle, when operated upon a highway, shall be
equipped with at least one brake which may be operated by hand or foot.
      3.   Every antique vehicle shall be equipped with the brakes of the same
type originally installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in
working order.
      4.   Every trailer or semi-trailer of a gross weight over three thousand
(3,000) pounds, when operated upon a highway, must be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of, to stop and to hold such vehicle, and
designed so as to be operable by the driver of the towing vehicle from its cab.
Such brakes must be so designed and connected that in case of an accidental
breakaway of a towed vehicle over five thousand (5,000) pounds, the brakes are
automatically applied.
      5.   Every motor vehicle, trailer, pole trailer or semi-trailer operated
upon the highways or highways of the City shall be equipped with service brakes
upon all wheels of every such vehicle, except any motor-driven cycle and except
that any trailer, pole trailer or semi-trailer three thousand (3,000) pounds
gross weight or less need not be equipped with brakes, and except that any
trailer or semi-trailer with a gross weight over three thousand (3,000) pounds
but under five thousand one (5,001) pounds need be equipped with brakes on only
one wheel on each side of the vehicle. Any motor vehicle and truck tractor
having three (3) or more axles and manufactured prior to July 25, 1980, need
not have brakes on the front wheels, except when such vehicles are equipped
with at least two (2) steerable axles, the wheels of one such axle need not be
equipped with brakes. However a vehicle that is more than thirty (30) years of
age and which is driven on the highways only in going to and returning from an
antique auto show or for servicing or for a demonstration need be equipped with
two (2) wheel brakes only.
   B.   Performance Ability of Brakes:
      1.   The service brakes upon any motor vehicle or combination of vehicles
operating on any level surface shall be adequate to stop such vehicle or
vehicles when traveling twenty (20) miles per hour within a distance of thirty
feet (30') when upon dry asphalt or concrete pavement surface free from loose
material.
      2.   Under the above conditions the hand brake shall be adequate to stop
such vehicle or vehicles, except any motorcycle, within a distance of fifty
five feet (55') and the hand brake shall be adequate to hold such vehicle or
vehicles stationary on any grade upon which operated.
      3.   Under the above conditions, the service brakes upon an antique
vehicle shall be adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of forty feet
(40') and the hand brake adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of
fifty five feet (55').
      4.   All braking distances specified in this Section apply to all
vehicles mentioned, whether such vehicles are unloaded or loaded to the maximum
capacity permitted under this Code.
      5.   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be so
adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels on
opposite sides of the vehicles.
      6.   Brake assembly requirements for mobile homes shall be the standards
required by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
adopted under title VI of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85; 1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1519. Brake Fluid.
No person shall sell, offer for sale or distribute brake fluid for use on motor
vehicles for repair purposes unless such fluid conforms to specifications
prescribed by the Illinois Department of Transportation. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1520. Restrictions as to Tire Equipment.
   A.   No metal-tired vehicle, including tractors, motor vehicles of the
second division, traction engines and other similar vehicles, shall be operated
over any improved street of this City if such vehicle has on the periphery of
any of the road wheels any block, stud, flange, cleat, ridge, lug or any
projection of metal or wood which projects radially beyond the tread of traffic
surface of the tire. This prohibition does not apply to pneumatic tires with
metal studs until April 1, 1976, and thereafter this prohibition shall not
apply to pneumatic tires with metal studs used on vehicles operated by rural
letter carriers who are employed or enjoy a contract with the United States
Postal Service for the purpose of delivering mail if such vehicle is actually
used for such purpose during operations between November 15 of any year and
April 1 of the following year or to tract-type motor vehicles when that part of
the vehicle coming in contact with the road surface does not contain any
projections of any kind likely to injure the surface of the road; however,
tractors, traction engines and similar vehicles may be operated which have upon
their road wheels V-shaped, diagonal or other cleats arranged in such a manner
as to be continuously in contact with the road surface; provided, that the
gross weight upon such wheels per inch of width of such cleats in contact with
the road surface, when measured in the direction of the axle of the vehicle,
does not exceed eight hundred (800) pounds. Studded tires may be used between
November 15 of any year and April 1 of the following year until April 1, 1976,
and only on single tire vehicles with a rated capacity of not more than ten
thousand (10,000) pounds' gross vehicle weight on which there are wheelwells or
other items of a similarly protective nature, whether permanently or
temporarily attached thereto.
   B.   All motor vehicles and all other vehicles in tow thereof, or thereunto
attached, operating under any roadway shall have tires of rubber or some
material of equal resiliency. Solid tires shall be considered defective and
shall not be permitted to be used if the rubber or other material has been worn
or otherwise reduced to a thickness of less than three-fourths of an inch (3/
4") or if such tires have been so worn or otherwise damaged as to cause undue
vibration when the vehicle is in motion or to cause undue concentration of the
wheel load on the surface of the road. The requirements of this Section do not
apply to agricultural tractors or traction engines or to agricultural
machinery, including wagons being used for agricultural purposes in tow
thereof, or to road rollers or road building machinery operated at a speed not
in excess of ten (10) miles per hour. All motor vehicles of the second division
operating upon any roadway shall have pneumatic tires unless exempted herein.
   C.   Nothing in this Section shall be deemed to prohibit the use of tire
chains of reasonable proportion upon any vehicle when required for safety
because of snow, ice or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1521. Operating Conditions of Pneumatic Tires.
   A.   "Spare Tire" Defined: The term "spare tire" as used in this Section
means any new, used or specially constructed tire that is either carried or
installed for short term emergency use.
   B.   Rules Promulgated: The Department shall promulgate rules concerning
unsafe operating conditions of pneumatic tires. The rules shall be enforced by
police officers by visual inspection of tires, including visual comparison with
simple measuring scales or gauges. The rules shall include precepts and
standards for determining unsafe conditions, including the determination of an
effective depth of tread groove, and shall be based upon, to the extent that it
is reasonable and practical, all provisions set forth in subsection D of this
Section.
   C.   Use of Unsafe Tire:
      1.   Prohibition: No person or organization shall place, drive or move,
or cause or allow to be placed, driven or moved, on a highway of this City, any
vehicle equipped with one or more pneumatic tires deemed to be unsafe under a
provision of subsection D of this Section or a rule promulgated under
subsection B of this Section.
      2.   Exemptions: Any restriction stated in this subsection C shall not
apply:
         a.   To a tire on a damaged, disabled, abandoned or other unsafe or
unwanted vehicle being legally towed, pushed or otherwise transferred to a
repair, relocation, storage, salvage, junking or other collection site;
         b.   To a tire on a racing or other competitive vehicle being legally
moved or transported, not under its own power, to a lawful competition site or
to a bona fide testing site; or
         c.   To a spare tire either carried or in short term emergency use for
only such distance or time as is reasonably necessary to accomplish the repair
or replacement of the damaged or unsafe tire for which the spare was
substituted.
   D.   Criteria for Unsafe Pneumatic Tires: A pneumatic tire shall be deemed
to be unsafe if it has:
      1.   Any part of a ply or cord exposed;
      2.   A tread or sidewall crack, cut, snag or other surface interruption
deep enough to expose a ply or cord;
      3.   Any bulge, knot or separation;
      4.   Tread wear indicators flush with the tread outer surface in any two
(2) or more adjacent tread grooves at three (3) locations approximately equally
spaced around the circumference of the tire;
      5.   A depth of tread groove less than two thirty-seconds of an inch (2/
32") or less than one thirty-second of an inch (1/32") if on a motorcycle or
truckster, measured in any two (2) or more adjacent tread grooves at three (3)
locations approximately equally spaced around the circumference of the tire, at
least one of which, in the judgment of the inspecting officer, is a location at
which the tread is thinnest; provided, that any measurement over a tie bar,
tread wear indicator, hump or fillet is excluded;
      6.   A depth of tread groove less than four thirty-seconds of an inch (4/
32") at any one location and the tire is mounted on the front wheel of a motor
vehicle subject to the provisions of chapter 18B of the Illinois Vehicle Code;
provided, that any measurement over a tie bar, tread wear indicator, hump or
fillet is excluded;
      7.   A marking which indicates that the tire is not intended for use on a
public highway;
      8.   Been regrooved or recut below the bottom of an original tread
groove, except in the case of a special "regroovable" tire that was
manufactured or retreaded with thick undertread, identified and regrooved in
compliance with the applicable Federal standard in title 49 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, and in compliance with each applicable section of this
Code; or
      9.   Other condition, marking or lack of marking that may be reasonably
demonstrated to identify the tire as unsuitable for highway use, including
inflation, load, speed or installation condition seriously incompatible with
the tire size, construction or other pertinent marking or feature.
   E.   Sale, Lease or Installation of Pneumatic Tires:
      1.   No person or organization shall sell, lease or offer for sale, lease
or mount, install or cause or allow to be mounted or installed, for use on a
highway, any pneumatic tire deemed to be unsafe under subsection D of this
Section or under a rule promulgated under subsection B of this Section. Except
as provided in subsection C of this Section, any person or organization
offering a vehicle for sale or lease shall, prior to its being placed, driven
or moved on a highway, correct any unsafe tire condition.
      2.   No person or organization shall sell, lease or offer for sale or
lease, for highway use, any pneumatic tire, or any vehicle equipped with a
pneumatic tire, which has a depth of tread groove less than two thirty-seconds
of an inch (2/32"); except a pneumatic tire on a motorcycle or truckster may
have a depth of tire groove of not less than two thirty-seconds of an inch (2/
32"). Groove depth shall not be measured where a tie bar, tread wear indicator,
hump or fillet is located.
   F.   Any police officer, upon reasonable cause to believe that a person or
organization has acted or is acting in violation of any provision of this
Section, shall require the driver, owner or other appropriate custodian to
submit the tire or tires to an inspection. When so required, the owner or other
appropriate custodian shall allow the tire inspection and the driver of a
vehicle or combination of vehicles shall stop at a designated location and
allow the tire or tires to be inspected or shall move the vehicle or
combinations to a location that is reasonably convenient and is suitable for
such inspection. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1522. Safety Glazing Material in Motor Vehicles.
   A.   No person shall knowingly sell any 1936 or later model motor vehicle
unless such vehicle is equipped with safety glazing material conforming to
specifications prescribed by the Illinois Department of Transportation wherever
glazing material is used in doors, windows and windshields. These provisions
apply to all motor vehicles of the first and second division, but with respect
to trucks, including truck tractors, the requirements as to safety glazing
material apply to all glazing material used in doors, windows and windshields
in the drivers' compartments of such vehicles.
   B.   It is unlawful for the owner or any other person knowingly to install
or cause to be installed in any motor vehicle any glazing material other than
safety glazing material conforming to the specifications prescribed by the
Illinois Department of Transportation. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1523. Mirrors.
Every motor vehicle, operated singly or when towing another vehicle, shall be
equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the
highway for a distance of at least two hundred feet (200') to the rear of such
motor vehicle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1524. Windshields Unobstructed and Equipped with Wipers.
   A.   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster, window
application, reflecting material, nonreflective material or tinted film upon
the front windshield, sidewings or side windows immediately adjacent to each
side of the driver. A nonreflective tinted film may be used along the uppermost
portion of the windshield if such material does not extend more than six inches
(6") down from the top of the windshield.
   B.   Nothing contained in this Section shall prohibit the use of
nonreflective, smoked or tinted glass; nonreflective film, perforated window
screen or other decorative window application on windows to the rear of the
driver's seat, except that any motor vehicle with a window to the rear of the
driver's seat treated in this manner shall be equipped with a side mirror on
each side of the motor vehicle which are in conformance with Section
15.1523 of this Article.
   C.   No person shall drive a motor vehicle with any objects placed or
suspended between the driver and the front windshield, rear window, side wings
or side windows immediately adjacent to each side of the driver which
materially obstructs the driver's view.
   D.   Every motor vehicle, except motorcycles, shall be equipped with a
device, controlled by the driver, for cleaning rain, snow, moisture or other
obstructions from the windshield; and no person shall drive a motor vehicle
with snow, ice, moisture or other material on any of the windows or mirrors
which materially obstructs the driver's clear view of the highway.
   E.   No person shall drive any motor vehicle when the windshield, side, or
rear windows are in such defective condition or repair as to materially impair
the driver's view to the front, side or rear. A vehicle equipped with a side
mirror on each side of the vehicle which are in conformance with Section
15.1523 will be deemed in compliance in the event the rear window of the
vehicle is materially obscured.
   F.   Subsections A and B of this Section shall not apply to:
      1.   Motor vehicles manufactured prior to January 1, 1982; or
      2.   To those motor vehicles properly registered in another jurisdiction.
   G.   Subsection A of this Section shall not apply to any motor vehicle:
      1.   That is owned and operated by a person afflicted with or suffering
from a medical illness, ailments or disease which would require that person to
be shielded from the direct rays of the sun; or
      2.   That is used in transporting a person when such person resides at
the same address as the registered owner of the vehicle and such person is
afflicted with or suffering from a medical illness, ailment or disease which
would require such person to be shielded from the direct rays of the sun.
It must be certified by a physician licensed to practice medicine in the State
of Illinois that such person owning and operating or being transported in a
motor vehicle is afflicted with or suffers from such illness, ailment or
disease and such certification must be carried in the motor vehicle at all
times. The certification shall be legible and shall contain the date of
issuance, the name, address and signature of the attending physician, and the
name, address and medical condition of the person requiring exemption. The
information on the certificate must remain current and shall be renewed
annually by the attending physician.
   H.   Subsection A of this Section shall not apply to motor vehicle stickers
or other certificates issued by the State or City which are required to be
displayed upon motor vehicle windows to evidence compliance with requirements
concerning motor vehicles.
   J.   A person found guilty of violating subsections A or B of this Section
shall be guilty of a petty offense and fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), a second or subsequent
violation of subsections A or B of this Section shall be treated as a Class C
misdemeanor and fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Any person convicted under subsections A or B
of this Section shall be ordered to alter any nonconforming windows into
compliance with this Section. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85; 1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1525. Horns and Warning Devices.
   A.   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be equipped with
a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sounds audible under
normal conditions from a distance of not less than two hundred feet (200'), but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or a whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
insure safe operation, give audible warning with his horn but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a highway or street.
   B.   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
subsection. Any authorized emergency vehicle as defined in Article I of this
Chapter, may be equipped with a siren, whistle or bell capable of emitting
sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than five
hundred feet (500'), but such siren, whistle or bell shall not be used except
when such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in either of
which events the driver of such vehicle shall sound said siren, whistle or bell
when necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   C.   No bicycle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle any siren or whistle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1526. Mufflers, Prevention of Noise.
   A.   Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon the highways or streets of
this City shall at all times be equipped with an adequate muffler or exhaust
system in constant operation and properly maintained to prevent any excessive
or unusual noise.
   B.   No such muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped with a cutout,
bypass or similar device. No person shall modify the exhaust system of a motor
vehicle or squeal the tires thereof or unnecessarily race his motor while
running idle in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise of such
vehicle above that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle
or above that emitted by tires normally or above that emitted at normal idle.
No person shall use any sound amplifying device, recorded music or radio in or
from any vehicle on any street in such manner as to attract the attention of
person outside of such vehicle to the sounds issuing therefrom, excepting
herefrom persons in vehicles and devices officially used by governmental units
in the exercise of official functions and except as provided elsewhere in this
Municipal Code. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1527. Seat Safety Belts.
   A.   No person shall sell any 1965 or later model motor vehicle of the first
division unless the front seat of such motor vehicle is equipped with two (2)
sets of seat safety belts. Motorcycles are exempted from the provision of this
Section.
   B.   No person shall operate any 1961 or later model motor vehicle of the
first division that is titled or licensed by the Secretary of State unless the
front seat of such motor vehicle is equipped with two (2) sets of seat safety
belts.
   C.   Driver and Passenger Required to Use Safety Belts:
      1.   Each driver and front seat passenger of a motor vehicle operated on
a street or highway in this City shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened
seat safety belt; except that, a child less than six (6) years of age shall be
protected as required pursuant to the Child Passenger Protection Act 1 . Each
driver of a motor vehicle transporting a child six (6) years of age or more,
but less than sixteen (16) years of age, in the front seat of the motor vehicle
shall secure the child in a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt.
      2.   Subsection C1 hereof shall not apply to any of the following:
         a.   A driver or passenger frequently stopping and leaving the vehicle
or delivering property from the vehicle, if the speed of the vehicle between
stops does not exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour.
         b.   A driver or passenger possessing a written statement from a
physician that such person is unable, for medical or physical reasons, to wear
a seat safety belt.
         c.   A driver or passenger possessing an official certificate or
license endorsement issued by the appropriate agency in another state or
country indicating that the driver is unable for medical, physical or other
valid reasons to wear a seat safety belt.
         d.   A driver operating a motor vehicle in reverse.
         e.   A motor vehicle with a model year prior to 1985.
         f.   A motorcycle or motor-driven cycle.
         g.   A motorized pedalcycle.
         h.   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with seat
safety belts under Federal law.
         j.   A motor vehicle operated by a rural letter carrier of the United
States Postal Service while performing duties as a rural letter carrier. (1993
Code)
   D.   A violation of this section shall be a petty offense and subject to a
fine as specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   E.   No motor vehicle, or driver or passenger of such vehicle, shall be
stopped or searched by any law enforcement officer solely on the basis of a
violation or suspected violation of this section. (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
Sec. 15.1528. Television Receivers.
   A.   No motor vehicle operated on the streets of the City shall be equipped
with television-type receiving equipment so located that the viewer or screen
is visible from the driver's seat.
   B.   This section does not prohibit the use of television-type receiving
equipment used exclusively for safety or traffic engineering studies. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1529. Tow Trucks - Identification - Equipment - Insurance.
   A.   Every tow truck, except those owned by governmental agencies, shall
have displayed on each side thereof, a sign with letters not less than two
inches (2") in height, contrasting in color to that of the background, stating
the name, address and telephone number of the owner or operator thereof.
   B.   Every tow truck shall be equipped with:
      1.   One or more brooms and shovels;
      2.   One or more trash cans at least eighteen inches (18") in height; and
      3.   One fire extinguisher of the dry chemical or carbon dioxide type
with an aggregate rating of at least 4-B, C units, and bearing the approval of
a laboratory qualified by the Division of Fire Prevention for this purpose.
   C.   Every owner or operator and driver of a tow truck shall comply with
section 11-1413 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended, and shall remove or
cause to be removed all glass and debris deposited upon any street or highway
by the disabled vehicle being serviced and shall, in addition, spread dirt or
sand upon that portion of any street or highway where oil or grease has been
deposited by the disabled vehicle being serviced.
   D.   Every tow truck operator shall, in addition, file an indemnity bond,
insurance policy or other proof of insurance in a form to be prescribed by the
Secretary of State which shall indemnify or insure the tow truck operator for
his liability: 1) for injury to person, in an amount not less than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) to any one person and three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000.00) for any one accident; 2) in case of damage to property
other than a vehicle being towed, in an amount not less than fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) for any one accident; and 3) in case of damage to any
vehicle towed by the tower in an amount not less than twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) per vehicle. Any such bond or policy shall be issued only
by a bonding or insuring firm authorized to do business as such in the State of
Illinois, and a certificate of such bond or policy shall be in the cab of each
tow truck.
   E.   The policy shall provide that the insurance carrier may cancel it by
serving thirty (30) days' previous notice in writing, either personally or by
registered mail, upon the owner of the motor vehicle and upon the Secretary of
State. Whenever any such policy shall be so cancelled, the Secretary of State
shall mark the policy "Cancelled" and shall require such owner either to
furnish a bond or a new policy of insurance, in accordance with the Illinois
Vehicle Code. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. 1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1530. Suspension System.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle on any street of this
City when the suspension system has been modified from the original
manufactured design by lifting the body from the chassis in excess of three
inches (3") or to cause the horizontal line from the front to the rear bumper
to vary over three inches (3") in height when measured from a level surface of
the street to the lower edge of the bumper.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall prevent the installation of manufactured
heavy duty equipment to include shock absorbers and overhead springs, nor shall
anything contained in this section prevent a person to operate a motor vehicle
on any street of this City with normal wear of the suspension system if normal
wear does not affect the control or safe operation of the vehicle. This
subsection shall not apply to motor vehicles designed or modified primarily for
off-street racing purposes while such vehicles are in tow or to motorcycles or
motor-driven cycles. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1531. Bumpers.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle
weight rating of nine thousand (9,000) pounds or less or any motor vehicle
registered as a recreational vehicle under this chapter on any highway of this
City unless such motor vehicle is equipped with both a front and rear bumper.
Except as indicated below, maximum bumper heights of such motor vehicles shall
be determined by weight category of gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) measured
from a level surface to the highest point of the bottom of the bumper when the
vehicle is unloaded and the tires are inflated to the manufacturer's
recommended pressure.
Maximum bumper heights are as follows:
 
                                                Maximum Front Maximum Rear
                                               Bumper Height Bumper Height
                                                 
All motor vehicles of the first division except 22 inches     22 inches
multi-purpose passenger vehicles                              
Multi-purpose passenger vehicles and all other                
motor vehicles:
4,500 lbs. and under GVWR                          24 inche   26 inches
4,501 lbs. through 7,500 GVWR                      27 inche   29 inches
7,501 lbs. through 9,000 GVWR                      28 inche   30 inches
 
For any vehicle with bumpers or attaching components which have been modified
or altered from the original manufacturer's design in order to conform with the
maximum bumper requirements of this Section, the bumper height shall be
measured from a level surface to the bottom of the vehicle frame rail at the
most forward and rearward points of the frame rail. The bumper on any vehicle
so modified or altered shall be at least four and one-half inches (4.5") in
vertical height and extend no less than the width of the respective wheel
tracts outermost distance.
However, nothing in this Section shall prevent the installation of bumper
guards.
   B.   This Section shall not apply to motor vehicles designed or modified
primarily for off-highway purposes while such vehicles are in tow or to
motorcycles or motor-driven cycles, nor to motor vehicles registered as antique
vehicles when the original design of such vehicles did not include bumpers. The
provisions of this Section shall not apply to any motor vehicle driven during
the first one thousand (1,000) recorded miles of that vehicle, when such
vehicle is owned or operated by a manufacturer, dealer or transporter
displaying a special plate or plates as described in 755 Illinois Compiled
Statutes while such vehicle is 1) being delivered from the manufacturing or
assembly plant directly to the purchasing dealer or distributor, or from one
dealership or distributor to another; 2) being moved by the most direct route
from one location to another for the purpose of installing special bodies or
equipment; or 3) being driven for purposes of demonstration by a prospective
buyer with the dealer or his agent present in the cab of the vehicle during the
demonstration.
The dealer shall, prior to the receipt of any deposit made or any contract
signed by the buyer to secure the purchase of a vehicle, inform such buyer, by
written statement signed by the purchaser to indicate acknowledgment of the
contents thereof, of the legal requirements of this Section regarding front and
rear bumpers if such vehicle is not to be equipped with bumpers at the time of
delivery.
   C.   Any violation of this Section is a Class C misdemeanor. A second
conviction under this Section shall be punishable with a fine of not less than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). An officer making an arrest under this Section
shall order the vehicle driver to remove the vehicle from the highway. A person
convicted under this Section shall be ordered to bring his vehicle into
compliance with this Section. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1532. Disposal of Motor Vehicles Bearing Police Markings.
No official or employee of this City shall sell, trade or otherwise dispose of
any motor vehicle bearing equipment, markings or other indicia of police
authority unless, prior to delivery of the vehicle, the equipment and markings
have been sufficiently altered or obliterated to remove the appearance of such
authority. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1533. Headset Receivers and Sound Amplification Systems.
   A.   No driver of a motor vehicle on the streets and highways of the City
shall wear headset receivers while driving.
   B.   This Section does not prohibit the use of a headset-type receiving
equipment used exclusively for safety or traffic engineering studies or by law
enforcement personnel on duty. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
   C.   This Section does not prohibit the use of any single sided headset type
receiving and transmitting equipment designed to be used in or on one ear which
is used exclusively for providing two-way radio vocal communications by an
individual in possession of a current and valid novice class or higher amateur
radio license issued by the Federal Communications Commission and an amateur
radio operator special registration plate issued under Section
15.1530.
   D.   No driver of any motor vehicle within this City shall operate or permit
operation of any sound amplification system which can be heard outside the
vehicle from seventy five feet (75') or more when the vehicle is being operated
upon a highway, unless such system is being operated to request assistance or
warn of a hazardous situation.
      1.   This subsection D does not apply to authorized emergency vehicles or
vehicles engaged in advertising.
      2.   Every violation of the provisions of this subsection D shall be a
petty offense punishable by a fine not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00). (1993
Code)
Sec. 15.1534. Tractors, Traction Engines and Motor Trucks - Operation on
Highways - Turning on Highways During Farming Operations - Violations.
   A.   No tractor, traction engine, motor truck or other similar vehicle shall
be operated across, over or along any public highway of this City which has
been oil treated if any such vehicle has on the periphery of any of the road
wheels any block, stud, flange, cleat, ridge, lug or any projection of metal or
wood which projects radially beyond the tread or traffic surface of the tire;
except, that this prohibition shall not apply to tractors or traction engines
equipped with what is known as crawler-type tractors when the same does not
contain any projections of any kind likely to injure the surface of the road,
nor to tractors, traction engines and similar vehicles which have upon their
road wheels V-shaped, diagonal or other cleats arranged in such a manner as to
be continuously in contact with the road surface. In no event shall the oil mat
surface of any oil treated public road be used as an area or space for turning
any tractor or other farm machinery in carrying on or performing any farming
operations upon the adjacent land; provided, that nothing in this Section
contained shall prohibit the operation of tractors, traction engines or motor
trucks across any oil-treated roads if there is no untreated portion thereof
over which they may be operated or the operation of any such vehicles on oil-
treated roads if, in passing along said road, they travel over the portion of
said road which does not constitute the oil mat surface created by said oil
treatment or the use of flexible tire chains on any tractor, traction engine,
motor truck or other similar vehicle being operated upon any such oil-treated
road.
   B.   Any person who operates a tractor, traction engine, motor truck or
other similar vehicle over and along any public street of this City which has
been oil treated in violation of the provisions of this Section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be guilty of a petty offense and
shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each such offense. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1535. Certain Vehicles to Carry Flares or Other Warning Devices.
   A.   No person shall operate any motor vehicle of the second division or any
motor vehicle towing a house trailer upon any highway outside an urban district
at any time unless there is carried in such vehicle the following equipment,
except as provided in subsection B of this Section:
      1.   At least three (3) liquid-burning flares, or three (3) red electric
lanterns, or three (3) portable red emergency reflectors, each of which is
capable of being seen and distinguished at a distance of not less than five
hundred feet (500') when lighted lamps are required; provided, that emergency
reflectors meeting the requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard
No. 125 shall be deemed acceptable as regards visibility and color; and
      2.   At least three (3) red-burning, fifteen (15) minute fusees unless
red electric lanterns or portable red emergency reflectors are carried; and
      3.   At least two (2) red, cloth flags, not less than twelve inches (12")
square, with standards to support flags or, in lieu thereof, two (2) portable
emergency reflectors meeting the requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard No. 125.
   B.   No person shall operate, at the time and under the conditions stated in
subsection A of this Section, any motor vehicle used for the transportation of
explosives, any cargo tank truck used for the transportation of flammable
liquids or compressed gases or any motor vehicle using compressed gas as a fuel
unless there is carried in such vehicle three (3) red electric lanterns or
three (3) portable red emergency reflectors meeting the requirements of
subsection A of this Section, and such vehicle shall not carry any flares,
fusees or signals produced by flame.
   C.   Whenever any motor vehicle of the second division or any motor vehicle
towing a house trailer is disabled upon the roadway of any highway or the
shoulder thereof outside an urban district or on any controlled access highway
within an urban district at any time when lighted lamps are required, the
driver of such vehicle shall display the following warning devices upon the
highway during the time the vehicle is so disabled, except as provided in
subsection D of this Section:
      1.   A lighted fusee, a lighted red electric lantern or a portable red
emergency reflector shall be immediately placed at the traffic side of the
vehicle in the direction of the nearest approaching traffic. However, the
driver of such vehicle, upon learning of the disability, may simultaneously
flash the two (2) front and two (2) rear turn signals as a vehicular traffic
warning and continue such flashing until the portable signals have been placed
as required by this Section and during the time such portable emergency signals
are being picked up for storage prior to the movement of the vehicle.
      2.   As soon thereafter as possible, but in any event within the burning
period of the fusees (15 minutes), the driver shall place three (3) liquid-
burning flares or three (3) lighted red electric lanterns or three (3) portable
red emergency reflectors on the roadway or shoulder of the highway in the
following order:
         - One approximately one hundred feet (100') from the disabled vehicle
in the center of the lane or shoulder occupied by such vehicle and toward
traffic approaching in that lane; and
         - One approximately one hundred feet (100') in the opposite direction
from the disabled vehicle and in the center of the traffic lane or shoulder
occupied by such vehicle; and
         - One at the traffic side of the disabled vehicle not less than ten
feet (10') to the rear or forward thereof in the direction of the nearest
approaching traffic. If a lighted red electric lantern or a portable red
emergency reflector has been placed at the traffic side of the vehicle in
accordance with subsection C1 of this Section, it may be used for this purpose.
   D.   Whenever any vehicle referred to in this Section is disabled within
five hundred feet (500') of a curve, hill crest or other obstruction to view,
the warning signal in that direction shall be so placed as to afford ample
warning to other users of the highway, but in no case less than one hundred
feet (100') nor more than five hundred feet (500') from the disabled vehicle.
   E.   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this Section is disabled
upon any roadway or shoulder of a divided highway during the time that lighted
lamps are required, the appropriate warning devices prescribed in subsection A1
and 2 of this Section shall be placed as follows:
      - One at least a distance of approximately two hundred feet (200') from
the vehicle in the center of the lane or shoulder occupied by the stopped
vehicle and in the direction of traffic approaching in that lane; and
      - One at a distance of approximately one hundred feet (100') from the
vehicle in the center of the lane or shoulder occupied by the vehicle and in
the direction of traffic approaching in that lane; and
      - One at the traffic side of the vehicle and approximately ten feet (10')
from the vehicle in the direction of the nearest approaching traffic.
   F.   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this Section is disabled
upon the roadway of any highway or the shoulder thereof outside an urban
district or on any controlled access highway within an urban district at any
time when the display of fusees, flares, red electric lanterns or portable red
emergency reflectors are not required, the driver of the vehicle shall display
two (2) red, cloth flags or two (2) portable emergency reflectors meeting the
requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards No. 125 upon the roadway
or shoulder in the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle in the
following order:
      - One at a distance of approximately one hundred feet (100') in advance
of the vehicle; and
      - One at a distance of approximately one hundred feet (100') in the rear
of the vehicle.
   G.   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this Section is disabled
upon any roadway or shoulder of a divided highway during the time that lighted
lamps are not required, the driver of such vehicle shall display two (2) red,
cloth flags or two (2) portable emergency reflectors meeting the requirements
of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards No. 125 upon the roadway or shoulder
in the center of the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle in the
following order:
      - One at a distance of approximately two hundred feet (200') to the rear
of the vehicle; and
      - One at a distance of approximately one hundred feet (100') to the rear
of the vehicle.
   H.   Whenever any motor vehicle used for the transportation of explosives,
or any cargo tank truck used for the transportation of any flammable liquid or
compressed flammable gas, or any motor vehicle using compressed gas as a fuel
is disabled upon a street in this City at any time or place mentioned in
subsection C of this Section, the driver of such vehicle shall immediately
display three (3) red electric lanterns or portable red emergency reflectors
placed in the following order:
      - One at the traffic side of the vehicle and approximately ten feet (10')
from the vehicle in the direction of the nearest approaching traffic; and
      - One at a distance of approximately one hundred feet (100') to the front
of the disabled vehicle in the center of the lane of traffic or shoulder
occupied by such vehicle; and
      - One at a distance of approximately one hundred feet (100') to the rear
of the disabled vehicle in the center of the lane of traffic or shoulder
occupied by such vehicle. Flares, fusees or signals produced by flame shall not
be used as warning devices for disabled vehicles of the type mentioned in this
subsection.
   J.   The flares, fusees, red electric lanterns, portable red emergency
reflectors and flags to be displayed as required in this Section shall conform
with the requirements of subsections A and B of this Section applicable
thereto. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1536. Road Oil Vehicles - Dripping on Certain Highways Forbidden.
No person shall operate, on a durable all-weather street or highway of a type
other than gravel or crushed stone, any vehicle used for the purpose of
applying road oil, liquid asphalt or similar material to road surfaces unless
such vehicle is so equipped as to absolutely prevent such material from
dripping on such highway, nor shall such material be allowed to drip on any
such street or highway. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1537. Vehicles Transporting Explosives or Radioactive Materials.
   A.   Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosive as a cargo
or part of a cargo upon a street or highway of this City shall at all times
comply with the following provisions of this Section:
      1.   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear
with the word "Explosives" in letters not less than four inches (4") high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
twenty four inches (24") square marked with the word "Danger" in white letters
six inches (6") high.
      2.   Every such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two (2) fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle used.
   B.   Highway vehicles used for transport of packages bearing Radioactive
Yellow-III labels as defined in the Code of Federal Regulations, title 49,
chapter 1, paragraph 173.399(a) must be placarded by the carrier or by the
shipper for sole use vehicles containing full loads of low specific activity
materials. Placards printed "RADIOACTIVE" with black letters four inches (4")
high and five-eighths inch (5/8") wide of stroke on a yellow background must be
applied on the front, rear and on each side of the vehicle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1538. Vehicles Transporting Flammable Liquids When Lights Required -
Marked with Reflectorized Paint.
No person shall operate upon the streets or highways of this City any second
division motor vehicle customarily used in cargo transportation of flammable
liquids or explosives during the hours when lighted lamps are required under
Section 15.1502 of this Chapter unless such vehicle is marked or placarded in
reflectorized paint on each side and rear with the word "Flammable",
"Explosives" or "Gasoline" in letters not less than four inches (4") high;
except, that any vehicle which is required to be placarded pursuant to "An Act
to require labeling of equipment and facilities for the use, transportation,
storage and manufacture of hazardous materials and to provide for a uniform
response system to hazardous materials emergencies", enacted by the 79th
General Assembly 1 , shall be placarded in accordance with the provisions of
that Act. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS 5/700-1 et seq.
Sec. 15.1539. School Buses - Special Requirements.
   A.   Color: The exterior of each school bus shall be painted national school
bus chrome yellow except as follows:
      1.   The fenders of school buses manufactured before January 1, 1976, may
be black.
      2.   Body trim, rub rails and lettering, other than on a stop signal arm
and bumpers on a Type I school bus, shall be glossy black.
      3.   Lettering on a stop signal arm shall be white on a red background.
      4.   Bumpers on a Type II school bus may be glossy black or a bright
finish.
      5.   The hood on a Type I school bus may be lusterless black.
      6.   Grills on a Type II school bus and hubcaps may be a bright finish.
      7.   Name or emblem of a manufacturer may be colorless or any color.
      8.   The following colors shall match the specified color numbers of
Federal Standard No. 595a: National school bus chrome yellow (13432), glossy
black (17038) and lusterless black (37038).
   B.   Identification: Each school bus shall have the sign "SCHOOL BUS"
painted on both the front and rear of the bus as high as practicable in letters
at least eight inches (8") high.
      1.   The rated seating capacity and vehicle weight shall be painted on
the body to the left of the service door in letters at least two inches (2")
high.
      2.   The name of the owner or the entity for which the school bus is
operated or both shall be painted on both sides, centered as high as
practicable below the window line, in letters at least four inches (4") high.
      3.   A school bus identification number shall be painted as high as
practical on both the front and rear of the bus in letters at least four inches
(4") high.
      4.   In complying with the requirements of this subsection, decals may be
used instead of painting.
   C.   Stop Signal Arm: On or before December 31, 1975, each school bus shall
be equipped with a stop signal arm on the driver's side of the school bus which
may be operated either manually or mechanically.
      1.   The arm shall be a hexagon shaped semaphore, approximately eighteen
inches (18") wide and eighteen inches (18") long and of 16-gauge metal.
      2.   "STOP" shall be painted on both sides in white letters at least six
inches (6") high with a brush stroke approximately seven-eighths inch (7/8")
wide and on a red background approximately eight inches by sixteen inches (8" x
16").
      3.   In complying with the requirements of this Section, decals may be
used instead of painting.
      4.   The remaining area of the stop signal arm shall be painted white and
shall either be reflectorized or shall have two (2) double faced lamps with
plain, red lens approximately four inches (4") in diameter located one at the
topmost and one at the bottommost position of the arm. Such lamps shall light
and flash when the arm is extended and shall turn off and stop flashing when
the arm is closed.
   D.   Other Vehicles - Color, Stop Signal Arm and Identification: No vehicle,
other than a school bus, shall be painted national school bus chrome yellow,
shall be identified with the sign "SCHOOL BUS", shall be equipped with a stop
signal arm or shall be equipped with a warning lamp system as described in this
Section and Section
15.1514.
   E.   Special Lighting Equipment: Each school bus purchased as a new vehicle
after December 31, 1975, shall be equipped with an eight- lamp flashing signal
system.
Until December 31, 1978, all other school buses shall be equipped with either a
four-lamp or an eight-lamp flashing signal system. After December 31, 1978, all
school buses shall be equipped with an eight-lamp flashing signal system.
      1.   A four-lamp flashing signal system shall have two (2) alternately
flashing red lamps mounted as high and as widely spaced laterally on the same
level as practicable at the front of the school bus and two (2) such lamps
mounted in the same manner at the rear.
      2.   An eight-lamp flashing signal system shall have, in addition to a
four-lamp system, four (4) alternately flashing amber lamps. Each amber lamp
shall be mounted next to a red lamp and at the same level but closer to the
center line of the school bus.
      3.   Each signal lamp shall be a sealed beam at least five and one- half
inches (51/2") in diameter and shall have sufficient intensity to be visible at
five hundred feet (500') in normal sunlight. Both the four-lamp and eight-lamp
system shall be actuated only by means of a manual switch. There shall be a
device for indicating to the driver that the system is operating properly or is
inoperative.
   F.   Identification, Stop Signal Arms and Special Lighting When Not Used As
a School Bus: Whenever a school bus is operated for the purpose of transporting
passengers other than persons in connection with an activity of the entity
which owns the school bus or for which the school bus is operated, the "SCHOOL
BUS" signs shall be covered or concealed and the stop signal arm and flashing
signal system shall not be operable through normal controls.
   G.   Seat Belt for Driver: Each school bus shall be equipped with a
retractable lap belt assembly for the driver's seat. No school bus shall be
operated unless the driver has properly restrained himself with the lap belt
assembly.
   H.   Fire Extinguisher: Each school bus shall be equipped with at least one
dry chemical gauge-type fire extinguisher mounted in the extinguisher
manufacturer's automobile type bracket in a position readily accessible to the
driver.
   J.   First Aid Kit: Each school bus shall be equipped with a first aid kit
mounted in full view of and readily accessible to the driver.
   K.   Restraining Devices for Handicapped Passengers: Each school bus which
is operated for transporting handicapped passengers shall be equipped with an
appropriate restraining or safety device for each handicapped passenger.
   L.   Liability Insurance: No school bus or motor vehicle owned by or used
for hire by and in connection with the operation of private or public schools,
day camps, summer camps or nursery schools shall be operated for such purposes
unless the owner thereof shall carry a minimum of personal injury liability
insurance in the amount of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for any
one person in any one accident, and subject to said limit for one person, one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for two (2) or more persons injured by
reason of the operation of said vehicle in any one accident.
   M.   Strobe Lamp on School Bus:
      1.   A school bus may be equipped with one strobe lamp that will emit
sixty to one hundred twenty (60–120) flashes per minute of white or bluish-
white light visible to a motorist approaching the bus from any direction. The
lamp shall be of sufficient brightness to be visible in normal sunlight when
viewed directly from a distance of at least one mile.
      2.   The strobe lamp shall be mounted on the rooftop of the bus with the
light-generating element in the lamp located equidistant from each side and
either at or behind the center of the rooftop. The maximum height of the
element above the rooftop shall not exceed one-thirtieth (1/30) of its distance
from the rear of the rooftop. If the structure of the strobe lamp obscures the
light- generating element, the element shall be deemed to be in the center of
the lamp with a maximum height of one-fourth inch (1/4") less than the maximum
height of the strobe lamp unless otherwise indicated in rules and regulations
promulgated by the Illinois Department of Transportation. The Illinois
Department of Transportation may promulgate rules and regulations to govern
measurements, glare, effectiveness and protection of strobe lamps on school
buses, including higher strobe lamps than authorized in this subparagraph.
      3.   The strobe lamp may be lighted only when atmospheric conditions so
severely restrict visibility of bus lamps and signals as to require the bright
strobe lamp to alert motorists to the presence of a school bus. No strobe lamp
may be lighted unless the school bus is actually being used as a school bus
and:
         a.   Is stopping or stopped for loading or discharging pupils on a
highway; or
         b.   Is bearing one or more pupils and is either stopped or, in the
interest of safety, is moving very slowly at a speed:
            (1)   less than the posted minimum speed limit or
            (2)   less than thirty (30) miles per hour on a highway. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1540. Slow-Moving Vehicle Emblem.
   A.   Every animal-drawn vehicle, farm tractor, implement of husbandry and
special mobile equipment, when operated on a street, must display a slow-moving
vehicle emblem mounted on the rear except as provided in subsection B of this
Section. Special mobile equipment is exempt when operated within limits of a
construction or maintenance project where traffic-control devices are used in
compliance with the applicable provisions of the manual and specifications
adopted under section 11-301 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   B.   Every vehicle or unit described in subsection A of this Section, when
operated in combination on a street, must display a slow-moving emblem as
follows:
      1.   Where the towed unit or any load thereon partially or totally
obscures the slow-moving vehicle emblem on the towing unit, the towed unit
shall be equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem. In such cases, the towing
unit need not display the emblem.
      2.   Where the slow-moving vehicle emblem on the towing unit is not
obscured by the towed unit or its load, then either or both may be equipped
with the required emblem, but it shall be sufficient if either displays it.
      3.   A registered truck towed behind a farm tractor in conformity with
provisions of Section
15.1418 of this Chapter must display a slow-moving vehicle emblem in the manner
provided in subsection C while being towed on a street if the emblem on the
towing vehicle is partially or totally obscured.
   C.   The slow-moving vehicle emblem required by subsections A and B of this
Section must meet the specifications and mounting requirements established by
the Illinois Department of Transportation. Such specifications and mounting
requirements shall be based on the specifications adopted by the American
Society of Agricultural Engineers and published by that body as ASAE S 176.2
dated March 1968. No advertising or other marking shall appear upon the emblem.
   D.   A slow-moving vehicle emblem is intended as a safety identification
device and shall not be displayed on any vehicle nor displayed in any manner
other than as described in subsections A, B and C of this Section. (Ord. 1312,
9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1541. Rear Fender Splash Guards.
It is unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle of the second
division, except a truck tractor, to which this Section is applicable upon the
streets or highways of this City unless such vehicle is equipped with rear
fender splash guards of either the contour type or the flap type which comply
with the specifications provided in this Section for the type of splash guards
used on the vehicle, and which are so attached as to prevent the splashing of
mud or water upon the windshield of other motor vehicles.
   A.   Specifications for Contour Type Splash Guards: When contour- type rear
fender splash guards are used, they shall contour the wheel in such a manner
that the relationship of the inside surface of any such splash guard to the
tread surface of the tire or wheel shall be relatively parallel, both laterally
and across the wheel, at least throughout the top ninety degrees (90°) of the
rear one hundred eighty degrees (180°) of the wheel surface; provided, however,
on vehicles which have a clearance of less than five inches (5") between the
top of the tire or wheel and that part of the body of the vehicle directly
above the tire or wheel when the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity,
the curve portion of the splash guard need only extend from a point directly
behind the center of the rear axle and to the rear of the wheel surface upwards
to within at least two inches (2") of the bottom line of the body when the
vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity. There shall be a downward
extension of the curved surface which shall end not more than twelve inches
(12") from the ground when the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity.
This downward extension shall be part of the curved surface or attached
directly to such curved surface, but it need not contour the wheel. Such
contour-type splash guards shall be wide enough to cover the full tread width
of the tire or tires being protected and shall be installed not more than six
inches (6") from the tread surface of the tire or wheel when the vehicle is
loaded to maximum legal capacity. The splash guard shall have a lip or flange
on its outside edge to minimize side throw and splash. The lip or flange shall
extend toward the center of the wheel and shall be perpendicular to and extend
toward the center of the wheel and shall be perpendicular to and extend not
less than two inches (2") below the inside or bottom surface line or place of
the guard. Such contour-type splash guards may be constructed of either a rigid
or flexible material, but shall be attached in such a manner that, regardless
of movement either by the splash guards or the vehicle, the splash guards will
retain their general parallel relationship to the tread surface of the tire or
wheel under all ordinary operating conditions.
   B.   Specifications for Flap-Type Splash Guards: When flap-type splash
guards are used, they shall be wide enough to cover the full tread width of the
tire or tires being protected, shall be so installed that they extend from the
underside of the vehicle in a vertical plane behind the rear wheels to within
twelve inches (12") of the ground when the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal
capacity, shall be so constructed and attached so that, when the vehicle is in
forward motion, such splash guard will not deviate or move backward from the
vertical plane by an angle of more than thirty degrees (30°) measured from the
vertical plane and so that, when the forward motion of the vehicle causes such
splash guard to deviate from the vertical plane, the bottom of such flap-type
splash guard will not be more than fifteen inches (15") from the ground when
the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity. Such flap-type splash guard
may be constructed of either a rigid or flexible material.
   C.   Exemptions: This Section shall not apply to vehicles the construction
of design of which does not require such splash guards nor to vehicles in-
transit and capable only of using temporary splash guards prescribed by the
Illinois Department of Transportation nor to pole trailers. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1542. Special Regulations for Religious Organization Buses.
   A.   Each religious organization bus may be of any color and have any
markings designating its purpose other than those required for school buses
under Section
15.1543.
   B.   Any religious organization bus may be equipped with a four- lamp
flashing signal system having unison flashing amber lamps, two (2) at the front
and two (2) at the rear of the bus, mounted as high and as widely spaced
laterally on the same level as is practicable. If such equipment is installed:
      1.   Each lamp must be a sealed beam at least five and one-half inches
(51/2") in diameter and have sufficient intensity to be visible at five hundred
feet (500') in normal sunlight;
      2.   The system shall be actuated only by means of a manual switch; and
      3.   There shall be a device for indicating to the driver that the system
is operating properly or is inoperative. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1543. Vehicle Passenger Capacity.
No school bus, commuter van or motor vehicle owned by or used for hire by and
in connection with the operation of private or public schools, day camps,
summer camps or nursery schools or in charger operations shall be operated if
it is occupied by more passengers than recommended by the manufacturer thereof
if the vehicle is manufactured as a passenger vehicle; if the vehicle is
manufactured for use other than passenger, then it shall not accommodate more
passengers than provided for by the manufacturer in passenger vehicles of like
style or rating. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1544. Operator Protective Frames on Tractor-Mower Combinations.
No tractor unit over sixteen (16) engine horsepower designed for mowing or
tractor-mower combination unit over sixteen (16) engine horsepower owned or
leased by the Department of Transportation or the City shall be operated for
the purpose of mowing vegetation on highway right of way unless the tractor of
such unit is equipped with an operator protective frame conforming to the
specifications prescribed by regulations under the United States Occupational
Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, and with a seat safety belt.
   A.   The operator protective frame may be incorporated into a cab, which
design shall conform to the specifications established by the United States
Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended.
   B.   The seat safety belt must meet the requirements provided in section 12-
603 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
ARTICLE XVI
BICYCLES
SECTION:
15.1601. Application of Rules
15.1602. Traffic Laws Apply to Persons Riding Bicycles
15.1603. Riding on Bicycles
15.1604. Clinging to Vehicles
15.1605. Position of Bicycles and Motorized Pedalcycles on Roadway (Riding on
Roadways and Bicycle Paths)
15.1606. Riding Bicycles or Motorized Pedalcycles on Roadways
15.1607. Carrying Articles
15.1608. Lamps and Other Equipment on Bicycles
15.1609. License Required
15.1610. License Application
15.1611. Issuance of License
15.1612. Transfer of Ownership
15.1613. Rental Agencies
15.1614. Bicycle Identifying Number
15.1615. Inspecting Bicycles
15.1616. Left Turns
15.1617. Turn and Stop Signals
15.1618. Bicycles on Sidewalks
15.1619. Bicycle Parking
15.1620. Bicycle Racing
15.1621. Use of Sirens Prohibited
15.1622. Penalties
Sec. 15.1601. Application of Rules.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this Article.
   B.   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle
is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1602. Traffic Laws Apply to Persons Riding Bicycles.
Every person riding a bicycle upon a street or highway shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver
of a vehicle by this Chapter, except as to special regulations in this Article
and except as to those provisions of this Chapter which by their nature can
have no application. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1603. Riding on Bicycles.
   A.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped; except, that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his person in a backpack or sling. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1604. Clinging to Vehicles.
No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle
shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway. (Ord. 1312, 9-
5-85)
Sec. 15.1605. Position of Bicycles and Motorized Pedalcycles on Roadway (Riding
on Roadways and Bicycle Paths).
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a roadway
at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall ride as close as practicable to the right-hand
curb or edge of the roadway except under the following situations:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another bicycle, motorized pedalcycle or
vehicle proceeding in the same direction; or
      2.   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway; or
      3.   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, bicycles,
motorized pedalcycles, pedestrians, animals, surface hazards or substandard
width lanes that make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge.
For purposes of this subsection, a "substandard width lane" means a lane that
is too narrow for a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle and a vehicle to travel
safely side by side within the lane.
   B.   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a one-way
highway with two (2) or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-
hand curb or edge of such roadway as practicable.
   C.   Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided, adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1606. Riding Bicycles or Motorized Pedalcycles on Roadways.
Persons riding bicycles or motorized pedalcycles upon a roadway shall not ride
more than two (2) abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for
their exclusive use. Persons riding two (2) abreast shall not impede the normal
and reasonable movement of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a
single lane subject to the provisions of Section
15.1605. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1607. Carrying Articles.
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article which
prevents the use of both hands in control and operation of the bicycle. A
person operating a bicycle shall keep at least one hand on the handlebars at
all times. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1608. Lamps and Other Equipment on Bicycles.
   A.   Every bicycle and pedalcycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type approved by the Illinois Department of
Transportation which shall be visible from all distances from one hundred feet
to six hundred feet (100' – 600') to the rear when directly in front of lawful
lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in
addition to the red reflector.
   B.   A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle any siren.
   C.   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle.
   D.   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflector conforming to specifications prescribed by the
Illinois Department of Transportation on each pedal, visible from the front and
rear of the bicycle during darkness from a distance of two hundred feet (200').
   E.   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. Such reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of five hundred feet (500') and shall be red to
the rear of the center of the bicycle and amber to the front of the center of
the bicycle; provided, the requirements of this subsection may be met by
reflective materials which shall be at least three-sixteenths of an inch (3/
16") wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate as clearly as possible
the continuous circular shape and size of the tires or rims of such bicycle and
which reflective materials may be of the same color on both the front and rear
tire or rim. Such reflectors shall conform to specifications prescribed by the
Illinois Department of Transportation.
   F.   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless, front-facing reflector. (Ord. 1312, 9-
5-85)
   G.   Every motorized pedalcycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped
with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front, and with a red reflector on
the rear of a type approved by the Department which shall be visible from all
distances from one hundred feet (100') to six hundred feet (600') to the rear
when in front of lawful, low-powered beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A
lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500')
to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1609. License Required.
No person who resides within the City shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any
street or upon any public way within the City unless such bicycle has been
licensed and a license plate or sticker is attached thereto as provided herein.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1610. License Application.
Application for a bicycle license and a license plate or sticker shall be made
upon a form provided by the City and shall be made to the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1611. Issuance of License.
   A.   The Chief of Police, upon receiving proper application therefor, is
authorized to issue a bicycle license without charge which shall be effective
until the next succeeding May 1.
   B.   The Chief of Police, or other person assigned such responsibility by
the Chief of Police, shall not issue a license for any bicycle when he knows or
has reasonable grounds to believe that the applicant is not the owner or
entitled to possession of such bicycle.
   C.   The Chief of Police, or other person assigned such responsibility by
the Chief of Police, shall inspect each bicycle before licensing the same and
shall refuse a license for any bicycle when he determines it is in unsafe
mechanical condition, or when the bicycle is not properly equipped in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   D.   The Chief of Police shall keep a record of the number of each license,
the date issued, the name and address of the person to whom issued and the
number on the frame of the bicycle for which issued.
   E.   The Chief of Police upon issuing a bicycle license shall also issue a
license plate or sticker bearing the license number assigned to the bicycle,
the name "WOOD DALE" and the period for which issued and such plate or sticker
shall be firmly attached to the bicycle in such position as to be plainly
visible from the rear. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1612. Transfer of Ownership.
Bicycle licenses are not transferable. Upon the sale or transfer of a licensed
bicycle the licensee shall notify the Chief of Police of same. The purchaser or
transferee, if he resides within the City, shall make application for a new
license as provided herein. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1613. Rental Agencies.
A rental agency shall not rent or offer any bicycle for rent unless the bicycle
is licensed and a license plate or sticker is attached thereto as provided
herein, and such bicycle is equipped in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1614. Bicycle Identifying Number.
A person engaged in the business of selling bicycles at retail shall not sell
any bicycle unless the bicycle has an identifying number permanently stamped or
cast on its frame. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-85)
Sec. 15.1615. Inspecting Bicycles.
A uniformed police officer may at any time, upon reasonable cause to believe
that a bicycle is unsafe or not equipped as required by law or that its
equipment is not in proper adjustment or repair, require the person riding the
bicycle to stop and submit the bicycle to an inspection and such test with
reference thereto as may be appropriate. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1616. Left Turns.
   A.   A person riding a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle intending to turn
left shall follow a course described in subsection B of this section. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-1985)
   B.   A person riding a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle intending to turn
left shall approach the turn as close as practicable to the right curb or edge
of the roadway. After proceeding across the intersecting roadway to the far
corner of the curb or intersection of the roadway edges, the bicyclist or
motorized pedalcycle driver shall stop, as much as practicable, out of the way
of traffic. After stopping, the person shall yield to any traffic proceeding in
either direction along the roadway such person had been using. After yielding,
the bicycle or motorized pedalcycle driver shall comply with any official
traffic-control device or police officer regulating traffic on the highway
along which he intends to proceed, and the bicyclist or motorized pedalcycle
driver may proceed in the new direction.
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the Department of
Transportation and the City, in their respective jurisdictions, may cause
official traffic-control devices to be placed and thereby require and direct
that a specific course be traveled by turning bicycles and motorized
pedalcycles, and when such devices are so placed, no person shall turn a
bicycle or motorized pedalcycle other than as directed and required by such
devices. (1993 Code)
Sec. 15.1617. Turn And Stop Signals.
   A.   Except as provided in this section, a person riding a bicycle shall
comply with section 15.804 of this chapter.
   B.   A signal of intention to turn right or left, when required, shall be
given during not less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the
bicycle before turning and shall be given while the bicycle is stopped waiting
to turn. A signal by hand and arm need not be given continuously if the hand is
needed in the control or operation of the bicycle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1618. Bicycles On Sidewalks.
   A.   A person propelling a bicycle upon and along a sidewalk, or across a
roadway upon and along a crosswalk, shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing such
pedestrian.
   B.   A person shall not ride a bicycle upon and along a sidewalk, or across
a roadway upon and along a crosswalk, where such use of bicycles is prohibited
by official traffic-control devices.
   C.   A person propelling a bicycle upon and along a sidewalk, or across a
roadway upon and along a crosswalk, shall have all the rights and duties
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1619. Bicycle Parking.
   A.   A person may park a bicycle on a sidewalk unless prohibited or
restricted by an official traffic-control device.
   B.   A bicycle parked on a sidewalk shall not impede the normal and
reasonable movement of pedestrian or other traffic.
   C.   A bicycle may be parked on the roadway at any angle to the curb or edge
of the roadway at any location where parking is allowed.
   D.   A bicycle may be parked on the roadway abreast of another bicycle or
bicycles near the side of the roadway at any location where parking is allowed.
   E.   A person shall not park a bicycle on a roadway in such a manner as to
obstruct the movements of a legally parked motor vehicle.
   F.   In all other respects, bicycles parked anywhere on a highway shall
conform with the provisions of this chapter regulating the parking of vehicles.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1620. Bicycle Racing.
   A.   Bicycle racing on a highway shall not be unlawful when a racing event
has been approved by State or local authorities on any highway under their
respective jurisdictions. Approval of bicycle highway racing events shall be
granted only under conditions which assure reasonable safety for all race
participants, spectators and other highway users and which prevent unreasonable
interference with traffic flow which would seriously inconvenience other
highway users.
   B.   By agreement with the approving authority, participants in an approved
bicycle highway racing event may be exempted from compliance with any traffic
laws otherwise applicable thereto; provided, that traffic control is adequate
to assure the safety of all highway users. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1621. Use Of Sirens Prohibited.
No bicycle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle any
siren or whistle. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1622. Penalties.
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this article shall be
punished by a fine as specified in the master fee schedule and/or by suspension
of the bicycle license for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days. (Ord. O-18-
024, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE XVII
WEIGHT AND LOAD
SECTION:
15.1701. Scope And Effect
15.1702. Width Of Vehicles
15.1703. Height Of Vehicle
15.1704. Second Division Vehicles; Name And Address Of Owner And Certificate Or
Permit Number
15.1705. Projecting Loads On Passenger Vehicles
15.1706. Protruding Members Of Vehicles
15.1707. Length Of Vehicle
15.1708. Planking Edge Of A Pavement
15.1709. Spilling Loads On Highways Prohibited
15.1710. Towed Vehicles
15.1711. Load Limitations On Certain City Streets
15.1712. Special Permits For Trucks Having A Size Or Weight In Excess Of
Statutory Maximums
15.1713. Covers Or Tarpaulins Required For Certain Loads
15.1714. Business Offense; Penalty
Sec. 15.1701. Scope And Effect.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move on, upon or across or
for the owner to cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on, upon or
across any highway any vehicle or vehicles of a size and weight exceeding the
limitations stated in this article or otherwise in violation of this article,
and the maximum size and weight of the vehicles herein specified shall be
lawful throughout this city.
   B.   The provisions of this article governing size, weight and load do not
apply to fire apparatus or equipment for snow and ice removal operations owned
or operated by the city, or to implements of husbandry temporarily operated or
towed in a combination upon a highway, provided such combination does not
consist of more than three (3) vehicles or, in the case of hauling fresh,
perishable fruits or vegetables from farm to the point of first processing, not
more than three (3) wagons being towed by an implement of husbandry, or to a
vehicle operated under the terms of a special permit issued under this article.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1702. Width Of Vehicles.
The maximum width of any vehicle, except as provided in subsection
15.1701B of this article and wherever the provisions of this article regarding
limitations concerning loads are applicable, and its load shall not exceed
eight feet (8') with the following additional exceptions:
   A.   Loads of unbaled hay or straw or other similar farm products or
implements of husbandry being transported during the period from sunrise to
sunset;
   B.   Portable buildings not more than fourteen feet (14') wide and with not
more than one foot (1') overhang along the left side of the hauling vehicle
designed and used for agricultural and livestock raising operations which are
being transported not more than ten (10) miles on any route not part of the
national system of interstate and defense highways during the period from
sunrise to sunset and on which are mounted at least two (2) red, cloth flags,
at least twelve inches (12") square; provided, that a state police trooper
shall escort the hauling vehicle when it is using any part of the left hand
lane when crossing a two (2) lane bridge;
   C.   Vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley
wires operated wholly within the corporate limits of the city;
   D.   Vehicles designed for the carrying of more than ten (10) persons and
operated wholly within the limits of the city may be nine feet (9') in width;
except, that no such vehicle more than eight feet eight inches (8'8") in width
shall be operated on any route of the national system of interstate and defense
highways;
   E.   Vehicles designed for the carrying of more than ten (10) persons may be
up to one hundred two inches (102") in width; provided, that such vehicles are
not allowed to operate on country highways or township roads and that such
vehicles are:
      1.   Operated by or for any public body authorized by law to provide
public transportation services; or
      2.   Operated in local public transportation services by any other person
and the city approved the operation of such vehicles.
   F.   Mirrors may project up to six inches (6") beyond each side of a
vehicle, and such projection shall not be deemed a violation of the above width
restrictions in this section. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1703. Height Of Vehicle.
The height of a vehicle from the underside of the tire to the top of the
vehicle, inclusive of load, shall not exceed thirteen feet six inches (13'6").
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1704. Second Division Vehicles; Name And Address Of Owner And
Certificate Or Permit Number.
   A.   No second division vehicle, other than a second division vehicle having
a gross weight of eight thousand (8,000) pounds or less which is used by the
owner or a member of his immediate family solely for personal use, other than
farm tractors, farm machinery and implements, farm wagons, wagon trailers or
like vehicles used primarily in agricultural pursuits, vehicles licensed by the
secretary of state as a recreational vehicle and all vehicles registered in
another state which, if titled in the state of Illinois, would qualify for such
recreational plate, house trailers, trailers designed to carry a single
watercraft or vehicles owned by licensed vehicle dealers and manufacturers
while used for demonstration or delivery purposes, may be operated upon the
highways of this city unless there is painted or otherwise firmly affixed to
the vehicle on both sides thereof, in a color or colors vividly contrasting to
the color of the vehicle, the name and address of the owner and the certificate
or permit number of the vehicle, if any.
   B.   The size of the letters must be at least two inches (2") high and the
stroke of the brush must be at least one-half inch (1/2") wide.
   C.   The department may, upon application, waive the requirements of the
address on such a vehicle when there is painted or otherwise firmly affixed to
the vehicle a seal or trademark sufficiently well known to clearly identify the
owner of the vehicle.
Any person acquiring a second division vehicle bearing the name, trademark or
other identification of the previous owner shall obliterate such name,
trademark or other identification. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1705. Projecting Loads On Passenger Vehicles.
No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on any street with any load carried
thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of such
vehicle nor extending more than six inches (6") beyond the line of the fenders
on the right side thereof. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1706. Protruding Members Of Vehicles.
No vehicle with book, arm, drill rig or other protruding component shall be
operated upon the highway unless such protruding component is fastened so as to
prevent shifting, bouncing or moving in any manner. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1707. Length Of Vehicle.
   A.   Unless otherwise provided for in the "Illinois Vehicle Code", no single
vehicle, with or without load, other than a semitrailer that is not a house
trailer, shall exceed an overall length of forty two feet (42').
   B.   Subject to the provisions of subsection F of this section, and unless
otherwise provided in the "Illinois Vehicle Code", no truck tractor and
semitrailer, unladen or with load, except a semitrailer other than a house
trailer, shall exceed a length of fifty five feet (55') extreme overall
dimension; except, that such combination, when specially designed to transport
motor vehicles, may have a length of sixty feet (60') extreme overall
dimension, subject to those exceptions and special rules otherwise stated in
the "Illinois Vehicle Code". No other combination of vehicles, unladen or with
load, shall exceed a length of sixty feet (60') extreme overall dimension.
   C.   A truck tractor semitrailer may draw one trailer or may draw one
vehicle which is special mobile equipment if the extreme length of such
combination does not exceed sixty feet (60'), and a truck in transit may draw
three (3) trucks in transit coupled together by the triple saddlemount method.
Except as otherwise provided, no other combinations of vehicles coupled
together shall consist of more than two (2) vehicles. For the purposes of this
subsection, a "tow dolly" which merely serves as substitute wheels for another
legally licensed vehicle will be considered part of the vehicle and not as a
separate vehicle.
Vehicles in combination, whether being operated intrastate or interstate, shall
be operated and towed in compliance with all requirements of federal highway
administration, title 49, CFR, motor carrier safety regulations, pertaining to
coupling devices and towing methods and all other equipment safety requirements
set forth in said regulations.
   D.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of the "Illinois Vehicle Code",
there is no overall length limitation on motor vehicles operating in truck
tractor semitrailer or truck tractor semitrailer combinations; except, that
"maxicube" combinations, as defined in this section, a truck in transit
transporting three (3) trucks coupled together by the triple saddlemount
method, and a combination of vehicles specifically designed to transport motor
vehicles or boats, shall not exceed sixty five feet (65') overall length, and
provided, that a stinger steered combination of vehicles specifically designed
to transport motor vehicles or boats shall not exceed seventy five feet (75')
overall length, with such length limitations inclusive of front and rear
bumpers but exclusive of the overhang of the transported vehicles as provided
for in subsection J of this section upon the national system of interstate and
defense highways or any other highways in the system of state highways that
have been designated class I highways by the department of transportation or
any street or highway designated by local authorities; provided, that the
length of the semitrailer unit, unladen or with load, operated in a truck
tractor semitrailer combination shall not exceed fifty three feet (53'), and
the distance between the kingpin and the center of the rear axle of a
semitrailer longer than forty eight feet (48') shall not exceed forty two feet
six inches (42' 6"), and provided, that the length of any semitrailer or
trailer, unladen or with load, operated in a truck tractor semitrailer trailer
combination shall not exceed twenty eight feet six inches (28' 6").
The length limitations described in this subsection shall be exclusive of
safety and energy conservation devices such as rear view mirrors, turn signals,
marker lamps, steps and handholds for entry and egress, flexible fender
extensions, bumpers, mudflaps and splash and spray suppressant devices, load
induced tire bulge, refrigeration units or air compressors and other devices
which the department of transportation may interpret as necessary for safe and
efficient operation; except, that no device excluded under this paragraph shall
have, by its design or use, the capability to carry cargo.
Vehicles operating under this subsection shall have access for a distance of
five (5) highway miles on a street or highway in the system of state highways
and upon any street or highway designated by local authorities to points of
loading and unloading and facilities for food, fuel, repairs and rest.
Household goods carriers shall have access to points of loading and unloading.
For purposes of this section, a "maxicube" vehicle shall be defined as a
combination of vehicles consisting of a truck tractor upon which is mounted a
separable cargo carrying semitrailer and a trailing unit which is attached by a
pintle hook or similar connection with the separable cargo carrying semitrailer
designed so as to be loaded and unloaded through the trailing unit; except,
that the entire combination shall not exceed sixty five feet (65') in length
and that neither the semitrailer nor the trailing unit in such combination
shall by itself exceed thirty four feet (34') in length.
Section 5 of the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act 1  relating to
procedures for rulemaking shall not apply to the designation of highways under
this subsection.
   E.   In addition to the designation of highways under subsection D of this
Section, the Department of Transportation may designate other streets or
highways in the system of State highways as Class II highways upon which a
truck tractor semi-trailer trailer combination may be operated; provided, that
the wheelbase between the front axle and rear axle shall not exceed sixty five
feet (65'), and the length of any semi-trailer or trailer, unladen or with
load, in such a combination shall not exceed twenty eight feet six inches (28'
6"). Local authorities may also, by ordinance or resolution, allow the length
limitations of this subsection.
A maxi-cube combination, a truck in transit transporting three (3) trucks
coupled together by the triple saddlemount method and a combination of vehicles
specifically designed to transport motor vehicles or boats may operate on said
designated streets or highways; provided the overall length shall not exceed
sixty five feet (65'), and provided, that a stinger steered combination of
vehicles specifically designed to transport motor vehicles or boats shall not
exceed seventy five feet (75') overall length,with such length limitations
inclusive of front and rear bumpers but exclusive of the overhang of the
transported vehicles as provided for in subsection I of this Section.
The length limitations described in this subsection shall be exclusive of
safety and energy conservation devices such as rear view mirrors, turn signals,
marker lamps, steps and handholds for entry and egress, flexible fender
extensions, bumpers, mudflaps and splash and spray suppressant devices, load-
induced tire bulge, refrigeration units or air compressors and other devices
which the Department of Transportation may interpret as necessary for safe and
efficient operation; except that no device excluded under this paragraph shall
have, by its design or use, the capability to carry cargo.
Vehicles operating under this subsection shall have access for a distance of
five (5) highway miles on a street or highway in the system of State highways
and upon any street or highway designated by local authorities to points of
loading and unloading and to facilities for food, fuel, repairs and rest.
Household goods carriers shall have access to points of loading and unloading.
Section 5 of the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act 2  relating to
procedures for rulemaking shall not apply to the designation of highways under
this subsection.
   F.   On any street or highway in the system of State highways that has not
been designated by the Department of Transportation under subsection D of this
Section, the wheelbase between the front axle and the rear axle in a truck
tractor semi-trailer combination shall not exceed fifty five feet (55'), the
length of the semi-trailer, unladen or with load, shall not exceed fifty three
feet (53') and the distance between the kingpin and the center of the rear axle
of a semi-trailer longer than forty eight feet (48') shall not exceed forty two
feet six inches (42' 6"). On any street or highway in the State system of
highways that has not been designated by the Department of Transportation under
subsection D or E of this Section, no truck tractor semi-trailer trailer
combination shall exceed a length of sixty feet (60') extreme overall
dimension.
   G.   Length limitations in the preceding subsections of this Section shall
not apply to vehicles operated in the daytime, except on Saturdays, Sundays or
legal holidays, when transporting poles, pipe, machinery or other objects of a
structural nature which cannot readily be dismembered nor to vehicles
transporting such objects operated on Saturdays, Sundays or legal holidays or
at nighttime by a public utility when required for emergency repair of public
service facilities or properties, but in respect to such night operation, every
such vehicle and the load thereon shall be equipped with a sufficient number of
clearance lamps on both sides and marker lamps upon the extreme ends of any
projecting load to clearly mark the dimensions of such load; provided, that the
overall length of vehicle and load shall not exceed one hundred feet (100'),
and no such object exceeding eighty feet (80') in length shall be so
transported, except by a public utility when required for emergency repairs,
unless a permit has first been obtained as authorized in section 15-301 of the
"Illinois Vehicle Code". A combination of vehicles, including a tow truck and a
disabled vehicle or disabled combination of vehicles, which exceeds the length
restriction imposed by the "Illinois Vehicle Code", may be operated on a public
highway in this State upon the following conditions:
      1.   The towing vehicle must be:
         a.   Specifically designed as a tow truck having a gross vehicle
weight rating of at least eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds and equipped with
air brakes;
         b.   Equipped with flashing, rotating or oscillating amber lights,
visible for at least five hundred feet (500') in all directions; and
         c.   Capable of utilizing the lighting and braking system of the
disabled vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      2.   The towing of such vehicles on the highways of this State shall not
exceed fifty (50) miles from the initial point of wreck or disablement. Any
additional movement of such vehicles shall only occur upon issuance of
authorization for that movement pursuant to the provisions of sections 15-301
through 15-319 of the "Illinois Vehicle Code".
The Department of Transportation may, by rule or regulation, prescribe
additional requirements regarding length limitations for a tow truck towing
another vehicle.
For the purpose of this subsection, gross vehicle weight rating, or GVWR, shall
mean the value specified by the manufacturer as the loaded weight of the tow
truck. Legal holidays referred to in this Section shall be specified as the day
on which the following traditional holidays are celebrated:
   New Year's Day
   Memorial Day
   Independence Day
   Labor Day
   Thanksgiving Day
   Christmas Day
   H.   The load upon any vehicle operated alone or the load upon the front
vehicle of a combination of vehicles shall not extend more than three feet (3')
beyond the front wheels of such vehicle or the front bumper of such vehicle if
it is equipped with such a bumper.
   J.   The load upon the front vehicle of a combination of vehicles
specifically designed to transport motor vehicles shall not extend more than
three feet (3') beyond the foremost part of the transporting vehicle, and the
load upon the rear transporting vehicle shall not extend more than four feet
(4') beyond the rear of the bed or body of such vehicle. This subsection shall
only be applicable upon highways designated in subsections D and E of this
section.
   K.   Articulated vehicles comprised of two (2) sections, neither of which
exceeds a length of forty two feet (42'), designed for the carrying of more
than ten (10) persons, may be up to sixty feet (60') in length, not including
energy absorbing bumpers; provided, that such vehicles are:
      1.   Operated by and for any public body or motor carrier authorized by
law to provide public transportation services; or
      2.   Operated in local public transportation service by any other person
and the municipality in which such service is to be provided approved the
operation of such vehicle.
   L.   Any person who is convicted of violating this section is subject to the
penalty as provided in paragraph (b) of section 15-113 of the "Illinois Vehicle
Code". (1993 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 5 ILCS 100/5-5.
2 1. S.H.A. 5 ILCS 100/5-5.
Sec. 15.1708. Planking Edge Of A Pavement.
No tractor, traction engine or other metal tired vehicle weighing more than
four (4) tons, including the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall drive up
onto, off or over the edge of any paved public street in this city without
protecting such edge by putting down solid planks or other suitable devices to
prevent such vehicle from breaking off the edges or corners of such pavement.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1709. Spilling Loads On Highways Prohibited.
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or alley unless such
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substance may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such
roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any street or alley any vehicle with any
load unless said load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to
prevent said covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the street. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1710. Towed Vehicles.
   A.   When one vehicle is towing another, the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed thereby and the
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') from one
vehicle to the other, except for the connection between any two (2) vehicles
transporting poles, pipes, machinery or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
   B.   Outside a business, residential or suburban district or on any
controlled access highway, no vehicle other than a pole trailer or a
semitrailer which is being towed by a truck tractor and is connected by the
means of a fifth wheel shall be towed on a roadway except by a drawbar, and
each such vehicle so towed shall, in addition, be coupled with two (2) safety
chains or cables to the towing vehicle. Such chains or cables shall be of
sufficient size and strength to prevent the towed vehicle parting from the
drawing vehicle in case the drawbar should break or become disengaged. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1711. Load Limitations On Certain City Streets.
   A.   Except as provided in section 15.1712 of this article and/or schedule
XVI of section 15.2016 of this chapter, no vehicle exceeding the weight
restrictions described below shall be operated upon any street or highway under
the regulatory jurisdiction of the city:
      1.   Registered gross weight in excess of eighteen thousand (18,000)
pounds gross vehicle weight (GVW); and/or
      2.   Gross weight, including load, in excess of eighteen thousand
(18,000) pounds gross vehicle weight (GVW).
   B.   However, notwithstanding the foregoing limitations contained in
subsection A of this section, any vehicle exceeding eighteen thousand (18,000)
pounds, but not exceeding the statutory maximum gross vehicle weight (GVW)
which is required to make a delivery or pickup at a place of residence or
business along any such street under the regulatory jurisdiction of the city
may do so, but said vehicle shall move along any such given street from the
nearest point of entry to the place of pickup or delivery and shall leave said
street at the intersecting street nearest said point of delivery or pickup.
   C.   In addition to the restrictions contained in subsections A and B of
this section, the city may further restrict size and weight limitations by
ordinance pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-316.
   D.   The regulations contained in this section shall not apply to fire
apparatus, waste haulers licensed by the state of Illinois, snow or ice
removing vehicles owned or operated by or for any governmental agency,
implements of husbandry temporarily operated or towed in combination in the
furtherance of any farming or agricultural endeavor, public passenger vehicles,
common carriers operating under a certificate of necessity and convenience
issued by the Illinois commerce commission, or any vehicle or combination of
vehicles operating under the terms of a valid special permit issued pursuant to
section 15.1712 of this article. (Ord. 2019, 6-1-2000)
Sec. 15.1712. Special Permits For Trucks Having A Size Or Weight In Excess Of
Statutory Maximums.
   A.   Notwithstanding the regulations contained in subsections
15.1711A, B, and C of this article, provided the applicant has secured a permit
issued by the Illinois Department of Transportation authorizing the operation
of his vehicle upon any street or highway under the regulatory jurisdiction of
the State of Illinois, the City Manager or his designee may issue a special
permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or combination of
vehicles of a width, height, length and/or weight of vehicle or load exceeding
the maximum specified in the Statutes of the State of Illinois or otherwise not
in conformity with the provisions of section
15.1711 of this article, upon any street or highway under the regulatory
jurisdiction of the City, when in the judgment of the City Manager or his
designee an emergency exists. The application shall be in writing and shall
contain the following:
      1.   The name, address and phone number of the applicant as well as the
business name, address and phone number of the applicant, if any;
      2.   The driver's license number and state of issue of the person or
persons who will be driving the vehicle for which the permit is sought;
      3.   A specific description of the vehicle or vehicles, including the
vehicle identification and license plate numbers, the load to be operated or
moved, and the gross weight of the vehicle and the load;
      4.   An indication of whether the applicant is an authorized carrier
under the Illinois motor carrier of property law and, if so, the registration
and certificate number issued by the Illinois Commerce Commission;
      5.   The number of the permit issued by the Illinois Department of
Transportation;
      6.   The names of the particular streets and/or highways under the
regulatory jurisdiction of the City for which the permit to operate is
requested and whether the permit is sought for a single trip, a round trip,
multiple routing, or continuous operation; and
      7.   An acknowledgement that each such vehicle for which a permit may be
issued shall be available for and shall be open to inspection by any police
officer and that the move described will occur only as prescribed in the
permit.
   B.   When the City Manager or his designee issues such permit, he shall
establish seasonal or other time limitations within which the vehicle described
may be in operation on the streets or highways indicated, or otherwise limit or
prescribe conditions of operation, including, but not limited to, designation
of routes of such vehicle or vehicles in order to assure against undue damage
to the street foundations, surfaces or structures, and may require such
undertaking or security in the form of liability insurance and surety bond as
in the judgment of the City Manager or his designee may be necessary to
compensate for any injury to persons and property, including, but not limited
to, roadway pavement, public utility infrastructure, or other roadway
structure.
      1.   A permit for a single trip shall be valid for five (5) days
following its issuance, and the fee for such a permit shall be fifty dollars
($50.00). A permit for a round trip shall be valid for ten (10) days following
its issuance, and the fee for such a permit shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00). A permit for multiple routing or for continuous operation shall be
valid for ninety (90) days, and the fee for such permits shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
      2.   Every permit issued under the provisions of this section shall be
carried in the vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers.
      3.   In the event the City Manager or his designee determines that a
police escort is necessary to provide for a safe move for any given trip for
which the City Manager or his designee has issued a permit, as an additional
amount of fee to be added to the fee schedule listed above, the permittee shall
reimburse the City at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour per officer.
   C.   In connection with any movement for which such permit has been issued,
by acceptance of such given permit issued pursuant to this section, such
permittee assumes:
      1.   Total liability for the costs of repair (or replacement, as the case
may be) of any and all damages to streets, bridges, underground utilities and
infrastructure; and
      2.   The obligation of indemnifying and holding the City harmless from
any and all costs, judgments, settlements, including attorney fees, arising
from injuries, including death, or damage to or loss of property related to
acts or omissions by the permittee, the permittee's agents, officers and/or
employees. (Ord. 2019, 6-1-2000)
Sec. 15.1713. Covers Or Tarpaulins Required For Certain Loads.
No person shall operate or cause to be operated, on a highway, any second
division vehicle loaded with dirt, aggregate, garbage, refuse or other similar
material when any portion of the load is falling, sifting, blowing, dropping or
in any way escaping from the vehicle.
   A.   This section shall not apply to the operation of highway maintenance
vehicles engaged in removing snow and ice from the roadway, nor to implements
of husbandry or other farm vehicles while transporting agricultural products to
or from the original place of production.
   B.   For the purposes of this section the term "aggregate" shall include all
ores, minerals, sand, gravel, shale, coal, clay, limestone or any other ore or
mineral which may be mined.
   C.   Notwithstanding any other penalty, whenever a police officer determines
that the operator of a vehicle is in violation of this section, as evidenced by
the issuance of a citation for violation of this section, the police officer
shall require the operator to stop the vehicle in a suitable place and keep
such vehicle stationary until the load has either been reduced, secured or
covered with a cover or tarpaulin of sufficient size to prevent any further
violation of this section. (1993 Code)
   D.   Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be a petty
offense punishable by a fine as specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-
18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 15.1714. Business Offense; Penalty.
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a business offense for any person to be in
control of, to drive, to park, or to move on, upon or across or for the owner
to cause or knowingly permit to be parked, to be driven, or to be moved upon or
across, any street or highway under the jurisdiction of this city, any vehicle
or combination of vehicles exceeding the size and weight limitations stated in
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-102 (width), 5/15-103 (height), 5/15-111
(weight) or in this chapter.
   B.   Each owner and operator of any vehicle convicted by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating any provisions of section
15.1711 and/or 15.1712 of this article or subsection A of this section, shall
be guilty of a business offense and fined in accord with the penalties provided
in sections 15-113, 15-113.1, 15-113.2 and/or 15-113.3, of the Illinois vehicle
code, as applicable and in effect at the time of the offense. Each day that a
violation is found to exist shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 2019,
6-1-2000)
ARTICLE XVIII
ABANDONED, LOST, STOLEN OR UNCLAIMED VEHICLES
SECTION:
15.1801. Abandonment Of Vehicles Prohibited
15.1802. Lost, Stolen Or Abandoned Vehicle; Private Property
15.1803. Lost, Stolen Or Abandoned Vehicle; Public Property
15.1804. Towing And Postage Costs
15.1805. Notice Of Impoundment
15.1806. Reports On Towed Vehicles
15.1807. Record Searches
15.1808. Disposal Of Unclaimed Vehicles
15.1809. Impoundment Of Motor Vehicles Used In Connection With Illegal
Activities
Sec. 15.1801. Abandonment Of Vehicles Prohibited.
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this article, "abandon", "abandoned" or
"abandonment" shall mean the parking, placing or leaving of a vehicle or part
thereof upon public property or private property to which the vehicle
titleholder has no legal interest for such period of time as to evidence the
surrender of the titleholder's right to, or interest in the vehicle. For
vehicles on private property, only those vehicles left on the property without
the property owner's permission or consent shall be deemed abandoned. Criteria
for determining whether a vehicle is abandoned include, but shall not be
limited to:
      1.   The number of consecutive days the vehicle has been in one spot
without being moved;
      2.   The state of repair of the vehicle;
      3.   The age of the vehicle.
   B.   Unlawful: The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on any
street or highway in this city is hereby declared unlawful, and no person shall
leave any vehicle at any place within the city for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
   C.   Exception: The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on private
or public property, in view of the general public, anywhere in this city is
unlawful except on property of the owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle.
(Ord. 1861, 7-18-1996)
Sec. 15.1802. Lost, Stolen Or Abandoned Vehicle; Private Property.
   A.   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this
city, not the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the
police department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Upon receipt of such notification, the police department shall:
      1.   Attempt to ascertain the vehicle owner as provided in section
15.1807 of this article.
      2.   Send a notification by certified mail to the owner or legally
entitled person advising that:
         a.   The vehicle has been abandoned on private property without the
property owner's consent.
         b.   That the vehicle owner must come forward within ten (10) days of
the date of the notice and remove the vehicle or it will be impounded.
   C.   If the vehicle owner or legally entitled person fails to come forward
within the period in subsection B2b of this section, the police department may
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
shall safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents and maintain a record of
the tow as set forth in section
15.1806 of this article for law enforcement agencies until the vehicle is
claimed by the owner or any other person legally entitled to possession thereof
or until it is disposed of as provided in this article.
   D.   Nothing in this article shall be deemed to conflict with or supersede
the provisions of chapter 14 of this code. (Ord. 1861, 7-18-1996)
Sec. 15.1803. Lost, Stolen Or Abandoned Vehicle; Public Property.
   A.   When a vehicle is abandoned on public property in the city for seven
(7) days or more, the police department shall take the following steps before
authorizing the removal of the vehicle by a towing service:
      1.   Attempt to ascertain the vehicle owner as provided in section
15.1807 of this article.
      2.   Send a notification by certified mail to the owner or legally
entitled person advising that:
         a.   The vehicle has been abandoned on public property; and
         b.   That the vehicle owner must come forward within ten (10) days of
receipt of the notice and remove the vehicle or it will be impounded.
   B.   If the vehicle owner or legally entitled person fails to come forward
within the period in subsection A2b of this section, the police department may
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents and maintain a record of
the tow as set forth in section 15.1806 of this article for law enforcement
agencies until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally
entitled to possession thereof or until it is disposed of as provided in this
article.
   C.   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the
street or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of traffic, its
immediate removal from the street or private property adjacent to the street by
a towing service may be authorized by the Police Department.
   D.   Nothing in this article shall supersede the provisions of article XIII
of this chapter. (Ord. 1861, 7-18-1996)
Sec. 15.1804. Towing And Postage Costs.
When a vehicle removal from either public or private property is authorized by
the Police Department, the owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all
towing costs and postage incurred pursuant to the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 1861, 7-18-1996)
Sec. 15.1805. Notice Of Impoundment.
After the Police Department has authorized a vehicle to be towed and impounded
pursuant to section
15.1802 or
15.1803 of this article, the Police Department shall send a notification by
certified mail to the owner or legally entitled person:
   A.   Advising that the vehicle has been towed and impounded;
   B.   Advising where the vehicle is held;
   C.   Requesting a disposition be made; and
   D.   Setting forth public sale information. (Ord. 1861, 7-18-1996)
Sec. 15.1806. Reports On Towed Vehicles.
When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away as provided in section
15.1802 or
15.1803 of this article, the Police Department shall keep and maintain a record
of the vehicle towed, listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's
trade name, manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification
number and license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record
shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location
towed to, reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
(Ord. 1861, 7-18-1996)
Sec. 15.1807. Record Searches.
   A.   To ascertain the last known owner of a lost, stolen or abandoned
vehicle, the Police Department will cause the motor vehicle registration
records of the State of Illinois or a foreign state, if applicable, to be
searched by a direct communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of
obtaining the required ownership information.
   B.   The Police Department will also cause the stolen motor vehicle files of
the Illinois State Police to be searched by a direct communication to the
Illinois State Police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the
Illinois State Police files are searched with negative results, the information
contained in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files will be
searched by the Illinois State Police. The information determined from these
record searches will be returned to the Police Department. (Ord. 1861, 7-18-
1996)
Sec. 15.1808. Disposal Of Unclaimed Vehicles.
When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle seven (7) years of age or
newer remains unclaimed by the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to it possession for a period of thirty (30) days after notice has
been given as provided in section
15.1805 of this article, the Police Department or towing service having
possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold to the highest bidder.
Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a conspicuous place
for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the premises where the vehicle
has been impounded. At least ten (10) days prior to the sale, the Police
Department or the towing service where the vehicle is impounded shall cause a
notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail to the
registered owner or other person known by the Police Department or towing
service to be legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such notice
shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps
must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
In those instances where the certified notification specified in section
15.1805 of this article has been returned by the postal authorities to the
Police Department or towing service due to the addressee having moved, or being
unknown at the address obtained from the registration records of this State,
the sending of a second certified notice will not be required. (Ord. 1861, 7-
18-1996)
Sec. 15.1809. Impoundment Of Motor Vehicles Used In Connection With Illegal
Activities.
   A.   Violations Authorizing Impoundment: A motor vehicle, operated with the
permission, express or implied, of the owner of record, which is used in
connection with the following violations, may be subject to seizure and
impoundment by the City if the violation prevents the driver, or any person at
the scene of the violation authorized to operate the vehicle by the owner of
the vehicle, from lawfully operating the vehicle, or if a police officer
authorized to make arrests in the City determines that impoundment of the
vehicle is reasonably necessary as a community caretaking function so that the
vehicle does not jeopardize public safety and the efficient movement of
vehicular traffic. The owner of record of said vehicle shall be liable to the
City for an administrative penalty in addition to any towing and storage fees
as hereinafter provided. Each offense listed below is subject to an
administrative fee as specified in the master fee schedule.
Offenses:
      1.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission or attempted
commission of any offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and forfeited
pursuant to 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/36-1 et seq.;
      2.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, other drug or drugs,
intoxicating compounds, in violation of section
15.501 of this chapter, or 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501;
      3.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the
commission or attempted commission of any felony offense in violation of the
provisions of the Illinois Cannabis Control Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
550/1;
      4.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the
commission or attempted commission of any offense in violation of the Illinois
Controlled Substances Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/100;
      5.   Unlawful use of a weapon in violation of 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/24-1; aggravated discharge of a firearm in violation of 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/24-1.5; and unlawful possession of a firearm and firearm
ammunition, in violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.1;
      6.   Driving while driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-303;
except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure and impoundment if the
suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving), or due to failure to
comply with emissions testing;
      7.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance as defined
by the Illinois Cannabis Control Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/2, or
the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/100
et seq.;
      8.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's license
in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-101 where the period of expiration is greater than one
year;
      9.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver's license or permit in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101, or operating a motor
vehicle without ever having been issued a driver's license or permit due to a
person's age;
      10.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant, other than a warrant for an emission suspension, has been issued by a
Circuit Clerk in Illinois for any and all misdemeanor and/or felony offenses,
including, but not limited to: failing to answer charges that the driver
violated the offenses of: driving while license is revoked or suspended, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-303; operating a motor vehicle without a valid
driver's license, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101; and/or driving under
the influence of alcohol, other drugs, intoxicating compound(s), or any
combination thereof, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501;
      11.   A violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-204, "fleeing or
attempting to elude a peace officer", of the Illinois Vehicle Code; 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-503, "reckless driving; aggravated reckless
driving", of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended; 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-506, "street racing", of the Illinois Vehicle Code;
      12.   A violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-2, "aggravated
assault", of the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961, as amended; 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/12-3.2, "domestic battery", of the Illinois Criminal Code
of 1961, as amended; 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-3.05, "aggravated
battery", of the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961, as amended; 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/16, subdivision 10, "offense of retail theft", of the
Illinois Criminal Code of 1961, as amended, when the value of the merchandise
exceeds one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00); 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
18-1, "robbery", of the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961, as amended; 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-1.1, "aggravated arson", of the Illinois
Criminal Code of 1961, as amended; 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-1,
"criminal damage to property", of the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961, as
amended; or 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1, "mob action", of the
Illinois Criminal Code of 1961;
      13.   A violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14,
"prostitution", of the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961, as amended; 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-14.1, "solicitation of a sexual act", of the Illinois
Criminal Code of 1961, as amended; 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-15,
"soliciting for a prostitute", of the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961, as
amended; 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-18, "patronizing a prostitute", of
the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961, as amended; or 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-18.1, "patronizing a juvenile prostitute", of the Illinois
Criminal Code of 1961, as amended;
      14.   A violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501.8,
"suspension of driver's license; persons under age 21", a.k.a., "zero
tolerance", of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended;
      15.   Failure to stop or remain at the scene of an accident that resulted
in personal injury or death, or failure to report the accident within one-half
(1/2) hour after the motor vehicle accident or within one-half (1/2) hour of
being discharged from the hospital in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-401;
      16.   Failure to stop or remain at the scene of an accident that resulted
in damage to any motor vehicle in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-402; and
      17.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without a commercial driver's
license ("CDL") when a CDL is required by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
507. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   B.   General Regulations:
      1.   This section shall not replace or otherwise abrogate any existing
State or Federal laws or City ordinances pertaining to vehicle seizure, towing
and impoundment, and the owner shall be subject to these penalties in addition
to any penalties that may be assessed by a court for any criminal charges.
      2.   This section shall not apply if the vehicle used in the violation
was stolen at the time and the theft was reported to the appropriate police
authorities within twenty four (24) hours after the theft was discovered.
      3.   Fees for towing and storage of a vehicle under this section shall be
those approved by the Chief of Police for all tow companies authorized to tow
for the Police Department. (Ord. O-06-077, 12-21-2006)
   C.   Notice: Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to tow and impoundment pursuant to this section, the police
officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility authorized by
the City. Before or at a time the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall
notify any person identifying himself as the owner of the vehicle or any person
who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time for the alleged
violation, of the fact of the impoundment, and of the vehicle and of the
owner's right to request a preliminary vehicle impoundment hearing to be
conducted under subsection D of this section. Said vehicle shall be impounded
pending the completion of the hearings provided for in subsection D of this
section, unless the owner of the vehicle posts with the City a cash bond in the
amount of six hundred dollars ($600.00) and pays the accrued towing and storage
charges.
Before the time a vehicle is towed, if in the judgment of the police officer
then present, a person authorized by the owner or operator of the vehicle is
present and able to provide for the lawful immediate removal of the vehicle,
the vehicle will be released to that person and prompt removal of the vehicle
is effected, and no administrative penalty imposed.
   D.   Preliminary Hearing: If the owner of record of a vehicle impounded
pursuant to this section desires to appeal the impoundment, said owner must
make a request for hearing within twenty four (24) hours of the impoundment.
Said request shall be in writing and filed with the Chief of Police, or his
designee who shall conduct such preliminary hearing within twenty four (24)
hours after receipt of the request, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, or City
holidays. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the preliminary vehicle impoundment hearing. The formal rules of
evidence will not apply at the hearing and hearsay evidence shall be admissible
only if it is the type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in
the conduct of their affairs. If, after the hearing, the Chief of Police or his
designee determines there is probable cause to believe that the vehicle is
subject to impoundment pursuant to this section, he shall order the continued
impoundment of the vehicle as provided in this section unless the owner of the
vehicle posts with the City a cash bond in the amount of six hundred dollars
($600.00) and pays the tower any applicable towing and storage fees. If the
Chief of Police or his designee determines that there is no such probable
cause, the vehicle will be returned without penalty or other fees.
   E.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after a vehicle is impounded pursuant to
this section, the City shall notify the owner of record by certified mail,
return receipt requested, or by personal service as indicated by the owner's
signature on the notice of administrative hearing, form C, of the date, time,
and location of a plea hearing that will be conducted, pursuant to this
section. The hearing shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer, designated by the
City Administrator. The owner will appear at a plea hearing and enter a plea of
guilty or not guilty. If a plea of guilty is entered, the cause will be
disposed of at that time. If the owner pleads not guilty, a hearing shall be
scheduled and held, unless continued by the Hearing Officer, no later than
forty five (45) days after the vehicle was impounded. All interested persons
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. At any time
prior to the hearing date, the Hearing Officer may, at the request of either
party, direct witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearing. The formal
rules of evidence will not apply at the hearing, and hearsay evidence shall be
admissible only if it is the type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent
persons in the conduct of their affairs.
If, after the hearing, the Hearing Officer determines, by a preponderance of
the evidence, that the vehicle was used in connection with a violation set
forth in this section, the Hearing Officer shall enter an order finding the
owner of record of the vehicle civilly liable to the City for an administrative
fee in the amount of six hundred dollars ($600.00) and requiring the vehicle to
continue to be impounded until the owner pays the administrative fee to the
City plus fees to the tower for the towing and storage of the vehicle. If the
owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall enter
a default order in favor of the City. If the Hearing Officer finds no such
violation occurred, the Hearing Officer shall order the immediate return of the
owner's vehicle or cash bond without fees. (Ord. O-11-021, 11-17-2011)
   F.   Administrative Fee: If an administrative fee is imposed pursuant to
this section, such fee shall constitute a debt due and owing the City. If a
cash bond has been posted pursuant to this section the bond shall be applied to
the fee. If a vehicle has been impounded when such a fee is imposed, the City
may seek to obtain a judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment against the
vehicle's owner as provided by law. Except as provided otherwise in this
section, a vehicle shall continue to be impounded until the fee is paid to the
City and any applicable towing fees are paid to the tower, in which case
possession of the vehicle shall be given to the person who is legally entitled
to possess the vehicle or the vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of to
satisfy a judgment to enforce a lien as provided by law. If the administrative
fee and other applicable fees are not paid within thirty (30) days after an
administrative fee is imposed against an owner of record who defaults by
failing to appear at the hearing, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and
shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of
unclaimed vehicles. In all other cases, if the administrative fee and
applicable fee are not paid within thirty (30) days after the expiration of
time at which administrative review of the Hearing Officer's determination may
be sought, or within thirty (30) days after an action seeking administrative
review has been resolved in favor of the City, whichever is applicable, the
vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner
provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles under the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
   G.   Vehicle Possession:
      1.   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner,
lienholder, or other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a
vehicle impounded under this section until the administrative fee and fees
applicable under this section have been paid. However, whenever a person with a
lien of record against an impounded vehicle has commenced foreclosure
proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be given to that person if he or
she agrees in writing to refund the City the amount of the net proceeds of any
foreclosure sale, less any amounts required to pay all lienholders of record,
not to exceed the administrative fee, plus the applicable fees.
      2.   For purposes of this section, the "owner of record" of a vehicle is
the record titleholder as registered with the Secretary of State of the State
of Illinois.
   H.   Administrative Review: Any owner, lienholder or other person with a
legal interest in the vehicle, who is not satisfied with the decision of the
Hearing Officer, shall have the right to appeal the decision to the Circuit
Court, pursuant to the Administrative Review Act, as set forth fully in 735
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq. (Ord. O-06-077, 12-21-2006)
ARTICLE XIX
CONSTRUCTION, PENALTIES AND DISPOSITION OF FINES
SECTION:
15.1901. Effect Of Headings
15.1902. Severability
15.1903. Traffic Violation Tickets
15.1904. Arrests
15.1905. Penalties For Misdemeanor
15.1906. Disposition Of Fines
Sec. 15.1901. Effect Of Headings.
Chapter, article and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to
govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of
the provisions of any article or section of this chapter. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1902. Severability.
If any part of this chapter shall be held to be unconstitutional, such
unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity of the remaining parts of
this chapter. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed the
remaining part of this chapter if it had known that such part or parts thereof
would be declared unconstitutional. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1903. Traffic Violation Tickets.
Except where otherwise provided in this chapter, police officers may issue
traffic violation tickets setting forth the date, time and place of the
offense, the nature of the offense, the make, year, registration and license
numbers of the vehicles involved, the name and address of the driver where
possible and notify the offender to appear in court on a specific time and date
as is designated for hearing such cases. In the event that the offender does
not appear at the time, date and place specified, the arresting officer may
sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant for the offender's arrest. (Ord.
1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1904. Arrests.
Any person arrested for violation of this chapter shall be released upon proper
bail being furnished, as required by statute. The amount of bail or bond in
each instance may be prescribed by the police officer in command of the police
station in the absence of a Police Magistrate or Justice of the Peace;
provided, that the arrested person may, at his request, elect to have the
amount of such bail or bond set by a Magistrate or Justice as provided by
statute. (Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.1905. Penalties For Misdemeanor.
   A.   It is a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter unless such violation is by this chapter or other law of the State
of Illinois declared a felony.
   B.   Every person convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter for which another penalty is not provided shall be
punished by a fine for each conviction (first, second within 1 year of the
first, third and subsequent within 1 year of the first) as specified in the
master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 15.1906. Disposition Of Fines.
For offenses committed upon the streets or highways of this City, or within the
limits or jurisdiction of this City, fines and penalties recovered under the
provisions of this chapter shall be paid over to the Treasurer of this City.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
ARTICLE XX
APPENDIX
SECTION:
15.2001. Schedule I - Speed Restrictions
15.2002. Schedule II - One-Way Streets
15.2003. Schedule III - Prohibited Turns
15.2004. Schedule IV - Stop And Yield Signs
15.2005. Schedule V - No Stopping, Standing Or Parking
15.2006. Schedule VI - No Parking Any Time
15.2007. Schedule VII - Sunday Parking
15.2008. Schedule VIII - Weekday Parking
15.2009. Schedule IX - Parking During School Hours
15.2010. Schedule X - All Night Parking
15.2011. Schedule XI - Fifteen Minute Parking
15.2012. Schedule XII - Restricted Parking
15.2013. Schedule XIII - Two Hour Parking
15.2014. Schedule XIV - Three Hour Parking
15.2015. Schedule XV - Fire Lanes
15.2016. Schedule XVI - Load Limitations
15.2017. Schedule XVII - Prohibited Operation Of Certain Vehicles Upon Certain
Streets
Sec. 15.2001. Schedule I - Speed Restrictions.
In accordance with section
15.601 of this chapter, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall operate a motor vehicle in excess of the speed limits indicated
upon the following streets or portions of streets and/or driveways; except,
that the provisions of section
15.605 of this chapter, regarding special speed limits while passing schools,
shall take precedence during school days when school children are present and
shall in no way be construed to be in conflict with this schedule I.
Name Of Street Direction Of Traffic Movement Speed Limit Description
                                             (MPH)
Name Of Street    Direction Of Traffic Speed Limit Description
                  Movement             (MPH)
Andrews Drive     East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Arlene Drive      East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Ash Avenue        North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Aspen Road        East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Baum Court        East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Bauman Court      East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Beinoris Drive    East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Brookwood Drive   North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Brookwood Place   North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Butternut Avenue  East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Carter Avenue     East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Carter Court      Westbound            20          Entire jurisdiction
Catalpa Avenue    North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Cedar Avenue      North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Center Street     East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Central Avenue    North and southbound 20          Between Foster Avenue
                                                   and Third Avenue
Century Drive     North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Charmille Drive   East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Clayton Court     North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Commercial Avenue East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Creel Drive       North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Crestwood Court   East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Crestwood Road    North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Cypress Court     North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Dalewood Avenue   North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Deerpath Road     East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Dillon Drive      North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Division Street   East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Dunlay Street     East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Edgebrook Road    North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Edgewood Avenue   North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Elizabeth Court   East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Elizabeth Drive   East and westbound   25          Entire jurisdiction
Elmhurst Road     East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Elmwood Avenue    North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Ethel Lane        East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Florina Court     East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Forest Glen       Eastbound            20          Entire jurisdiction
Forest Preserve   East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Forest View       North and westbound  20          Entire jurisdiction
Front Street      East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
George Street     East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Gilbert Drive     East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Grove Avenue      North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Hackberry Court   East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Hansen Drive      East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Harvey Avenue     North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Hemlock Avenue    North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Heritage Drive    East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Hiawatha Trail    East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Hoover Drive      North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Iroquois Trail    North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Itasca Street     East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Juniper Avenue    East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Knollwood Drive   East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Lilac Lane        North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Lively Boulevard  North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Manning Drive     East and westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Maple Avenue      North and southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Mary Jane Lane    East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Miller Lane       North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Montrose Avenue   East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Mulberry Lane     North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Murray Drive      East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Oak Avenue        North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Oakwood           North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Orchard Street    East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Paramount         North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Park Lane         East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Pine Avenue       North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Pine Tree Lane    North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Poplar Avenue     North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Potter Street     East and Westbound   25          Between Addison and Dalewood
Potter Street     East and Westbound   20          Between Dalewood and Mill
                                                   Road
Potter Street     East and Westbound   20          Between Edgebrook and
Potter Street     East and Westbound   20          Between Wood Dale
                                                   Road and Spruce Avenue
Prospect Avenue   North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Richert Road      East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
River Avenue      North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Roberts Lane      East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Robin             North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Roy               East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Royal Oaks Drive  East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Sarah Drive       East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
School Street     East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Sherwood          East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Sivert Drive      North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
South Street
Spring Oaks       East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Spruce            North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Spruce Road       North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Station           North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Stoneham          East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Sunnyside         East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Tioga Trail       East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Victoria          East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Walnut Avenue     North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
Welter            East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Windsor           East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Wisteria Court    North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
                                                   Between School Street and
Wood Dale Road    North and Southbound 35          the northerly most corporate
                                                   limits
Wood Lane Court   East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Woodbine Court    East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Woodbine Drive    East and Westbound   20          Entire jurisdiction
Woodside Drive    North and Southbound 20          Entire jurisdiction
 
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. Ord. 1654, 7-2-1992; Ord. 1771, 12-1-1994)
Sec. 15.2002. Schedule II - One-Way Streets.
In accordance with section
15.708 of this chapter and when signposted, traffic shall move only in the
direction indicated upon the following streets; except, that where "school
hours" is described, such streets shall be one-way between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. to nine thirty o'clock (9:30) A.M., eleven thirty o'clock
(11:30) A.M. to one o'clock (1:00) P.M. and two thirty o'clock (2:30) P.M. to
four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on school days only.
Name Of Street Direction Of Traffic Movement  Description
Name Of Street            Direction Of Traffic  Description
                          Movement
                                                Located parallel to and
                                                between Irving Park Boulevard
                                                and Division Street from a
Alley, unnamed            Eastbound             point on the east line of
                                                Oakwood Drive eastward to the
                                                west line of Walnut Avenue,
                                                extended
Division Street           Westbound             From Wood Dale Road to the
                                                west City limits
                                                The easterlymost leg of
                                                Edgewood Avenue south of
Edgewood Avenue           Northbound            Thorndale Road and a point
                                                170 feet more or less south
                                                of the south line of
                                                Thorndale Road
                                                The westerlymost leg of
                                                Edgewood Avenue between
Edgewood Avenue           Southbound            Thorndale Road and a point
                                                170 feet more or less south
                                                of the south line of
                                                Thorndale Road
Parking Lots:
City Hall parking lot     Southbound
Park District parking lot Northbound
Wood Dale Road            Northbound            Nature Center entrance and
                                                exit onto Montrose Avenue
 
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. Ord. O-15-013, 8-6-2015; Ord. O-17-013, 6-15-2017)
Sec. 15.2003. Schedule III - Prohibited Turns.
In accordance with the provisions of section
15.807 of this chapter and when signs are erected giving notice thereof,
operators of vehicles shall not make the indicated turning movement upon those
streets at the intersections designated below; except, that where "school
hours" is described, such turns shall be prohibited at the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. to nine thirty o'clock (9:30) A.M., eleven thirty o'clock
(11:30) A.M. to one o'clock (1:00) P.M. and two thirty o'clock (2:30) P.M. to
four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on school days only.
Name Of Street Direction Of Traffic Prohibited Turn Into (Name Of Street)
               Movement
Name Of Street       Direction Of Traffic Prohibited Turn Into (Name Of Street)
                     Movement
                                                          Charmille Lane
Addison              Northbound              Right     between the hours of
                                                          9:00 A.M. and 9:00
                                                          P.M., except Sundays
Alley lying north of
Irving Park Road
between Central      Westbound               Right     Central Avenue
Avenue and Hemlock
Avenue
Driveway of the rear
parking lot of the
property commonly    Eastbound               Right     Dalewood Avenue
known as 396
WestIrving Park Road
Driveway of the rear
parking lot of the
property commonly    Eastbound               Right     Forest View Avenue
known as 260 West
Irving Park Road
Driveway of 7-Eleven
Store located at 116 Westbound               Left      Wood Dale Road
E. Commercial
Front Street         Southeast               Right     Irving Park Boulevard
                                                          Wood Dale Road (on
Irving Park          East and Westbound      Right     red signal on school
Boulevard                                                 days where children
                                                          are present)
                                                          West exit of
Prospect Avenue                              Left      Georgetown Shopping
                                                          Center
                                                          West exit of
Prospect Avenue                              Right     Georgetown Shopping
                                                          Center
Prospect Avenue      Northbound              Right     Irving Park Road (on
                                                          red signal)
Royal Oaks entrance                          Left      Route 83
                                                          Irving Park Boulevard
Wood Dale Road       North and Southbound    Right     (on red signal on
                                                          school days when
                                                          children are present)
                                                          Between Commercial
Wood Dale Road       Southbound              U-turn    Avenue and Irving
                                                          Park Boulevard
                                                          Driveway of 7-Eleven
Wood Dale Road       Southbound              Left      Store located at 116
                                                          E. Commercial
 
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. Ord. 1599, 6-20-1991; Ord. 1734, 3-3-1994; Ord.
1804, 7-20-1995; Ord. 1898, 9-18-1997)
Sec. 15.2004. Schedule IV - Stop And Yield Signs.
   A.   Stop Signs: In accordance with the provisions of section
15.904 of this chapter and when signs are erected giving notice thereof,
operators of vehicles shall stop at those intersections and upon those streets
and/or driveways designated below:
Name Of Street Direction Of Traffic Movement At Intersection With
Name Of Street              Direction Of Traffic At Intersection With
                            Movement
AEC Drive                   Southbound           Mittel
Arlene Drive                Westbound            Mill Road
Arlene Drive                Eastbound            Prospect Avenue
Ash Avenue                  North and southbound Commercial Street
Ash Avenue                  Southbound           Dunlay Court
Ash Avenue                  Northbound           Elmhurst Street
Ash Avenue                  North and southbound Irving Park Road
Ash Avenue                  Northbound           Potter Street
Ash Avenue                  North and southbound Stoneham Street
Balm Court                  Eastbound            Edgewood Avenue
Bauman Court                Eastbound            Mittel Drive
Beinoris Drive              Westbound            Central Avenue
Beinoris Drive              Eastbound            Edgewood Avenue
Cara Lane                   Northbound           Sunnyside Avenue
Carter Avenue               Westbound            Addison Road
Carter Court                Eastbound            Addison Road
Catalpa Avenue              Southbound           Commercial Street
Catalpa Avenue              North and southbound Elmhurst Street
Catalpa Avenue              North and southbound Irving Park Road
Catalpa Avenue              North and southbound Stoneham Street
Cedar Avenue                North and southbound Commercial Street
Cedar Avenue                Northbound           Elmhurst Street
Cedar Avenue                Southbound           Irving Park Road
Cedar Avenue                North and southbound Stoneham Street
Cedar Street                North and southbound Montrose Avenue
Cedar Street                North and southbound Murray Drive
Cedar Street                North and southbound Potter Street
Cedar Street                North and southbound Windsor Street
Center Street               Westbound            Grove Avenue
Center Street               Eastbound            Wood Dale Road
Central Avenue              North and southbound Commercial Street
Central Avenue              North and southbound Deerpath
Central Avenue              North and southbound Elmhurst Street
Central Avenue              North and southbound Foster Avenue
Central Avenue              Southbound           Irving Park Road
Central Avenue              North and southbound Montrose Avenue
Central Avenue              North and southbound Murray Lane
Central Avenue              Northbound           South Thorndale Avenue
Central Avenue              North and southbound Stoneham Street
Central Avenue              North and southbound Sunnyside Avenue
Charmille Lane              Westbound            Addison Road
Commercial Street           East and westbound   Cedar Avenue
Commercial Street           East and westbound   Central Avenue
Commercial Street           East and westbound   Wood Dale Road
Dalewood Avenue             North and southbound Irving Park Road
Dalewood Avenue             Southbound           Potter Street
Deerpath Road               Westbound            Central Avenue
Deerpath Road               East and westbound   Edgewood Avenue
Dillon Drive                Northbound           South Thorndale Avenue
Division Street             Westbound            Oakwood
Division Street             East and westbound   Wood Dale Road
Dunlay Court                Eastbound            Central Street
Dunlay Street               Westbound            Central Avenue
Dunlay Street               Eastbound            Spruce Avenue
Edgebrook Road              Northbound           Irving Park Road
Edgewood Avenue             North and southbound Beinoris Drive
Edgewood Avenue             North and southbound Commercial Street
Edgewood Avenue             Northbound           Deerpath Road
Edgewood Avenue             North and southbound Elmhurst Street
Edgewood Avenue             North and southbound Ethel Lane
Edgewood Avenue             North and southbound Foster Avenue
Edgewood Avenue             North and southbound Irving Park Road
Edgewood Avenue             Southbound           Oak Meadows Drive
Edgewood Avenue             Northbound           South Thorndale Avenue
Edgewood Avenue             North and southbound Stoneham Street
Edgewood Avenue             North and southbound Woodbine Drive
Elizabeth Drive             Westbound            Addison Road
Elizabeth Drive             Eastbound            Wood Dale Road
Elmhurst Street             East and westbound   Central Avenue
Elmhurst Street             Eastbound            Spruce Avenue
Elmhurst Street             Westbound            Wood Dale Road
Elmwood Avenue              North and southbound Commercial Street
Elmwood Avenue              North and southbound Elmhurst Street
Elmwood Avenue              Southbound           Irving Park Road
Elmwood Avenue              Southbound           Montrose Avenue
Elmwood Avenue              North and southbound Stoneham Street
Ethel Lane                  Eastbound            Edgewood Avenue
Forest Glen                 Westbound            Grove Avenue
Forest Glen                 Eastbound            Wood Dale Road
Forest Preserve             Eastbound            Addison Road
Forest Preserve             Westbound            Mill Road
Forest Preserve             East and westbound   Prospect Avenue
Forest View Avenue          Northbound           Irving Park Road
Foster Avenue               East and westbound   Central Avenue
Front Street                Eastbound            Elmwood Avenue
Front Street                East and westbound   Wood Dale Road
George Street               Westbound            Mill Road
George Street               East and westbound   Prospect Avenue
Gerry Drive                 Westbound            Mittel
Gilbert Drive               Eastbound            Addison Road
Gilbert Drive               Westbound            Mill Road
Gilbert Drive               East and westbound   Prospect Avenue
Grove Avenue                North and southbound Center Street
Grove Avenue                Southbound           Commercial Street
Grove Avenue                Southbound           Irving Park Road
Grove Avenue                Northbound           School Street
Hansen Court                Westbound            AEC Drive
Hansen Court                Southbound           Gerry Drive
Hansen Court                Eastbound            Wood Dale Road
Harvey Avenue               Southbound           Carter Avenue
Harvey Avenue               Northbound           Irving Park Road
Hemlock Avenue              North and southbound Commercial
Hemlock Avenue              Northbound           Elmhurst Street
Hemlock Avenue              North and southbound Irving Park Road
Hemlock Avenue              Northbound           Potter Street
Hemlock Avenue              Northbound           Stoneham Street
Hiawatha Trail              Westbound            Central Avenue
Irmen Drive                 Westbound            Mill Road
Irmen Drive                 Eastbound            Prospect Avenue
Iroquois Trail              Northbound           Montrose Avenue
Itasca Street               Westbound            Central Avenue
Itasca Street               East and westbound   Edgewood Avenue
Itasca Street               Eastbound            Spruce Avenue
Juniper Avenue              Eastbound            Central Avenue
Lively Boulevard            Southbound           Richert Road
Lively Boulevard            Northbound           South Thorndale Avenue
Lively Boulevard            Southbound           South Thorndale Avenue
Maple Avenue                North and southbound Commercial Street
Maple Avenue                North and southbound Elmhurst Street
Maple Avenue                Southbound           Irving Park Road
Maple Avenue                North and southbound Stoneham Street
Mary Jane Lane              Westbound            Mill Road
Mill Road                   North and southbound Arlene Drive
Mill Road                   Northbound           George Street
Mill Road                   North and southbound Montrose Avenue
Mill Road                   North and southbound Potter Street
Miller Lane                 Northbound           Irving Park Road
Mittel Boulevard            North and southbound North Thorndale Avenue
Montclare Lane              Northbound           Montrose Avenue
Montrose Avenue             East and westbound   Cedar Street
Montrose Avenue             East and westbound   Central Avenue
Montrose Avenue             Westbound            Mill Road
Montrose Avenue             Eastbound            Prospect Avenue
Montrose Avenue             Eastbound            Route 83
Montrose Avenue             East and westbound   Spruce Avenue
Montrose Avenue             Westbound            Wood Dale Road
Murray Drive                East and westbound   Cedar Street
Murray Drive                Westbound            Wood Dale Road
Murray Street               Eastbound            Central Avenue
North Thorndale Avenue      East and westbound   Mittel Boulevard
Oak Avenue                  North and southbound Commercial Street
Oak Avenue                  Northbound           Elmhurst Street
Oak Avenue                  Southbound           Irving Park Road
Oak Avenue                  Southbound           Montrose Avenue
Oak Avenue                  North and southbound Stoneham Street
Oak Hill Drive              Westbound            Wood Dale Road
Oakwood Alleyway            Westbound            Oakwood
Oakwood Drive               Northbound           Irving Park Road
Orchard Drive               Eastbound            Grove Street
Paramount Drive             Northbound           Potter Street
Pine Avenue                 Northbound           Elmhurst Street
Pine Lane                   Northbound           Potter Street
Pine Lane                   North and southbound Stoneham Street
Police Department/City Hall Eastbound            Wood Dale Road
parking lot
Pond                        Northbound           Mittel
Poplar Avenue               Northbound           Elmhurst Street
Potter Street               East and westbound   Ash Avenue
Potter Street               East and westbound   Cedar Street
Potter Street               Eastbound            Spruce Avenue
Potter Street               East and westbound   Dalewood
Potter Street               Westbound            Mill Road
Potter Street               East and westbound   Prospect Avenue
Potter Street               East and westbound   Station Drive
Potter Street               Westbound            Wood Dale Road
Prospect Avenue             North and southbound Forest Preserve
Prospect Avenue             North and southbound George Street
Prospect Avenue             North and southbound Gilbert Drive
Prospect Avenue             Northbound           Irving Park Road
Prospect Avenue             North and southbound Potter Street
Richert Road                Westbound            Central Avenue
Richert Road                East and westbound   Lively Boulevard
Robin Lane                  Northbound           George Street
Robin Lane                  Southbound           Potter Street
Roy Drive                   Eastbound            Robin Lane
Royal Oaks                  Eastbound            Route 83
Sarah Court                 Westbound            Prospect Avenue
Sarah Drive                 Westbound            Mill Road
Sarah Drive                 Eastbound            Prospect Avenue
School Street               East and westbound   Grove Avenue
School Street               Eastbound            Wood Dale Road
Sivert Drive                Westbound            Central
Sivert Drive                Northbound           South Thorndale Avenue
South Thorndale Avenue      Eastbound            Lively Boulevard
South Thorndale Avenue      Westbound            Lively Boulevard
Spring Oaks Drive           Westbound            Wood Dale Road
Spruce Avenue               North and southbound Montrose Avenue
Spruce Avenue               Southbound           Sherwood Drive
Station Drive               Northbound           Irving Park Road
Station Drive               Southbound           Potter Street
Stoneham Street             East and westbound   Central Avenue
Stoneham Street             East and westbound   Edgewood Avenue
Stoneham Street             East and westbound   Hemlock Avenue
Stoneham Street             East and westbound   Walnut Avenue
Stoneham Street             Westbound            Wood Dale Road
Sunnyside Avenue            East and westbound   Central Avenue
Sunnyside Avenue            East and westbound   Oak Avenue
Sunnyside Avenue            East and westbound   Walnut Avenue
Sunnyside Avenue            Westbound            Wood Dale Road
Tioga Trail                 Westbound            Central Avenue
Victoria Drive              Westbound            Prospect Avenue
Victoria Lane               Westbound            Mill Road
Victoria Lane               Westbound            Prospect Avenue
Walnut Avenue               North and southbound Commercial Street
Walnut Avenue               Northbound           Elmhurst Street
Walnut Avenue               Southbound           Front Street
Walnut Avenue               Southbound           Irving Park Road
Walnut Avenue               Southbound           Montrose Avenue
Walnut Avenue               North and southbound Stoneham Street
Welter Drive                Southbound           Potter Street
Welter Drive                Eastbound            Robin
Wheat Lane                  Northbound           Mittel
Windsor Street              East and westbound   Cedar Street
Windsor Street              Eastbound            Central Avenue
Windsor Street              Westbound            Wood Dale Road
Woodlane Court              Westbound            Central Avenue
Woodside Drive              Southbound           Oak Meadows Drive
 
(Ord. O-18-035, 11-1-2018; amd. Ord. O-20-005, 3-19-2020)
   B.   Yield Intersections:
Name Of Street Direction Of Traffic Movement At Intersection With
Name Of Street    Direction Of Traffic Movement At Intersection With
Catalpa Avenue    Northbound                    Elmhurst Street
Commercial Street Westbound                     Grove Avenue
Edgewood Avenue   North and southbound          Elmhurst Street
Gerry Drive       Eastbound                     AEC Drive
Hansen Court      Eastbound                     AEC Drive
Hemlock Avenue    Southbound                    Dunlay Court
Hoover Drive      Northbound                    George Street
Robin Lane        East and westbound            George Street
Spring Oaks Drive Eastbound                     Cedar Street
Spruce Avenue     Southbound                    Hiawatha Trail
 
(Ord. 1329, 1-16-1986; amd. Ord. 1396, 2-5-1987; Ord. 1775, 1-5-1995; Ord.
1948, 12-3-1998)
   C.   Warrants For Stop Signs:
      1.   Design:
         a.   The sign shall be octagon with white message and border on a red
background. The standard size shall be thirty inches by thirty inches (30" x
30"). Where greater emphasis or visibility is required, a larger size may be
used. On low- volume local and secondary streets with low approach speeds, a
twenty four inch by twenty four inch (24" x 24") size may be used.
         b.   At a multi-way stop intersection, a supplementary plate should be
mounted just below each stop sign. If the number of approach legs to the
intersection is three (3) or more, the numeral on the supplementary plate shall
correspond to the actual legs, or the legend "ALL WAY" may be used. The
supplementary plate shall have white letters on a red background and shall have
a standard size of twelve inches by six inches (12" x 6") or eighteen inches by
six inches (18" x 6"). Where accident frequency at an intersection does not
meet the warrants for a four-way stop sign but is considered a hazard, a
supplementary plate may be added with the legend "Thru Traffic".
         c.   A stop sign beacon or beacons may be used in conjunction with a
stop sign.
         d.   Secondary messages shall not be used on stop sign faces.
      2.   Warrants:
         a.   Preamble: Because the stop sign causes a substantial
inconvenience to motorists, it should be used only when warranted. A stop sign
may be warranted at an intersection where one or more of the following
conditions exist:
            (1)   Intersection of less important road with a main road where
application of the normal right-of-way rule is unduly hazardous.
            (2)   Street entering a through highway or street.
            (3)   Unsignalized intersection in a signalized area.
            (4)   Other intersections where a combination of high speed,
restricted view and serious accident record indicates a need for control by the
stop sign.
Note:
            (1)   Stop signs should never be used on the through roadways of
expressways. Properly designed expressway interchanges provide for the
continuous flow of traffic, making stop signs unnecessary even on the entering
roadways. Where at-grade intersections are temporarily justified for local
traffic in sparsely populated areas, stop signs should be used on the entering
roadways to protect the through traffic. Stop signs may also be required at the
end of diverging roadways at the intersection with other highways not designed
as expressways. In most of these cases, the speeds will not warrant any great
increase in the sign sizes.
            (2)   Stop signs shall not be erected at intersections where
traffic-control signals are operating. The conflicting commands of two (2)
types of control devices are confusing. If traffic is required to stop when the
operation of a stop-and- go signal is not warranted, the signals should be put
on flashing operation with the red flashing light facing the traffic that must
stop.
            (3)   Where two (2) main highways intersect, the stop sign or signs
should normally be posted on the minor street to stop the lesser flow traffic.
Traffic engineering studies, however, may justify a decision to install a stop
sign or signs on the major street, as at a three-way intersection where safety
considerations may justify stopping the greater flow of traffic to permit a
left-turning movement.
            (4)   Stop signs should not be installed indiscriminately at all
unprotected railroad crossings. The allowance of stop signs at all such
crossings would eventually breed contempt for both law enforcement and
obedience to the sign's command to stop. Stop signs may only be used at
selected rail/highway grade crossings and after their need has been determined
by a detailed traffic engineering study. Such studies should consider approach
speeds, sight distance restrictions, volumes, accident records, etc. This
application of stop signs should be an interim use period during which plans
for lights, gates or other means of control are being prepared.
            (5)   Portable or part-time stop signs shall not be used except for
emergency purposes. Also stop signs should not be used for speed control.
      3.   The "multi-way stop" installation has been found useful as a safety
measure at some locations. It should ordinarily be used where the volume of
traffic on the intersecting streets is approximately equal. Any of the
following conditions may warrant a multi-way stop sign installation:
         a.   Where traffic signals are warranted and urgently needed, the
multi-way stop is an interim measure that can be installed quickly to control
traffic while arrangements are being made for signal installation.
         b.   An accident problem, as indicated by five (5) or more reported
accidents of a type susceptible of correction by a multi-way stop installation
in a twelve (12) month period. Such accidents include right- and left-turn
collisions as well as right-angle collisions.
         c.   Minimum Traffic Volumes:
            (1)   The total vehicular volume entering the intersection from all
approaches must average at least five hundred (500) vehicles per hour for any
eight (8) hours of an average day, and
            (2)   The combined vehicular and pedestrian volume from the minor
street or highway must average at least two hundred (200) units per hour for
the same eight (8) hours, with an average delay to minor street vehicular
traffic of at least thirty (30) seconds per vehicle during the maximum hour,
but
            (3)   When the eighty five percentile (85%) approach speed of the
major street traffic exceeds forty (40) miles per hour, the minimum vehicular
volume warrant is seventy percent (70%) of the above requirements.
      4.   Other Usage and Nonusage:
         a.   Stop signs also may be erected facing traffic entering a street
or highway from cemeteries, parks, parking lots and private roads.
         b.   No definite rule can be established to govern the placement of
stop signs at wye junctions because of the variation of the direction of
principal traffic movement.
            (1)   Each wye junction shall be given individual study.
            (2)   As a general guide, if the volume of traffic in the
conflicting movements at either intersecting point of a wye junction is light
and has a ratio of less than six to one (6:1), it is sufficient justification
for stopping the larger traffic movement in favor of the smaller.
         c.   No stop signs shall be erected at intersections where traffic-
control signals are present except as a temporary measure during signal
maintenance of relatively short duration.
         d.   Portable stop signs shall never be used for school crossings or
other part-time usages. The efficiency of any stop sign as pedestrian
protection is debatable, and the reliance on traffic obedience of intermittent
stop control without a flashing red indication as an attention-attracting
device is insufficient protection for school children.
   D.   Warrants For Yield Signs:
      1.   The yield sign shall not be regarded as a substitute for a stop sign
where a stop sign is warranted. Yield signs shall not be used:
         a.   To control the major flow of traffic at an intersection.
         b.   On the approaches of more than one of the intersecting streets or
highways or used at any intersection where there are stop signs on one or more
approaches, except, under special circumstances, to provide minor movement
control within complex intersections.
         c.   On the through roadways of expressways. They may be used on an
entering roadway without an adequate acceleration lane, but in a well designed
interchange, the sign would interfere with the free merging movement, and it
should not be used under those circumstances.
      2.   The Yield Sign Is Warranted:
         a.   Where traffic signals are warranted and urgently needed, the
multi-way stop is an interim measure that can be installed quickly to control
traffic while arrangements are being made for the signal installation.
         b.   On the entrance ramp to an expressway where an acceleration lane
is not provided.
         c.   Within an intersection with a divided highway or at median
openings facing traffic entering the second roadway of the divided highway
where the median is less than fifty feet (50') and more than thirty feet (30').
If the median is fifty feet (50') or greater, a stop sign should be erected.
         d.   Where there is a separate or channelized right-turn lane without
an adequate acceleration lane.
         e.   At any intersection where a special problem exists and where an
engineering study indicates the problem to be susceptible to correction by use
of the yield sign.
   E.   Location Of Stop Sign And Yield Sign: The location and proper erection
of the control devices shall be in accordance with the applicable portions of
the U.S., DOT, FHWA, Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, and the State
of Illinois DOT Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. (Ord. 1329, 1-16-
1986)
Sec. 15.2005. Schedule V - No Stopping, Standing Or Parking.
In accordance with sections
15.1301 and
15.1319 of this chapter, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle between the hours specified herein
within the district or upon any of the streets or parts of streets as follows:
Name Of Street Side Of Street Between Hours Of Description
Name Of Street  Side Of Street  Between Hours Of        Description
Beinoris Drive  North                                   Between Creel Drive and
                                                        Central Avenue
                South                                   Between Central Avenue
                                                        and Edgewood Avenue
Carter Avenue   North and south                         Between Edgebrook Road
                                                        and Oakwood Drive
Commercial      North and south                         Between Wood Dale Road
                                                        and Elmwood Street
                                                        Between the parking
                                                        meters to the west and
Front Street    North           6:00 A.M. and 8:30 A.M. the building line to
                                                        the east of Walnut
                                                        Street except weekends
George Street   North                                   Between Mill Road and
                                                        Station Drive
                South                                   Between Prospect Street
                                                        and Station Drive
                                                        From its intersection
Hiawatha Trail  East                                    with Sherwood Drive to
                                                        its intersection with
                                                        Spruce Avenue
Irving Park     East and west                           Entire jurisdiction
Potter Street   South           6:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. From Central Avenue to
                                                        Pine Avenue
Prospect Avenue West                                    Between Potter Street
                                                        and Gilbert Drive
                                                        Entire jurisdiction
Sivert Drive    All                                     except on the north
                                                        side, between Central
                                                        Avenue and Creel Drive
                East and west                           Entire jurisdiction
                                                        From 70 feet northeast
                                                        of its intersection
Spruce Avenue   East                                    with Hiawatha Trail to
                                                        its intersection with
                                                        Sherwood Drive
                                                        From its intersection
                West                                    with Hiawatha Trail to
                                                        its intersection with
                                                        Montrose Avenue
Station Drive   East                                    Between Irving Park
                                                        Road and Potter Street
                                                        From a point 50 feet
                West                                    south of Park Lane to a
                                                        point 125 feet north of
                                                        Park Lane
Walnut Street   West                                    Between Commercial
                                                        Avenue and Front Street
                                                        Entire jurisdiction,
Wood Dale Road  East and west                           except as otherwise
                                                        provided
 
(Ord. O-14-023, 4-17-2014)
Sec. 15.2006. Schedule VI - No Parking Any Time.
In accordance with sections
15.1310 and
15.1315 of this chapter and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall at any time permit a vehicle to park upon any of the following
described streets or parts of streets:
Name Of Street  Side Of Street  Description
Name Of Street     Side Of Street            Description
AEC Drive          East and west             Entire jurisdiction
Addison Road       East and west             Entire jurisdiction
Ash Avenue         West                      Irving Park Road to Elmhurst
                                             Street
Balm Court         South                     Entire jurisdiction
Bauman Court       North and south           Entire jurisdiction
Blackhawk Court    Both excepting 3 marked   Driscoll Lane to Bristol Lane
                   spaces
Bristol Lane       Both excepting 12 marked  Devon Avenue to south end
                   spaces
Carter Avenue      North                     At Edgebrook Road
                                             At Oakwood
Catalpa Avenue     East                      Commercial Avenue to Elmhurst
                                             Street
                   West                      Irving Park Road to Commercial
                                             Avenue
Catherine Court    North and south           Entire road and court
Cedar Avenue       East                      Commercial Avenue to Elmhurst
                                             Street
                                             From the north right of way
                                             line of Irving Park Road to a
                                             point 160 feet north thereof
                   West                      Commercial Avenue to Irving
                                             Park Road
                                             From the north right of way
Central Avenue     East                      line of Irving Park Road to
                                             the south right of way line of
                                             Foster Avenue
                                             Irving Park Road to Elmhurst
                                             Street
                                             Between Thorndale and Foster
                   East and west             Avenues, within the corporate
                                             limits
                                             From the south right of way
                                             line of Sunnyside Avenue to
                                             the north right of way line of
                                             Montrose Avenue
Clayton Court      All                       Entire jurisdiction
Commercial Avenue  North and south           Entire jurisdiction
                   South                     Wood Dale Road to Pine Lane
Creel Drive        East and west             Entire jurisdiction
                                             From the north right of way
                                             line of Potter Street to a
Dalewood Avenue    West                      point 250 feet south of the
                                             south right of way line of
                                             Irving Park Road
Dillon Drive       East and west             Entire jurisdiction
Driscoll Lane      Both                      Wood Dale Road to Blackhawk
                                             Court
                                             The entire paved turnaround
                                             area at the terminus of Dunlay
Dunlay Street      North, south and west     Street located some 670 feet
                                             (more or less) west of Spruce
                                             Avenue
East Pond Avenue   West                      Entire jurisdiction
                                             From a point 255 feet south of
Edgewood Avenue    East                      Beinoris Drive to a point 164
                                             feet south of Balm
                   East and west             From a point 164 feet south of
                                             Balm to Foster Avenue
                                             From Thorndale Avenue to a
                                             point 225 feet south of
                                             Beinoris Drive
                   West                      Irving Park Road to Foster
                                             Avenue
Elizabeth Drive    North                     Addison Road to Essex Court
                                             100 feet end of Elizabeth
                                             Drive
                   South                     Essex Court for entire length
                                             of road
Elmhurst Street    South                     Wood Dale Road to Poplar
                                             Avenue
                                             From the north right of way
Elmwood Avenue     East                      line of Irving Park Road to a
                                             point 150 feet north thereof
                   West                      Irving Park Road to Elmhurst
                                             Street
Essex Court        North and south           Entire road and court
Gerry Drive        North and south           Entire jurisdiction
                                             From the west line of Addison
Gilbert Drive      North and south           Road to a point 150 feet west
                                             of the west line of Addison
                                             Road
Grove Avenue       West                      Entire jurisdiction
Hansen Drive       North and south           Entire jurisdiction
Haynes Avenue      North and south           Entire jurisdiction
Hemlock Avenue     West                      Irving Park Road to Elmhurst
                                             Street
Irving Park Road   North and south           Entire jurisdiction
Itasca Avenue      South                     Wood Dale Road to Poplar
                                             Avenue
Lewis Drive        East and west             Between Mittel Boulevard and
                                             Michael Drive
Lively Boulevard   East                      Between Thorndale Avenue and
                                             Richert Road
Maple Avenue       West                      Irving Park Road to Elmhurst
                                             Street
Mark Street        North and south           Entire jurisdiction
Mary Jane Lane     South                     Between Prospect and Mill Road
Michael Drive      East and west             Between Thorndale and Mark
                                             Street
Mittel Boulevard   East and west             Entire jurisdiction
Mittel Drive       All                       Entire jurisdiction
Montrose Avenue    South                     Adjacent to the building known
                                             as 440 East Montrose Avenue
Oak Avenue         East                      Between Irving Park Road and
                                             the alley north thereof
                                             Irving Park Road to Elmhurst
                                             Street
Oak Meadows Drive  All                       Entire jurisdiction
                                             From Irving Park Road to the
                                             north line of the alley south
Oakwood Drive      West                      of Irving Park Road (extended
                                             west to the west line of
                                             Oakwood)
Orchard Drive      North                     Entire jurisdiction
Pine Avenue        East                      Commercial Avenue to Elmhurst
                                             Street
                                             From Elmhurst Street to the
                   West                      corporate limits, which is
                                             located between Stoneham
                                             Street and Hillside Drive
Poplar Avenue      West                      350 North to Elmhurst Street
Potter Street      North                     From Clare Court to a point 50
                                             feet east of the intersection
Prospect Avenue    West                      Potter Street to George Street
Raleigh Court      East and west             Entire road and court
Richert Road       North and south           Entire jurisdiction
                                             From the north line of
Spruce Avenue      West                      Hiawatha Trail to a point 165
                                             feet north of Hiawatha Trail
Stoneham Street    North                     Wood Dale Road to Poplar
                                             Avenue
                                             From the north right of way
Walnut Avenue      East                      line of Irving Park Road to
                                             the alley north thereof
                                             Front Street to Elmhurst
                                             Street
                   West                      Between Commercial and Front
                                             Streets
Wheat Lane         All                       Entire jurisdiction
Wood Dale Road     East and west             Between Foster and Thorndale
                                             Roads
 
(Ord. O-14-018, 7-17-2014)
Sec. 15.2007. Schedule VII - Sunday Parking.
In accordance with section
15.1316 of this chapter, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall stand, stop, or park a vehicle between the hours specified herein
on any Sunday within the district or upon any of the streets or parts of
streets as follows:
 
Name Of Street Side Of Street Hours Prohibited Description
None
 
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.2008. Schedule VIII - Weekday Parking.
In accordance with section
15.1317 of this chapter, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours specified below on any day,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, within the district or upon
any of the streets or parts of streets as follows:
 
Name Of  Side   Hours
Street   Of     Prohibited Description
         Street
Division North  4:00 P.M.  East line of Wood Dale    Road and the east line of Walnut Avenue
Street   and    to 7:00    (extended)
         south  P.M.
 
(Ord. 1599, 6-20-1991)
Sec. 15.2009. Schedule IX - Parking During School Hours.
In accordance with section
15.1318 of this chapter, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle between the hours of eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on school days within the district or
upon any of the streets or parts of streets as follows:
 
Name Of Street Side Of Street  Description
Potter Street  North           Between Addison Road and Dalewood
 
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. Ord. 1440, 3-17-1988)
Sec. 15.2010. Schedule X - All-Night Parking.
In accordance with subsection
15.1319B of this Chapter, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any day within the district or upon any of the
streets or parts of streets as follows:
 
Name Of Street Side Of Street Description
Central Avenue East and West  Beinoris to the north boundary of the City
Devon Avenue   South          Entire jurisdiction
Thorndale      South          Entire jurisdiction
Wood Dale Road East and West  Entire jurisdiction
 
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985; amd. Ord. 1604, 9-5-1991; Ord. 1765, 10-6-1994)
Sec. 15.2011. Schedule XI - Fifteen Minute Parking.
In accordance with subsection
15.1320A of this Chapter, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall park a vehicle for more than fifteen (15) minutes on any day,
except Sundays and legal holidays, between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. within the district or upon any of the
following streets or parts of streets:
 
Location Description
None
 
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
Sec. 15.2012. Schedule XII - Restricted Parking.
 Residential Parking Permit No. 1:
   In accordance with subsection
15.1320B of this chapter and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. upon the north side of Potter Street between Prospect
Avenue and Station Drive, the east side of Prospect Avenue between George
Street and Potter Street, the west side of Hoover Drive, and the south side of
Park Lane between Hoover Drive and Station Drive unless such person is a
resident of the area within the lines described as follows: commencing at a
point on the southeast corner of the intersection of George Street and Prospect
Avenue eastward along the right-of-way line of George Street to its
intersection with Hoover Drive; thence south along the west right-of-way line
of Hoover Drive to the south right-of-way line of Park Lane; thence east along
the south right-of-way line of Park Lane to its intersection with Station
Drive; thence south along the west right-of-way line of Station Drive to its
intersection with Potter Street; thence west along the north right-of-way line
of Potter Street to its intersection with Prospect Avenue; thence north along
the east right-of-way line of Prospect Avenue to the point of beginning, and
such person has permanently affixed to the lower passenger side rear window of
such vehicle a "Residential Permit No. 1" decal which may be purchased at the
Office of the City Clerk for a designated duration and a fee amount as
specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 15.2013. Schedule XIII - Two Hour Parking.
In accordance with subsection
15.1320C of this chapter, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall park a vehicle for more than two (2) hours on any day, except
Sundays and legal holidays, between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. within the district or upon any of the streets or parts
of streets as follows:
 
Name Of Street Side Of Street Description
Elmwood Avenue    East     Between Irving Park Road and the public alley
Oak Avenue        West     Between Irving Park Road and the alley north
                              thereof
 
(Ord. 1384, 12-18-1986; amd. Ord. 1509, 8-3-1989; Ord. 1574, 1-3-1991; Ord.
1769, 11-3-1994)
Sec. 15.2014. Schedule XIV - Three Hour Parking.
In accordance with subsection 15.1320D of this chapter, and when signs are
erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for more than
three (3) hours on any day, except Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays,
between the hours specified within the area or upon the streets or parts of
streets as follows:
 
Name               Hours Parking Prohibited Description
                                            South side between the west right
Commercial Street  8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.   of way line of Walnut Street and a
                                            point 170 feet west thereof
Walnut parking lot 6:00 A.M. to 9:00 P.M.   North of Irving Park Road between
                                            Elmwood Avenue and Wood Dale Road
 
(Ord. O-11-008, 6-2-2011)
Sec. 15.2015. Schedule XV - Fire Lanes.
In accordance with subsection
15.1321A of this chapter, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall at any time block or obstruct the following described districts,
streets, driveways, areas or parts thereof:
      1.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in the
"Brookwood-On-The-Greens" condominium development.
      2.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress into the
common areas and parking areas of "Georgetown West Subdivision", legally
described as: Areas "A" through "I", part of Block 1, and Warren Court Addition
21 to Georgetown West, in the Northwest quarter of Section 16, Township 40,
Range 11, East of the Third Principal Meridian.
      3.   "Washington Square", in the Georgetown West Subdivision.
      4.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in or
upon the following described parcels of real estate:
         Lot 1 in Park Royal Subdivision commonly known as "120 South Spruce".
         Lot 2 in Park Royal Subdivision commonly known as "121 South Spruce".
         Lot 3 in Park Royal Subdivision commonly known as "129 South Spruce".
      5.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in or
upon the following described parcels of real estate:
         Lot 11 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park, commonly known as
"950" and "960 Sivert".
         That part of lot 12 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park, commonly
known as "955-965 Sivert".
         Lot 13 (except the south 140 feet thereof) in Klefstad's Wood Dale
Industrial Park, commonly known as "950-960 Lively".
         The south 80 feet of lot 14 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park,
commonly known as "955 North Lively".
         The east 200 feet of lot 16 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park,
commonly known as "900-910-920 Sivert".
         That part of lot 17 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park, commonly
known as "905-925 Sivert".
         Lot 17 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park, commonly known as
"935-945 Sivert".
         Lot 18 and the south 140 feet of lot 13 in Klefstad's Wood Dale
Industrial Park, commonly known as "900-940 Lively".
         Lot 20 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park, commonly known as
"861-889 North Central".
         Lot 21 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park, commonly known as
"875-895 Sivert".
         Lot 22 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park, commonly known as
"870-890 Lively".
         Lot 23 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park, commonly known as "875
North Lively".
         Lot 24 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park, commonly known as
"852-864 North Lively".
         Lot 26 (except the North 10.0 feet thereof) in Klefstad's Wood Dale
Industrial Park Unit No. 1, commonly known as "855 Lively", a Subdivision of
Sections 3 and 10, Township 40 North, Range 11, East of the Third Principal
Meridian, according to the plat thereof recorded March 22, 1973, as Document
No. R73-155-96, in the Village of Wood Dale, DuPage County, Illinois.
         Lot 28 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park, commonly known as "840
North Lively".
         Lot 29 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park, commonly known as "845
North Lively".
         That part of Lots 30 and 31 of Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park,
commonly known as "261" and "263 Richert".
         Lot 32 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park, commonly known as "811
North Lively".
         Lot 34 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park, commonly known as "290
Richert".
         Lot 35 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park, commonly known as "310
Richert".
         Lot 5 and East 20 feet of Lot 4, commonly known as "311" and "313
Beinoris Drive" - Rangvald T. Thompson Subdivision.
         Part of Lot 10, Klefstad Subdivision, commonly known as "935 North
Central".
         North 160 feet of Lot 24, Howard James Subdivision, commonly known as
"859 North Sivert".
      6.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in Lots
12, 13, 17, 18, 21, and 22 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park Unit One, a
Subdivision in Sections 3 and 10, Township 40 North, Range 11, East of the
Third Principal Meridian, according to the plat thereof recorded March 22,
1973, as Document No. R73-155-96 in DuPage County, Illinois.
      7.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in Lot 31
in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park Unit One, a subdivision of Sections 3
and 10, Township 40 North, Range 11, East of the Third Principal Meridian,
according to the plat thereof recorded March 22, 1973 as Document No. R73-155-
96, in DuPage County, Illinois, commonly known as "811 North Lively", Wood
Dale, Illinois.
      8.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in Lots
1, 2, and 3 in Harold's Eaglins Subdivision, commonly known as "190 South Wood
Dale Road".
      9.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in Lot 3
in Block 18 in H. O. Stone and Company's 2nd Irving Park Addition to Wood Dale,
Illinois, commonly known as "372 East Irving Park Road".
All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in Lot 4 in Block 18
in H. O. Stone and Company's 2nd Irving Park Addition to Wood Dale, Illinois,
commonly known as "370 East Irving Park Road".
      10.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in or
upon the following described parcels of real estate:
         Lot 5 in Block 18 in H. O. Stone and Company's 2nd Irving Park
Addition to Wood Dale, Illinois, commonly known as "366 East Irving Park Road".
         Lot 6 in Block 18 in H. O. Stone and Company's 2nd Irving Park
Addition to Wood Dale, Illinois, commonly known as "364 East Irving Park Road".
         Lots 7 and 8 in Block 17 in H. O. Stone and Company's 2nd Irving Park
Addition to Wood Dale, Illinois, commonly known as "330 East Irving Park Road".
         Lots 7 and 8 in Block 18 in H. O. Stone and Company's 2nd Irving Park
Addition to Wood Dale, Illinois, commonly known as "360 East Irving Park Road".
         Lots 9 and 10 in Block 18 in H. O. Stone and Company's 2nd Irving Park
Addition to Wood Dale, Illinois, commonly known as "356 East Irving Park Road".
         Dominion Properties, commonly known as "271 South Addison Road"
Assessment Plat in the Southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 40, Range 11,
East of the Third Principal Meridian.
         The driveway in front of Dominion Properties, commonly known as "465
West Dominion Drive".
(Ord. 2023, 6-15-2000)
      11.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in or
upon the following described parcels of real estate:
         Lots 21-27 in H. O. Stone & Co. 2nd Addition, commonly known as "333
East Irving Park Road".
         Lots 12, 13, 14 and 15 in H. O. Stone 2nd Irving Park Avenue, commonly
known as "140 North Hemlock".
      12.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in Lots
9 and 10 in Wood Dale Acres, commonly known as "350 North Wood Dale Road".
      13.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in or
upon the following described parcels of real estate:
         Lot 1 in Allison Resubdivision, commonly known as "493 Park Lane".
         Lot 2 in Allison Resubdivision, commonly known as "491 Park Lane".
         Lot 3 in Allison Resubdivision, commonly known as "475 Park Lane".
         Lot 4 in Allison Resubdivision, commonly known as "473 Park Lane".
         Lot 5 in Allison Resubdivision, commonly known as "455 Park Lane".
         Lot 6 in Allison Resubdivision, commonly known as "453 Park Lane".
         Lot 7 in Allison Resubdivision, commonly known as "292 Station Drive".
         Lot 9 in Allison Resubdivision, commonly known as "454 George Street".
         Lot 10 in Allison Resubdivision, commonly known as "456 George
Street".
         Lot 11 in Allison Resubdivision, commonly known as "472 George
Street".
         Lot 12 in Allison Resubdivision, commonly known as "474 George
Street".
      14.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in Lot
"C" in Sherwood Unit No. 1, commonly known as "294 Station Drive".
      15.   All access lanes and driveways for ingress and egress in Lot 5 in
Sherwood Forest Unit No. 1, commonly known as "492" and "494 George Street".
      16.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in or
upon the following described parcels of real estate:
         Lots 7 and 8 in Branigar's 2nd Wood Dale Acres, commonly known as "380
West Irving Park Road".
         Lots 10 and 11 in Branigar's 2nd Wood Dale Acres, commonly known as
"396 West Irving Park Road".
      17.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress upon the
area bounded by Irving Park on the North, George Street on the South, Station
Drive on the East, and Prospect Avenue on the West which includes Repentny's
Plat of survey, F.S.L.I.C. Assessment Plat, National Bank of Austin as Trustee
under Trust No. 4113, and Apollo Savings as Trustee under Trust No. 143982
which is commonly known as the "Georgetown Shopping Center" in the Southwest
quarter of Section 9 in Township 40 North, Range 11, East of the Third
Principal Meridian.
      18.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in or
upon the lot commonly known as 260 West Irving Park Road, legally described as
follows: Lot 91 (except the South 175.0 feet measured on the rear lot lines) in
Branigar's Wood Dale Acres, being a subdivision in Sections 9 and 16, Township
40 North, Range 11, East of the Third Principal Meridian, according to the plat
thereof recorded November 7, 1934, in DuPage County, Illinois.
      19.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in or
upon the following described parcels of real estate:
         The East 40 feet of Lot 3 and the West 80 feet of Lot 4 in Wood Dale
Vista Industrial Park, commonly known as "301 East Beinoris Drive".
         Lot 2 (except the North 120 feet and the East 20 feet thereof) in Wood
Dale Vista Industrial Park, commonly known as "725 North Central".
         Lot 8 (except the West 60 feet thereof) and all of Lot 9 in Wood Dale
Vista Industrial Park, commonly known as "345-355 East Beinoris".
         Lot 2 in Rangvald T. Thompson's Subdivision, commonly known as "281
East Beinoris".
      20.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress in or
upon the following described real estate:
         Lot 2 in Madison DeVaugh Subdivision, commonly known as "338 Grove
Street".
         Lot 3 in Madison DeVaugh Subdivision, commonly known as "342 Grove
Street".
         Lot 4 in Madison DeVaugh Subdivision, commonly known as "350 Grove
Street".
         Lot 5 in Madison DeVaugh Subdivision, commonly known as "344 Grove
Street".
      21.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress upon the
East 40 feet of Lot 3 and the West 80 feet of Lot 4 in Wood Dale Vista
Industrial Park, commonly known as "301 East Beinoris Drive"; and the lots
commonly known as "335, 345 and 366 East Beinoris Drive", legally described as
follows: Lot 7 (except the East 20 feet thereof) and the East 20 feet of Lot 8
as well as the West 60 feet of Lot 8; as well as Lot 10--all of the foregoing
Lots being located in Wood Dale Vista Industrial Park, being a resubdivision in
the North half of Section 10, township 40 North, Range 11, East of the Third
Principal Meridian, according to the plat thereof recorded October 8, 1975, as
document No. R75-54897, in DuPage County Illinois.
      22.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress upon the
lots commonly known as "789 North Central" and "757 North Central", legally
described as follows: Lot 1 and Lot 3 in Hirsch's Resubdivision, being a
resubdivision of Lot 33 in Klefstad's Wood Dale Industrial Park Unit 1, a
subdivision of Sections 3 and 10, Township 40 North, Range 11, East of the
Third Principal Meridian, in the Village of Wood Dale, in DuPage County,
Illinois.
      23.   All access lanes and driveways used for ingress and egress upon the
lot commonly known as "371 East Beinoris Drive", legally described as follows:
Lot 1 in Rangvald T. Thompson's 2nd Resubdivision being a subdivision of Lot 8
(except the West 60 feet thereof) and Lot 9 in Wood Dale Vista Industrial Park,
being a resubdivision in the North half of Section 10, Township 40 North, Range
11, East of the Third Principal Meridian, in DuPage County, Illinois.
      24.   Lot 102 in Oak Villas Estates, commonly known as "450 East
Montrose".
      25.   Lot 12 in Wood Dale Vista Industrial Park, commonly known as "720-
730 North Edgewood".
      26.   Upon the access lane and driveway of the "Wood Dale Public Library
Building", which driveway is generally located perpendicular to and west of
Wood Dale Road upon the land legally described as follows: Lot 23 (except the
South 100.0 feet of the East 222.70 feet thereof) and Lot 24 (except the West
300.0 feet thereof) in Wood Dale Acres Subdivision being a Subdivision in
Section 9, Township 40 North, Range 11 East of the Third Principal Meridian,
according to the plat thereof recorded December 17, 1915, as Document 123296,
in DuPage County, Illinois.
(Ord. 1312, 9-5-1985)
      27.   The "Target Store" located at 401 West Irving Park Road as follows:
         A 12 foot wide fire lane running the entire length of the front (south
wall) of the building;
         A 20 foot area directly in front of the north sprinkler post indicator
valves.
(Ord. 1757, 7-7-1994)
Sec. 15.2016. Schedule XVI - Load Limitations.
In accord with section 15.1711 of this chapter, the following streets under the
regulatory jurisdiction of the city are available for use by vehicles exceeding
eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds but not exceeding the statutory maximum gross
vehicle weight (GVW):
 
Street From To
None
 
(Ord. 2019, 6-1-2000)
Sec. 15.2017. Schedule XVII - Prohibited Operation Of Certain Vehicles Upon
Certain Streets.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate a
commercial vehicle, except as provided under section
15.1711 of this chapter, upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
Name Of Street Entire Jurisdiction Unless Noted Below
Name Of Street        Entire Jurisdiction Unless Noted Below
Apollo Court
Arlene Drive
Ash Avenue            Elmhurst Road to Irving Park Road
Ash Avenue            Potter Street to Dunlay
Aspen Road
Brookhurst Lane
Butternut Avenue
Carter Avenue
Carter Court
Catalpa Avenue
Cedar Avenue
Cedar Street
Center Street
Central Avenue        Haynes to Ethel Lane
Century Drive
Charmille Lane
Commercial Street
Cypress Court
Dalewood Avenue
Deerpath Road
Division Street
Dunlay Court
Dunlay Street
Edgebrook Road
Edgewood Avenue       Foster Avenue to Oak Meadows Drive
Elizabeth Street
Elmhurst Road
Elmwood Avenue
Ethel Lane
Florina Court
Forest Glen Road
Forest Preserve Drive
Forest View Avenue
Foster Avenue
Front Street
George Street
Gilbert Drive
Grove Street
Hackberry Court
Harvey Avenue
Hemlock Avenue
Heritage Drive
Hiawatha Trail
Hillcrest
Homestead Street
Hoover Drive
Irmen Drive
Iroquois Trail
Janis Lane
Juniper Drive
Knollwood Court
Knollwood Drive
Lilac Lane
Lincoln Court
Manning Drive
Maple Avenue
Mary Jane Lane
Mill Road
Miller Lane
Montclare Lane
Montrose Avenue
Mulberry Lane
Murray Drive
Murray Lane
Oak Avenue
Oakwood Drive
Orchard Drive
Paramount Drive
Park Lane
Pine Avenue
Pine Tree Lane
Poplar Avenue
Potter Street         From Catalpa west to Mill Road
Prospect Avenue       From George Street to Mary Jane Lane
River Avenue
Roberts Lane
Robin Lane
Roy Drive
Royal Oaks Drive
Sarah Drive
School Street
Sherwood Drive
Spring Oaks Drive
Spruce Street         Between Montrose Avenue and Second Avenue
                      Between the south line of the first alley located south
Station Drive         of and parallel to Irving Park Boulevard and the
                      southerly corporate limits of the city
Stoneham Street
Sunnyside Avenue
Sunset Drive
Victoria Lane
Walnut Avenue
Welter Drive
Windsor Avenue
Wisteria Court
Woodbine Court
Woodbine Drive
Woodlane
 
(Ord. 1724, 10-7-1993; amd. Ord. O-02-012, 5-2-2002)
CHAPTER 16
CABLE, VIDEO AND SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
ARTICLE I
GENERAL
SECTION:
16.101. Rules And Definitions
16.102. Application To Existing Franchise Agreements
Sec. 16.101. Rules And Definitions.
   A.   Rules Of Word Construction: The language set forth in the text of this
chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of
construction:
      1.   The singular number includes the plural number and the plural the
singular.
      2.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
      3.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter. (Ord. O-07-
038, 11-15-2007)
   B.   Definitions: Definitions for purposes of this article as pertaining to
cable and video are contained in section 16.302 of this chapter. (Ord. O-18-
029, 8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018)
Sec. 16.102. Application To Existing Franchise Agreements.
This chapter shall have no effect on any existing franchise agreement unless
specifically set forth herein or otherwise agreed to by the parties thereto.
(Ord. O-07-038, 11-15-2007)
ARTICLE II
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
SECTION:
16.201. Definitions
16.202. Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
16.203. PEG/Access Support Fee Imposed
16.204. Applicable Principles
16.205. No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
16.206. Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
16.207. Late Fees/Payments
Sec. 16.201. Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois Commerce Commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the City.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1. Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2. Event based charges for cable service or video service, including, but
not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3. Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4. Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5. Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6. Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7. A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
City. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the City
divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional
or national compensation arrangement.
      8. Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service with respect
to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for promotion or
exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network, such as a "home
shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this definition.
      9. In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10. The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1. Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
      2. Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the amount
of gross revenues received by the holder of the State issued authorization to
the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is attributable to cable
service or video service.
      3. Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
      4. The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the City and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
      5. Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, Federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including Sales and Use Taxes.
      6. Security deposits collected from subscribers.
      7. Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors for
merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the cable
service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
PEG: Public, education and governmental.
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The amount paid under this article and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d) by the holder to the City for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this article and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to a City for the service areas within
its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right-of-way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. O-07-039, 11-15-2007)
Sec. 16.202. Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed.
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the City.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be specified
in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   C.   Notice To The City: The holder shall notify the City at least ten (10)
days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the City.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the City. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence on
the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt of
the ordinance adopting this article by the holder. The ordinance adopting this
article shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the
holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-401(b)(6) to the City.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the City in which a fee is paid.
   G.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection B of this section. (Ord. O-07-039, 11-15-2007)
Sec. 16.203. PEG/Access Support Fee Imposed.
   A.   PEG Fee Imposed: A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any
holder providing cable service or video service in the City in addition to the
fee imposed pursuant to subsection
16.202B of the master fee schedule.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed hereby
shall be specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   C.   Payment: The holder shall pay the PEG access support fee to the City or
to the entity designated by the City to manage PEG access. The holder's
liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date set forth
in subsection
16.202D of this article.
   D.   Payment Due: The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar
quarter. If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked.
Each payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation
of the fee.
   E.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) shall pay, at the time they would have been due, all monetary
payments for PEG access that would have been due during the remaining term of
the agreement had it not been terminated pursuant to that section. All payments
made by an incumbent cable operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be
credited against the fees that that operator owes under subsection B of this
section. (Ord. O-07-039, 11-15-2007)
Sec. 16.204. Applicable Principles.
All determinations and calculations under this article shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. O-07-039, 11-15-2007)
Sec. 16.205. No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder.
Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the City, including any tax that is
or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A State issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the City's Simplified
Municipal Telecommunications Tax or any other tax as it applies to any
telephone service provided by the holder. A State issued authorization shall
not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the local
unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. O-07-039, 11-15-
2007)
Sec. 16.206. Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider.
   A.   Audit Requirement: The City will notify the holder of the requirements
it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to submit to an
audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the same
requirements the City imposes on other cable service or video service providers
in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to recompute
any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the City. If all
local franchises between the City and cable operator terminate, the audit
requirements shall be those adopted by the City pursuant to the Local
Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et
seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an accord that
the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the City's submission of an invoice for the
sum. (Ord. O-07-039, 11-15-2007)
Sec. 16.207. Late Fees/Payments.
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this City pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights
Act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. O-07-039, 11-15-2007)
ARTICLE III
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION:
16.301. Purpose And Scope
16.302. Definitions
16.303. Annual Registration Required
16.304. Permit Required; Applications And Fees
16.305. Action On Permit Applications
16.306. Effect Of Permit
16.307. Revised Permit Drawings
16.308. Insurance
16.309. Indemnification
16.310. Security
16.311. Permit Suspension And Revocation
16.312. Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
16.313. General Construction Standards
16.314. Traffic Control
16.315. Location Of Facilities
16.316. Construction Methods And Materials
16.317. Vegetation Control
16.318. Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
16.319. Cleanup And Restoration
16.320. Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
16.321. Variances
16.322. Penalties
16.323. Enforcement
16.324. Colocation Of City Infrastructure
Sec. 16.301. Purpose And Scope.
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights- of-way within the City's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the City
rights-of-way and the City as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this article, the City intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the City and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
City's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the City's residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
   C.   Facilities Subject To This Article: This article applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the City, except for small cell wireless
facilities which are subject to the provisions set forth in article VI of this
chapter. A facility lawfully established prior to the effective date of this
article may continue to be maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as
presently constructed and located, except as may be otherwise provided in any
applicable franchise, license or similar agreement. (Ord. O-18-029, 8-16-2018,
eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018)
   D.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The City, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the City
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the City enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the City may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
article.
   E.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the City, such franchise, license or similar agreement
shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any lawful
renewal or extension thereof. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this article and article VI of this
chapter and/or the provisions of any franchise, license or similar agreement
between the City and any telecommunications provider, the provisions of such
franchise, license or similar agreement shall govern and control during the
term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or extension thereof. (Ord. O-18-
029, 8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018)
   F.   Conflicts With Other Code Provisions: This article supersedes all or
parts of all articles or other Code provisions adopted prior hereto that are in
conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   G.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
article, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this article to the
maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws or regulations.
   H.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The City shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this article and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this article when the City so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the City
to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.302. Definitions.
As used in this article and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to it in
92 Illinois Administrative Code section 530.30, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this article.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CITY: The City of Wood Dale.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The Municipal Code of the City of Wood Dale.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right- of-way lines of a
right-of-way.
DIRECTOR OF CITY SERVICES: The City Director of City Services or his or her
designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY: For the purposes of this article, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENGINEER: The Director of City Services or his or her designee.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of- way under this article. For
purposes of this article, the term "facility" shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the City.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Director of City Services (Director of Public Works) to pose an unreasonable
and imminent risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to
the ecological balance of the environment, including, but not limited to,
explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases,
poisons, etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any Federal or State law, statute or
regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois Highway Code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and Video
Competition Law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois Commerce Commission.
IDOT: Illinois Department of Transportation.
JULIE: The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right- of-way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right-of-way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
16.304 and 16.305 of this article.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the City. If no
time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, State or Federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT-OF-WAY OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the City has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the City. "Right-of-way" or "rights-of-way" shall not include any
real or personal City property that is not specifically described in the
previous sentence and shall not include City buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right-of-way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section 16.310 of
this article.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the City through an open video system as defined in the rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as now or
hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this article.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201(v).
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. O-07-042,
12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.303. Annual Registration Required.
Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the City shall register on
January 1 of each year with the Director of City Services, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right-of-
way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and
evidence of insurance as required in section
16.308 of this article, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. O-07-
042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.304. Permit Required; Applications And Fees.
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this article)
any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any City
right-of-way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new
facility, 3) disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this article), or 4)
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, under, across or within the right-of-way, without first
filing an application with the Director of City Services and obtaining a permit
from the City therefor, except as otherwise provided in this article. No permit
shall be required for installation and maintenance of service connections to
customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the right-of-way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
article shall be filed on a form provided by the City and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the City may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the City:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the City and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the City finds that additional information or assurances are
needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
16.308 of this article;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the Security Fund as required in section
16.310 of this article;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
article (see section
16.321 of this article); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
City.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
and the City of Wood Dale have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the City of Wood Dale and any other
applicable jurisdiction, have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the City within thirty (30) days after
the change necessitating the amendment. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this article shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount as specified in the master fee schedule.
No application fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is
paying the Municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 16.305. Action On Permit Applications.
   A.   City Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Director of
City Services within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does
not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the Director of City Services shall reject such application in
writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the Director of City Services is
satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this section
and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Director of
City Services shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all
instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the Director of City Services, that the construction proposed
under the application shall be in full compliance with the requirements of this
section.
   B.   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the City
that it intends to commence work governed by this article for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the City not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The Director of
City Services shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the Director of City Services fails to provide
such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within
either: a) ten (10) days after service of notice to the City by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction or b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this section.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the City, where a permit
is required for work pursuant to section
16.304 of this article, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
City an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a State issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the City, unless otherwise acted upon by the City, provided
the holder has complied with applicable City codes, ordinances, and
regulations. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.306. Effect Of Permit.
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the City authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this article on City rights-of-way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of- way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this section shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this section prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the City with such City representatives
in attendance as the City deems necessary. The meeting shall be for the purpose
of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing special considerations
necessary in the areas where work will occur, including, without limitation,
presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area and their
locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of rights-of-
way by the public during construction, and access and egress by adjacent
property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the City
does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of the
City and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations. (Ord.
O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.307. Revised Permit Drawings.
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the City within ninety (90) days
after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this City, it shall be treated as a request
for variance in accordance with section 16.321 of this article. If the City
denies the request for a variance, then the permittee shall either remove the
facility from the right- of-way or modify the facility so that it conforms to
the permit and submit revised drawings or plans therefor. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-
2007)
Sec. 16.308. Insurance.
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the City, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents,
and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in subsections A1
and A2 of this section.
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this article to the City within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the City.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this article shall contain the following endorsement:
   It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by
the City, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the City Manager of such intent to cancel or not to
renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the City of said notice, and in no event
later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the City evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this article.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the City evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-
insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under subsection
A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private self-
insurer" under the Workers' Compensation Act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the City and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
(All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.) (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-
2007)
Sec. 16.309. Indemnification.
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the City and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this article or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
article by the City, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.310. Security.
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this section;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the City occasioned by
the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the City issued pursuant to this section; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the City may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this section including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this section to perform that the City must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the City from the permittee pursuant to
this section or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the City in the
form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the City, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
City. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this subsection
shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
City and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the City of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the City and within the State
of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Director of City Services, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs that the City estimates are likely to be
incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the City, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Director of City
Services may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post
a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection C for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The City, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written notice
clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights
under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund, provided
that the permittee has not reimbursed the City for such amount within the
fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the City for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the City has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this article that the City
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the Security Fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the City that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund,
the permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in
subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the City,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the City, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the City for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
section or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the City to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the City as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the City with respect to the
Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the City, whether reserved
by this article or otherwise authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or
exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect any other
right the City may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City shall not be
entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its rights which
may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.311. Permit Suspension And Revocation.
   A.   City Right To Revoke Permit: The City may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this article for one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this article;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The City shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this article
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the City, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the City with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the City, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the City within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-of-way
to the satisfaction of the City providing written proof of such removal to the
City within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of revocation.
The City may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time periods
provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the City may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A of this
section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the City or its
designee may, at the option of the City: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2) upon
not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the subject
facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days' notice to
the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and
property of the City. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the City
for all costs of removal. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.312. Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status.
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the City no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right-of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this article, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the City's right-of-
way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. O-07-042,
12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.313. General Construction Standards.
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right-of- way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      1.   "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. Adm.
Code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
article, the Director of City Services shall determine, in the exercise of
sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be
final. If requested, the Director of City Services shall state which standard
or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a
facility in the future. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.314. Traffic Control.
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The City's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this Code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable Federal, State, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section 16.320 of this article, the utility shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the City. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.315. Location Of Facilities.
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      1.   No Interference With City Facilities: No utility facilities shall be
placed in any location if the Director of City Services determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
City's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the City's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways: The City is not approving
any new overhead facilities. Notwithstanding this prohibition, in the event of
required replacement or updating of existing facilities, or in the event
alternatives are not available:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of- way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right-of-way line or as near as practicable.
         d.   City requirements related to appropriate line spacing are met.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways: The City does not allow open trenching.
Rather, all utilities are to be installed by directional bore method, unless
this option is not available. As set forth further herein, a separate casing or
carrier pipe for the proposed utility must be used for all road crossings. The
carrier pipe shall extend a minimum of five feet (5') beyond the edge of the
paved surface.
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of City highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: If currently existing, and
in need of replacement or repair, an overhead power or communication facility
may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right-of-
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The City may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current Federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights-Of-Way: The City may
require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are not
highways, rather than within particular highways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The City may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      2.   The City may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   F.   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is prohibited unless
within the limits of the existing overhead facilities.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The City may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. O-07-
042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.316. Construction Methods And Materials.
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Director
of City Services from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking
shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or
jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly
marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the City to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching shall be avoided when at all possible. If
necessary, trenching for facility installation, repair, or maintenance on
rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable portions of section
603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the Director of City Services.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the City to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Director of City Services, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
engineer.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts are prohibited, unless it presents the
only option for facility installation or repair. Pavement cuts shall be
permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed to
traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
16.321 of this article, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Director of City Services.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the City.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
City.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or City approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the City. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                      Minimum Cover
Electric lines                        30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service 18 inches to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m,
lines                                 as determined by City)
Gas or petroleum products             30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                            Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                      protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or       Sufficient cover to provide freeze
drainage line                         protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within City rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois Administrative Code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled
"rules for construction of electric power and communications lines", and the
National Electrical Safety Code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: New overhead facilities are prohibited.
However, if same do exist, the following standards shall apply: Overhead power
or communication facilities shall use single pole construction and, where
practicable, joint use of poles shall be used. Utilities shall make every
reasonable effort to design the installation so guys and braces will not be
needed. Variances may be allowed if there is no feasible alternative and if
guywires are equipped with guy guards for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the City. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a City approved
manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of Pipeline
Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, part 192 - transportation of
natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum Federal safety standards (49 CFR
section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois".
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the engineer (Director of Public Works). With the
approval of the engineer (Director of Public Works), shrubbery surrounding the
appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation free area. The housing for
ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the
surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right-Of-Way: No material shall be stored on the
right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Director of City
Services. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross
arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to
and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be
obtained from the City.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the City
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the City, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the engineer (Director of Public
Works) when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the City, the hours of construction
are those set forth in this Code.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the City shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The City will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the City or by
JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act 1 . (Ord. O-07-
042, 12-6-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
Sec. 16.317. Vegetation Control.
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the City as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this article.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The City will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society Of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The City may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The City may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the following subsection, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the City for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the engineer that such spraying is the only practicable method of vegetation
control. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.318. Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities.
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the City,
a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the Corporate Authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any City improvement in or upon, or the operations of the City in or upon,
the rights-of-way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the City, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this article; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The City retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the City, as the City may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the Municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior
to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the City, the utility shall notify the City within ninety (90)
days. Following receipt of such notice the City may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the Director of City Services
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the City does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
City, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.319. Cleanup And Restoration.
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights-of-way
are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the City. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the Director of City Services. Such cleanup
and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding,
resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right-of- way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project. The time period provided in this section may be extended by the
Director of City Services for good cause shown. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.320. Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance.
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the City and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Director of City Services or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the City police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the City a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right- of-way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.321. Variances.
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this article must do so in writing to the Director of City
Services as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each
provision of this article from which a variance is requested and the reasons
why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The Director of City Services shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this article
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The Director of City Services may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Director of City Services may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this section but which carry out the
purposes of this article.
   E.   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Director
of City Services under the provisions of this article shall have the right to
appeal to the City Council, or such other board or commission as it may
designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the City
Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The City Council shall commence its consideration of
the appeal at the City Council's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at
least seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The City Council shall
timely decide the appeal. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.322. Penalties.
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this Code. There may be times when the City will
incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the utility
will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this article. Unless
the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the
requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the City's costs of
damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or
removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other
administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit related
cost apportionment of the City. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that
does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord. O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.323. Enforcement.
Nothing in this article shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the City may have for enforcement of this article. (Ord.
O-07-042, 12-6-2007)
Sec. 16.324. Colocation Of City Infrastructure.
The City recognizes that it is within its police power to preserve the physical
integrity of its streets and highways, control the orderly flow of vehicles and
pedestrians, and efficiently manage the gas, electric, water, cable, broadband,
telephone, and other facilities that crisscross its streets and public rights-
of-way. It is the City's policy to efficiently use public rights-of-way for a
variety of infrastructure and utilities in order to provide public services;
increase the opportunities for access to traffic control, communication, and
broadband services; limit the frequency of street closures and cutting of
public streets; and reduce road degradation caused by repeated boring and
trenching of public rights-of-way. To this end, the City requires any
individual or company (Permit Holder) seeking to install a utility system,
including but not limited to fiber optic cables or other private similar
systems, that involves directional boring or open trenching within a public
right-of-way that extends for more than 500 feet in length to collocate and
install City conduit simultaneously with any individual or company's
installation of a utility system in compliance with the following:
   A.   Applications to install a utility system that involves directional
boring or open trenching within a public right-of-way associated with the same
improvement shall not be divided into multiple applications for the purpose of
evading obligations for colocation of City conduit.
   B.   The City shall not be restricted in its use of City conduit installed
through a colocation pursuant to this Section.
   C.   The City will review all permit applications in a competitively neutral
manner and make all permit decisions based on substantial evidence.
   D.   The City may, upon initial review of the permit application, determine
that the proposed installation of a utility system that involves directional
boring or open trenching within a public right-of-way does not demonstrate a
need for colocation of City infrastructure.
   E.   For any installation of a utility system that involves directional
boring or open trenching within a public right-of-way that requires colocation
of City conduit, the City shall, as a condition of the issuance of the Permit
or continued validity of a Permit, require the Entity/Permit Holder to install
City conduit with tracer wire and associated infrastructure, as identified by
the City, concurrent with the installation of the Permit Holder's
infrastructure. The requirement for the Entity/Permit Holder to install City
conduit with tracer wire and the associated infrastructure shall be completed
after the City has reviewed and approved all estimated costs associated with
the co-location of the City conduit. The Permit Holder shall install the City
conduit with tracer wire adjacent to the Permit Holder's infrastructure and
within the same bore or trench alignment.
   F.   The City will bear all costs associated with the colocation, including
the City conduit, pull boxes, and all other materials and infrastructure to be
installed, including the incremental labor and equipment cost incurred by the
Permit Holder (or its contractor or subcontractor) that are reasonably (true
industry costs) and directly attributable to the required colocation of City
conduit, materials and infrastructure.
   G.   A completion inspection with the City's designated representative is
required. When a colocation of City conduit is required, this completion
inspection shall include physical verification of the installed City conduit.
   H.   Upon the City's request, the Permit Holder shall submit to the City
signed as-built documentation of the City's conduit and provide the City with a
City-approved bill-of-sale or similar document evidencing City conduit
ownership following the colocation. The as- built documentation should also be
delivered in the form of 3D GIS data, to within a few inches' accuracy, that
can be imported into the City's GIS system.
   I.   The City may waive Application Fees set forth in the master fee
Schedule for any individual or company seeking to install a utility system that
involves directional boring or open trenching within a public right-of-way
associated with a City colocation project.
   J.   All applicable fees to restore and/or repair pavement, as establish by
the City or as set forth in the City's master fee schedule, shall apply unless
and until a written waiver is obtained from the City.
   K.   A Permit Holder may appeal a colocation condition imposed by the City
in accordance with the appeals procedure set forth in Section
16.321 of this Code.
   L.   The Colocation of City Infrastructure with the installation of a
utility system, including but not limited to fiber optic cables or other
private similar systems, that involves directional boring or open trenching
within a public right-of-way shall comply with all the requirements of:
chapter 6, article XI, "Streets, Sidewalks and Public Ways", of this Code;
chapter 6, article XII, "Excavations of Public Rights-of-Way", of this Code;
and
chapter 16, article III, "Construction of Utility Facilities in Rights-of-Way",
of this Code. (Ord. O-20-037, 12-17-2020)
ARTICLE IV
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
SECTION:
16.401. Customer Service And Privacy Protection Law
16.402. Enforcement
16.403. Penalties
16.404. Customer Credits
Sec. 16.401. Customer Service And Privacy Protection Law.
   A.   Adoption: The regulations of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22-501
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable or video
providers offering services within the City's boundaries.
   B.   Amendments: Any amendment to the Cable and Video Customer Protection
Law that becomes effective after the effective date of this article shall be
incorporated into this section by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the Municipality's boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this article by reference without
formal action by the Corporate Authorities of the City. (Ord. O-07-040, 11-15-
2007)
Sec. 16.402. Enforcement.
The City does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all of the
customer service and privacy protection standards of the Cable and Video
Protection Law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
City. (Ord. O-07-040, 11-15-2007)
Sec. 16.403. Penalties.
The City, pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22-501(r)(1), does
hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the Cable
and Video Protection Law by cable or video providers in addition to the
penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a
competitively neutral basis as specified in the master fee schedule for each
day of the material breach, and shall not exceed an amount specified in the
master fee schedule for each occurrence of a material breach per customer.
(Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
   A.   "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
   B.   The City shall give the cable or video provider written notice of any
alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least thirty
(30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified material
breach.
   C.   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in subsection B of this
section.
This section shall apply to all cable or video system providers, and shall
supersede any other similar provision of this Code. (Ord. O-07-040, 11-15-2007)
Sec. 16.404. Customer Credits.
The City hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations. Those
credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/22-501(s) and applied on the statement issued to the customer for
the next billing cycle following the violation or following the discovery of
the violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for providing the
credits and the customer is under no obligation to request the credit. (Ord. O-
07-040, 11-15-2007)
ARTICLE V
FIBER OPTIC CABLES OR OTHER PRIVATE SIMILAR SYSTEMS IN RIGHTS-OF- WAY
SECTION:
16.501. Installation Of Fiber Optic Cables Or Other Private Similar Systems In
Rights-Of-Way
Sec. 16.501. Installation Of Fiber Optic Cables Or Other Private Similar
Systems In Rights-Of-Way.
   A.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The City, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require fiber optic cable or similar
utilities to enter into a franchise, license or similar agreement for the
privilege of locating their facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under,
across, or within the City rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by
law to enter into such an agreement may request that the City enter into such
an agreement. In such an agreement, the City may provide for terms and
conditions which include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Compliance with all the requirements of chapter 6, article XI,
"Streets, Sidewalks And Public Ways", of this Code;
      2.   A term of years up to ten (10) years;
      3.   Require payment of a right-of-way fee. Any individual or company
seeking to install a utility system in the right-of-way, including, but not
limited to, a fiber optic cable system, shall pay the following fees to the
City:
         a.   There shall be no right-of-way fee assessed for a fiber optic
connection between buildings owned by the same party and when intended to serve
only the one party or a subsidiary thereof.
         b.   An annual fee as specified in the master fee schedule for the
installation of a fiber optic cable system which is installed by a private
vendor in the public rights-of-way for the use of multiple individuals or
businesses. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
ARTICLE VI
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
16.601. Purpose And Scope
16.602. Definitions
16.603. Zoning
16.604. Permit, Application Process
16.605. Application Fees, Bond
16.606. Annual License Fee
16.607. Pole Attachment Agreement
16.608. Collocation Requirements And Conditions
16.609. Pre-Existing Agreements
16.610. Abandonment
16.611. Dispute Resolution
16.612. Indemnification
16.613. Insurance
16.614. Maintenance
16.615. Permit Suspension And Revocation
16.616. Exceptions To Applicability
16.617. Severability
Sec. 16.601. Purpose And Scope.
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights- of-way within the City's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the City exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act, FCC Order, and other applicable federal or state
laws or regulations.
   B.   Conflicts with State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
article, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
article to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. O-18-029, 8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018; amd.
Ord. O-20-037, 12-17-2020)
Sec. 16.602. Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Codes as adopted and amended by the City in chapter 12,
articles III and IV of this Code, and including the National Electric Safety
Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the City for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
AUTHORITY: The City of Wood Dale that has jurisdiction and control for use of
public rights-of way as provided by the Illinois Highway Code for placements
within public rights-of-way or has zoning or land use control for placements
not within public rights-of-way.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended;
information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FCC ORDER: The FCC's Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order, WT Docket
No. 17-79, WC Docket No. 17-84, FCC-18-133, released September 27, 2018, which
is incorporated herein by this reference.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the City
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office is pending.
IDOT: The Illinois Department of Transportation.
LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
local ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
MONOPOLE: A standing antenna support structure with no guy wires placed
directly on the ground to support one or more small wireless facilities.
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the City in public
rights-of-way.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by the City to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PUBLIC ACT 100-0585 or ACT: The State of Illinois, Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act, which is incorporated herein by this reference.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of-way does not include City- owned aerial lines.
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE: The repair or replacement of existing equipment of the
same size and type for which no changes in wiring are made.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
UNACCEPTABLE INTERFERENCE: Any level of radio frequency (RF) interference from
a source outside of the City's public safety communications network that has
the effect of partially or completely impeding aural and/or visual signals
received or transmitted by City personnel. Any RF interference from a wireless
provider as defined by this Ordinance and state law, shall be measured,
corrected, and eliminated in accordance with the requirements of Section 15(d)
(6)(A) of Public Act 100-0585.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the City.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
O-18-029, 8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018; amd. Ord. O-20-037, 12-17-
2020)
Sec. 16.603. Zoning.
Small wireless facilities shall be classified as permitted uses and shall not
be subject to zoning review, if collocated in rights-of-way in any zoning
district. Small wireless facilities shall be permitted outside rights-of-way in
the following zoning districts: C-1, C-2 and C-3, TCB and I-1 and I-2, as those
districts are defined in chapter 17 of this Code, the City's unified
development ordinance (UDO). In all other zoning districts, if the small
wireless facility is located outside the right-of-way, the City's usual zoning
approvals, processes and restrictions shall apply, if zoning approval,
processes or restrictions are required by chapter 17, article IV of this Code.
(Ord. O-18-029, 8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018)
Sec. 16.604. Permit, Application Process.
   A.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the
City to collocate a small wireless facility.
   B.   Permit Not Required: The City shall not require an application,
approval or permit, or require any fees or other charges, from a communications
service provider authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
      1.   Routine maintenance;
      2.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities that
are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless provider
notifies the City in writing at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment, including: a) equipment type and model numbers, for the replacement
of equipment consistent with the equipment specifications information required
on a permit application for original installation; and b) information
sufficient to establish that the replacement is substantially similar. The City
has the sole right and responsibility to determine if a proposed small wireless
facility is substantially similar to the existing wireless facility; or
      3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
   C.   Application Information: An application shall be received and
processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the wireless provider
providing the following information to the City, together with the City's Small
Cell Facilities Permit Application:
      1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
      2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or utility
pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its immediate
surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each proposed
small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility poles or
structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the completed
facility;
      3.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
      4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
      5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
      6.   Certification of compliance with applicable FCC regulations. This
includes the submission of a site specific non-ionizing electromagnetic
radiation (NIER) report for the small wireless facility equipment type and
model endorsed by a radiofrequency engineer licensed in the State of Illinois,
including a certification that the network node complies with all radiation and
electromagnetic standards. The report shall specify approach distances to the
general public and occupational workers at the ground and antenna centerline
levels. The report shall include instructions regarding powering off the
equipment or contact information for a person who can power off the equipment.
No significant changes to the power, location, RF emission patterns and/or
emitting frequencies may be made without prior notification and approval.
However, non-substantive changes, for example, in-kind replacements of
transmitters of the same frequency, radiation patterns and power are permitted.
The City retains the right to independently verify the RF patterns as
installed;
      7.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge;
      8.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the City, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation; and
      9.   Application fee(s) as set forth in section
16.605 of this article.
      10.   The City retains the right to require an applicant to pay the fees
and costs of any consultant engaged by the City to assist in the review of
plans, applications, reports, inspections, and/or testing.
   D.   Application Process: The City shall process applications as follows:
      1.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure. For all new pole installations, the
City retains the right to require a second applicant for the same general space
to install a new pole capable of collocating both applicants internally in the
pole, where technically feasible and financially reasonable. The first
applicant is required to allow the subsequent applicant to replace the pole
with a multi-cell pole. The original pole shall be made available to the
installing applicant to salvage. If not retrieved in 30 days the pole shall be
declared abandoned and disposed.
      2.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis by the City within sixty (60) days after the submission
of a completed application.
      3.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that includes
the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis by the City within ninety (90) days after the
submission of a completed application.
      4.   The City shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this article.
      If the City determines that applicable codes, ordinances or regulations
that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and conditions
contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be
replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the provider.
      The City shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific
code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based, and
send the documentation to the applicant.
      The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the City and
resubmit the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of
denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee.
The City shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days
after the applicant resubmits the application. Failure to resubmit the revised
application within thirty (30) days of denial shall require the applicant to
submit a new application with applicable fees, and recommencement of the City's
review period.
      Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies
cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not apply if the
cure requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
   E.   Completeness Of Application: Within ten (10) days after receiving an
application, the City shall determine whether the application is complete and
notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the City must
specifically identify the missing information.
   F.   Tolling: Small wireless facility shot clocks are reset, not just
tolled, if the City notifies the applicant within 10 days after submission that
the application is incomplete. For subsequent determinations of incompleteness,
the shot clock would toll-not reset-if the City provides written notice within
10 days that the supplemental submission did not provide the requested
information. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
      1.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the City; or
      2.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar emergency
that causes the delay.
   G.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty-five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the City may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The City may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
   H.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period of
not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the City makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or
the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable City codes
or any provision, condition or requirement contained in this article.
If the Act, FCC Order, or other applicable federal or state laws or regulations
are repealed, renewals of permits shall be subject to the applicable City code
provisions or regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
   I.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit applications,
supporting information and notices to the City by personal delivery to the City
Clerk, at City Hall, 404 N. Wood Dale Road, Wood Dale, IL 60190, or as
otherwise allowed by the City. Two (2) copies of all required documents shall
be provided, with all drawings to be submitted in a size no larger than 11 x
17. (Ord. O-18-029, 8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018; amd. Ord. O-20-
037, 12-17-2020)
Sec. 16.605. Application Fees, Bond.
Application fee(s) for small wireless facility applications are as specified
below. Bond and insurance requirements are as specified in the City's master
fee schedule.
   A.   The application fee for an application to collocate a small wireless
facility that includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be: (i) not
less than $1,000 one-time fee for each Small Wireless Facility addressed in an
application that includes a new utility pole; or (ii) established by the City
by resolution as a reasonable, non-discriminatory approximation of the City's
costs; or (iii) agreed upon by the City and a permittee in a Master Pole
Attachment Agreement.
   B.   The application fee for an application to collocate a small wireless
facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or
replacement of an existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be
(i) not less than $500 one-time fee for a single up-front application that
includes up to five Small Wireless Facilities, with an additional $100 for each
Small Wireless Facility beyond five; or (ii) established by the City by
resolution as a reasonable, non-discriminatory approximation of the City's
costs; or (iii) agreed upon by the City and a permittee in a Master Pole
Attachment Agreement.
   C.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local ordinance,
application fees to be paid shall be non-refundable.
   D.   A bond in the amount as specified in the City's master fee schedule is
required for each small wireless facility for the duration of each permit. A
cash bond is preferred, but a performance or surety bond is acceptable. A
letter of credit will not be accepted to meet this requirement. (Ord. O-18-029,
8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018; amd. Ord. O-20-037, 12-17-2020)
Sec. 16.606. Annual License Fee.
A wireless provider shall pay to the City an annual recurring license fee: (i)
not less than $270 per small wireless facility on a City utility pole located
in a right-of-way; or (ii) established by the City by resolution as a
reasonable, non-discriminatory approximation of the City's costs; or (iii)
agreed upon by the City and a permittee in a Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
The fee shall be payable on the first day after the first annual anniversary of
the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and on each annual
anniversary date thereafter. (Ord. O-18-029, 8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-
1-2018; amd. Ord. O-20-037, 12-17-2020)
Sec. 16.607. Pole Attachment Agreement.
In addition to providing a permit, to collocate a small wireless facility on a
Municipal utility pole, the City, by and through the City Council, and the
applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement, provided by the
City for the initial collocation. A copy of said Agreement is on file in the
City and incorporated herein by reference as exhibit A. For subsequent approved
permits to collocate on a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole,
the City, by and through the City Manager, or his designee, and the applicant
shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement
in a form approved by the City Manager for such purpose. (Ord. O-18-029, 8-16-
2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018)
Sec. 16.608. Collocation Requirements And Conditions.
   A.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The City may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the City's electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the City reasonably determines
that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
   B.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
article. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
   C.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
The City may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
   D.   Electric Distribution Or Transmission System: The wireless provider
shall not collocate small wireless facilities on City utility poles that are
part of an electric distribution or transmission system within the
communication worker safety zone of the pole or the electric supply zone of the
pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the City utility pole and on the top
of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider complies
with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   E.   Code Compliance: The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable
codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
Small wireless facilities must not result in human exposure to radio frequency
radiation in excess of applicable safety standards specified in 47 CFR Rule
1.1307(b). After transmitter and antenna system optimization, but prior to
unattended operations of the facility, the wireless provider or its
representative must conduct on-site post-installation RF emissions testing to
demonstrate actual compliance with the FCC OET Bulletin 65 RF emissions safety
rules for general population/uncontrolled RF exposure in all sectors. For this
testing, the transmitter shall be operating at maximum operating power, and the
testing shall occur outwards to a distance where the RF emissions no longer
exceed the uncontrolled/general population limit. The wireless provider shall
submit documentation of this testing within ninety (90) days after installation
of the facility. RF emissions testing shall be conducted annually and the
wireless provider shall submit documentation of this testing to the City within
ninety (90) days after the testing is completed.
   F.   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in the City’s Small Wireless Facilities Design Standards manual, a City
ordinance, written policy adopted by the City, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
   G.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this section, a wireless
provider shall not be required to collocate small wireless facilities on any
specific utility pole, or category of utility poles, or be required to
collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole. However, with
respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless facility
associated with a new utility pole, the City may propose that the small
wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within one hundred feet (100') of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the City, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the
criteria in this paragraph.
   H.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
      1.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the City, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the City, provided the City may designate which
intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height limitation
for such facility; or
      2.   Fifty feet (50') above ground level.
   I.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height for a
new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on which the
small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant shall apply
for a variance to the requirements set forth herein pursuant to the provisions
set forth in section 16.321 of this chapter.
   J.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by an agreement between the City and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground- mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
   K.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
   L.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
   M.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the City and the wireless provider agree to extend this
period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility pole or
by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided
the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days after
the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the
additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred sixty
(360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be void
unless the City grants an extension in writing to the applicant. (Ord. O-18-
029, 8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018; amd. Ord. O-20-037, 12-17-2020)
Sec. 16.609. Pre-Existing Agreements.
Existing agreements between the City and wireless providers that relate to the
collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way, including the
collocation of small wireless facilities on City utility poles, that are in
effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless facilities
collocated on the City's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to
the City before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable termination provisions
contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1, 2018, shall comply
with this article.
A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the City on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the City
makes available under this article for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the City
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the City's utility
poles pursuant to applications submitted to the City before the wireless
provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this paragraph.
(Ord. O-18-029, 8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018)
Sec. 16.610. Abandonment.
A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period of
twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety (90) days after receipt
of written notice from the City notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the City to the owner at the last known address of the wireless
provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety (90) days
of such notice, the City may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for Municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the City if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City. Such
notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. O-18-029, 8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018)
Sec. 16.611. Dispute Resolution.
The Circuit Court of the Eighteenth Judicial Circuit, Wheaton, Illinois, shall
have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under the Small
Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning
rates for collocation of small wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles
within the right-of-way, the City shall allow the collocating person to
collocate on its poles at annual rates as specified in section
16.606 of this article, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of
the dispute. (Ord. O-18-029, 8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018; amd. Ord.
O-20-037, 12-17-2020)
Sec. 16.612. Indemnification.
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the City harmless against any and
all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting from or
arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the City
improvements or right-of- way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this article and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the City or its employees or
agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the City with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability. (Ord. O-18-029, 8-16-2018,
eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018)
Sec. 16.613. Insurance.
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance in amounts consistent with those set forth in
section
16.308 of this chapter, unless altered by the terms of its agreement with the
City:
   A.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   B.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
   C.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the City improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection limits.
The wireless provider shall include the City as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the City in a commercial general liability policy prior to the
collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the City. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the City evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the City. (Ord. O-18-029, 8-16-2018, eff.
retroactive to 8-1-2018; amd. Ord. O-20-037, 12-17-2020)
Sec. 16.614. Maintenance.
A wireless provider shall maintain all small wireless facilities in the City in
a condition that maintains the safety, integrity and aesthetics of such
facilities. In the event of failure to maintain such facilities, the City shall
notify the wireless provider, in writing, addressed to the individual set forth
in the application for permit, of the identified maintenance issue. Except in
the event of an emergency affecting the public health and safety which requires
an immediate response, the wireless provider shall have thirty (30) days from
the date of notice to cure the condition complained of, or to secure additional
time for performance of said work, if needed. Failure to cure the condition to
the satisfaction of the City in the time set forth in any notice may result in
revocation of the permit. (Ord. O-18-029, 8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-
2018)
Sec. 16.615. Permit Suspension And Revocation.
The City retains the right to suspend or revoke any permit issued under this
article for one or more of the following reasons:
   A.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete statements
in the permit application;
   B.   Noncompliance with this article;
   C.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
over, on, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety and welfare;
or
   D.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
compliance with the permit and approved plans. (Ord. O-18-029, 8-16-2018, eff.
retroactive to 8-1-2018)
Sec. 16.616. Exceptions To Applicability.
Nothing in this article authorizes a person to collocate small wireless
facilities on:
   A.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the City or another unit of local government that is not located within rights-
of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure without
the consent of the property owner;
   B.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
   C.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this article do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this article
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: 1) to obtain a
franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or 2) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this article. (Ord. O-18-029, 8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018)
Sec. 16.617. Severability.
If any provision of this article or application thereof to any person or
circumstances is ruled unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such invalidity
shall not affect other provisions or applications of this article that can be
given effect without the invalid application or provision, and each invalid
provision or invalid application of this article is severable. (Ord. O-18-029,
8-16-2018, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2018)
CHAPTER 17
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
PREFACE
         This Unified Development Code of the City of Wood Dale, as
supplemented, contains ordinances up to and including ordinance O-25-011,
passed March 20, 2025. Ordinances of the Unified Development adopted after said
ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that they are in
conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Unified Development office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ARTICLE I
TITLE, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
17.101. Introduction
17.102. Purpose And Applicability
17.103. Rules And Definitions
Sec. 17.101. Introduction.
   A.   Community Character: Wood Dale is located in the Northeastern portion
of DuPage County just west of O’Hare Airport. Like many communities in the
area, Wood Dale is largely built out and has a mix of residential, commercial
and industrial development. Commercial development is focused along the Irving
Park Road corridor and industrial uses are located in the Northern part of the
City. The large industrial area can be mainly attributed to the City’s access
to an excellent transportation system and proximity to regional highways,
including I-390, Illinois 53, Illinois 83, I-290, I-294, I-355, and I-90, and
the Metra commuter rail service to downtown Chicago.
As Wood Dale continues to develop and redevelop, residents will face new issues
related to community character. These issues will range from small infill
development in the older parts of the City to large scale redevelopments
related to strong commercial and industrial markets. These market strengths,
especially for logistics uses, have been and will continue to be a function of
the City’s proximity to O’Hare Airport. As this development and redevelopment
occurs, the challenge before Wood Dale will be to maintain residential quality
of life while capitalizing on the economic development opportunities created by
its location in the Chicago metropolitan region and maintaining the industrial
area as a modern and attractive business park.
Wood Dale’s diversity of buildings and land uses creates distinctive characters
depending where one looks. Residential, commercial, and industrial developments
are generally separated from one another with points of transition between
them. This diversity of uses and the opportunity to minimize their impact on
one another is fundamental to the City’s character. In addition, diversity
within each of the land use types (residential, commercial, and industrial) is
part of the City’s character and a strong asset. Diversity reduces the monotony
often associated with contemporary development practices and is a key element
of Wood Dale’s character and diverse tax base.
“Community character” is a means of organizing the physical, social, and
economic factors that make up a community so that they can be viewed as a
totality rather than as separate and independent facts. It is a framework that
not only defines a type of land use, but also defines their relationships and
functions. For example, transportation impacts are associated with each land
use type. In regulating land uses in each area, development codes must
understand and consider the consequences of the choices.
No single way of looking at or regulating character is primary or all
encompassing. The most important character elements may differ depending on use
type, location, or a variety of other factors. Community character also is
defined by scale of developments and how the natural environment is
incorporated. Lastly, scale (the relationship between humans and buildings and
between two or more buildings) must be considered in managing community
character.
   B.   The Need for This Chapter: The land use and improvement regulations,
requirements and procedures described in this Chapter for Wood Dale serve as a
guide for preserving and perpetuating the community character of Wood Dale as
it continues to develop. The primary purpose of this Chapter is not merely to
provide minimum regulations necessary to facilitate safe and orderly growth,
but to implement the goals, objectives and policies of the City of Wood Dale
Comprehensive Plan. This will help to ensure that orderly growth, in the
context of the existing neighborhoods, increases collective security, advances
city identity, promotes civic awareness and responsibility, and enhances the
quality of life for the entire city. This Chapter also serves to support the
greatest possible economic and social benefits for all Wood Dale residents,
merchants and visitors.
To these ends, this Chapter, related maps, illustrations and diagrams have been
prepared with due consideration of future growth. The goal is to promote a
comfortable neighborhood scale for residential areas. Likewise, these
regulations integrate a balanced transportation system based on pedestrian, and
automobile use with consideration of future transit opportunities and
technological advancements. To advance those objectives, this Chapter also
supports the adequate provision of water and sewer infrastructure, schools,
parks, and other public necessities; and, for the preservation and enhancement
of the natural environment.
   C.   General Development Objectives: The objective of this Chapter is to
carry out and achieve the goals and objectives of the City of Wood Dale
Comprehensive Plan. The Comprehensive Plan provides a clear vision of the
community’s expectations and aspirations, and strategies for community
character and orderly development in the City and its environs. (Ord. O-22-017,
5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.102. Purpose And Applicability.
   A.   Title And Jurisdiction: This Chapter shall be referred to and cited as
the UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF WOOD DALE and shall include
the full scope of authority set forth in Division 13 of the Illinois Municipal
Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq., as the same may be amended from time to time,
and apply to the development and improvement of land and the uses of
structures, land and water within the corporate limits of the City of Wood
Dale, and to the subdivision of land and the public improvements placed thereon
in and within one and one-half (1.5) miles of the corporate limits of the City
of Wood Dale.
   B.   Purpose and Intent: This Chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
      1.   To implement the goals, objectives and policies of the City of Wood
Dale Comprehensive Plan;
      2.   To promote the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare of
the people;
      3.   To divide the City into zones or districts regulating and
restricting therein the location and building use, structures and land for
residential, business, manufacturing and other specified purposes;
      4.   To protect the character and stability of the residential, business,
and manufacturing areas within the City and to promote the orderly and
beneficial development of such areas;
      5.   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
      6.   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas, and determine the
area of open spaces surrounding buildings, necessary to provide adequate light
and air and to protect the public health;
      7.   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed
for residential, business, and manufacturing or other uses within such areas;
      8.   To exclude uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
      9.   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading of commercial vehicles;
      10.   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes, and other
hazards in the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general
welfare;
      11.   To preserve and enhance the taxable value of land and buildings
throughout the City;
      12.   To provide for the elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings and structures that may adversely affect the character and value of
desirable development in the City;
      13.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies provided herein;
      14.   To enhance aesthetic values within the City;
      15.   To encourage the use of alternative and renewable energy sources;
      16.   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of
all parts of the City by facilitating orderly and beneficial development of the
community through appropriate growth management techniques;
      17.   To protect environmentally critical areas and areas premature for
development;
      18.   To guide development in order to provide adequate and efficient
public facilities including but not limited to transportation, water, sewerage,
schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation, and other public facilities;
      19.   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of
land and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the City and to
provide for the proper location and width of streets and building lines;
      20.   To support pedestrian movements appropriate to the various uses of
land and buildings;
      21.   To establish sound standards of design and procedures for
subdivision of property to further the orderly layout and use of land and to
ensure proper legal descriptions and documenting of subdivided land;
      22.   To ensure that public facilities and services are available
concurrent with development and will have a sufficient capacity to serve the
proposed subdivision or development and that the community will be required to
bear no more than its fair share of the cost of providing the facilities and
services through requiring developers and subdividers to pay fees, furnish
land, or establish mitigation measures to ensure that the development or
subdivision provides its fair share of capital facility needs generated by the
development or subdivision;
      23.   To preserve the natural beauty, character, and topography in the
City and to ensure appropriate and sustainable development with regard to these
natural features;
      24.   To prevent the pollution of air, streams, and other surface waters;
to assure the adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table,
and to encourage the wise use and management of natural resources throughout
the City in order to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the
community and the value of land;
      25.   To provide for open space through the most efficient design and
layout of the land;
      26.   To raise the level of community expectations for the quality of its
environment that brings value to the community, foster the attractiveness and
functional utility of the community as a place to live and work;
      27.   To prescribe penalties for the violation of and methods for the
enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter or any amendment thereto;
      28.   To protect human life and property from the hazards of flooding;
and
      29.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base, as well as
lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control efforts that can occur from
unregulated development in or near areas prone to flooding.
   C.   Separability: In accordance with the following, it is hereby declared
that the several provisions of this Chapter are separate:
      1.   If any court of competent jurisdiction determines any provision of
this Chapter to be invalid, such determination shall not affect any other
provision of this Chapter, not specifically included in the court’s judgment
order.
      2.   If any court of competent jurisdiction determines any provision of
this Chapter to be invalid as applied to a particular lot, parcel, building,
structure or use, such determination shall not affect the application of such
provision to any other lot, parcel, building, structure or use not specifically
included in the court’s judgment order.
   D.   Repeal Of Conflicting Ordinances: All prior ordinances or parts of
ordinances of the City of Wood Dale in conflict with this Chapter are hereby
repealed.
   E.   Publication And Effective Date: By authority of the City Manager and
City Council, this Chapter shall be printed in pamphlet form and copies thereof
shall be available at the Office of the City Clerk. This Chapter shall be in
full force from and after its passage, approval and publication in the manner
provided by law.
   F.   Illustrations: The illustrations used in this Chapter are not drawn to
scale and are intended only to graphically represent the requirements and
concepts contained herein, and are not intended, nor should they be construed,
to represent every situation or circumstance which may exist in the City of
Wood Dale. When there is a conflict between the text of this Chapter and an
illustration herein, the text shall prevail.
   G.   Zoning Map: The location and boundaries of the districts established by
this Chapter are indicated upon the map entitled, “official zoning map, City of
Wood Dale, Illinois”, as amended from time to time, which, together with all
explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this Chapter. The official zoning map shall be on file in the Office of
the City Clerk and shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status
of land and buildings, subject to such authorized amendments, which may be in
effect.
   H.   Official Map: The location of all existing and future streets,
highways, parks, public grounds and public ways, including, but not limited to,
schools, bicycle trails, municipal parking areas, public works garages and
facilities, wastewater treatment plants, wells and storage reservoirs, laid
out, adopted and established by this Chapter are indicated upon the map
entitled “official map of the City of Wood Dale”, which together with all
explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this Chapter. The official map shall be on file in the Office of the
City Clerk. All annexation plats and subdivision plats which may hereafter be
approved by the mayor and city council of the City of Wood Dale and recorded in
the office of the recorder of deeds of DuPage County shall be, and such
annexation and subdivision plats are hereby, designated a part of the official
map of the City of Wood Dale.
   I.   Annexed Land: All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the City
of Wood Dale, shall be classified R-1 district until otherwise classified by
amendment as provided herein. In the event owners requesting annexation of
their property desire a classification other than R-1 district, a petition
shall be submitted for the desired zoning classification simultaneously with
the petition for annexation. Upon annexation of property containing existing
structures, the property shall comply with Sections
7.103,
7.301, and
7.402 of The Wood Dale Municipal Code (unless otherwise directed by action of
the City Council). In addition, any fees due pursuant to any public or private
recapture agreement shall be paid at the time of permit issuance for said
connection to the City’s water and/or sanitary sewer system.
   J.   Boundary Lines: In the event that uncertainties exist with respect to
the intended boundaries of the various districts as shown on the zoning map,
the following rules shall apply:
      1.   District boundaries shall be set as the centerlines of the streets,
alleys, public ways and railroad rights of way, unless otherwise indicated.
Such streets, alleys, public ways and railroad rights of way shall be deemed to
be in the same zoning district as the immediately abutting property. In
addition, boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to
follow such centerlines.
      2.   Where the district boundaries do not coincide with the location of
streets or alleys, but do coincide with lot lines, such lot lines shall be
construed to be the boundary of such district.
      3.   Where the district boundaries do not coincide with the location of
streets, alleys, or lot lines, the district boundary shall be determined by the
use of the scale shown on the zoning map.
      4.   When a lot held in one ownership on the effective date of this
Chapter is divided by a district boundary line, the entire lot shall be
construed to be within the more restrictive district.
      5.   Streets, alleys, public ways or railroad rights-of-way which are
shown on the zoning map and which have been vacated, or which may be vacated,
shall be in the same district as the land abutting both sides of the vacated
right of way. If land abutting each side of the vacated right-of-way is
indifferent districts before being vacated, the centerline of the vacated
right-of-way shall be the district boundary line of the respective zoning
districts on either side of the vacated right of way.
   K.   Interpretation:
      1.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
Chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety and welfare.
      2.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this Chapter upon
the use of land or buildings or upon the bulk of buildings are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
provisions of this Code or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulations of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive (or which
impose higher standards or requirements) shall govern.
      3.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to be a consent, license or
permit to use any property, to locate, construct, or maintain any building,
structure or facility, or to carry on any business, industry, occupation or
trade, unless such actions are in keeping with the regulations of this Chapter.
   L.   Disclosure By Trustee Of Land Trust: Whenever any trustee of a land
trust or any beneficiary or beneficiaries of a land trust make application to
the City of Wood Dale pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter the
application must identify each beneficiary of the land trust by name and
address and define the beneficiaries interest in the subject property. All
applications shall be verified by the applicant in its capacity as trustee, or
by the beneficiary as the beneficial owner of an interest in the land trust.
   M.   Private Agreements: This Chapter is not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant, or other private agreement; provided, that where the
regulations of this Chapter are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements than easement, covenants, or other private agreements, the
requirements of this Chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.103. Rules And Definitions.
   A.   Use of Definitions: In the assembly of this Chapter, the definitions
contained in this article shall be observed and applied, except when the
context clearly indicates otherwise.
   B.   Rules: In the construction of this Chapter, the rules contained in this
article shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
      1.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural,
the singular.
      2.   The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory and not discretionary.
      3.   The word “may” is permissive.
      4.   The word “lot” shall include the words “plot”, “piece”, and
“parcel”.
      5.   Unless otherwise specified, all distances shall be measured
horizontally.
      6.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this chapter, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition
thereof.
      7.   The masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter.
      8.   All measured distances shall be expressed in feet and shall be
calculated to the nearest tenth (0.10) of a foot.
      9.   The word “person” shall include the words “association”,
“corporation”, “estate”, “governmental agency”, “individual”, “joint venture”,
“partnership”, “venture”, or any other legal entity.
      10.   The word “Building” shall include the word “Structure”. All
“Buildings” are “Structures”, but not all “Structures” are “Buildings”.
      11.   The phrase “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for”,
“designed for”, “intended for”, “maintained for”, and “occupied for”.
   C.   Definitions: The following words and terms when used in the
interpretation and administration of this chapter shall have the meaning set
forth herein except where otherwise specifically indicated. Words and terms not
defined herein shall be defined as specified in the latest published edition of
“Webster’s New Collegiate Dictionary”.
ABUTTING:                       See ADJACENT.
                                A structure incidental and auxiliary to the principal structure on the same zoning lot as a
                                principal structure. When the wall of an accessory structure is a part of or joined to the
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE:            wall of the principal structure such accessory structure shall be construed as a part of the
                                principal structure. An accessory structure shall be located on the same zoning lot as the
                                principal building served, except for accessory off street parking facilities permitted to
                                locate on a different Zoning Lot.
                                A use incidental and auxiliary to the principal use of the same premises on with such
ACCESSORY USE:                  principal use is located. An accessory use shall be located on the same zoning lot as the
                                principal building or principal use served except for accessory off street parking facilities
                                permitted to locate on a different Zoning Lot.
ADDITION:                       Any structural alteration that changes the shape of or increases the floor area of a building.
ADJACENT:                       Touching, abutting, lying immediately next to, and/or sharing a common wall or lot line.
ADULT REGULATED USE:            As defined in
                                Chapter 4 of this Code.
                                A hard surface, dust free material capable, during ordinary use, of withstanding without
ALL WEATHER, DUST FREE SURFACE: substantial deterioration, normal weather conditions. Gravel and rock do not meet the
                                definition of an all-weather, dust free surface.
                                A public or private way primarily designed to serve as a secondary means of access to those
ALLEY:                          parcels whose principal frontage is on a public street.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2799.png]
                                Any change, or replacement of the supporting members of a building such as bearing walls,
ALTERATION:                     partitions, columns, beams or girders, or a substantial change in the roof or in the exterior
                                walls.
AMUSEMENT ARCADE:               A commercial establishment that has or maintains eight (8) or more amusement devices on the
                                premises.
                                A place where animals are given medical or surgical treatment and the boarding of animals is
ANIMAL HOSPITAL:                limited to short term care incidental to the hospital use. Boarding of animals is not part of
                                this use.
                                A building, structure or facility operated, owned, maintained, or used by a duly incorporated
ANIMAL POUND / SHELTER:         humane society, animal welfare society or other not for profit organization whose purpose is
                                to provide for and promote the welfare, protection and humane treatment of animals, including
                                animals impounded for rabies observation.
ANTENNA:                        An arrangement of wires, metal rods, parabolic or concave dishes, or similar materials used
                                for the transmission and/or reception of electromagnetic waves.
                                The vertical distance measured from the base of the antenna support structure at grade to the
                                highest point of the antenna support structure, even if said highest point is an antenna.
ANTENNA HEIGHT:                 Measurement of tower height shall include antennas, base pad, and other appurtenances and
                                shall be measured from the grade of the site. If the antenna support structure is on a sloped
                                grade, then the average between the highest and lowest grades shall be used in calculating the
                                antenna height.
ANTENNA TOWER:                  Any structure designed for the purpose of mounting an antenna.
APPEAL:                         A request for relief from a decision of the Development Administrator.
APPLICANT:                      Any person who files an application for zoning amendment, special use, variation, subdivision
                                approval, stormwater management permit, or appeal.
ARBOR:                          See TRELLIS.
ARCHITECTURAL ENTRANCE          A structure located at the entrance to a unified development.
STRUCTURE:
ARENA:                          See STADIUM.
ARTS STUDIO:                    Studio for professional work or teaching of any form of fine arts, such as photography, music,
                                drama, and dance.
                                A room, a hall or building made a part of a church, theater, school, recreation building, or
AUDITORIUM:                     other building assigned to the gathering of people as an audience to hear lectures, plays, and
                                other presentations.
AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE (ATM): An automated device that performs banking or financial functions.
AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE:     As defined in
                                Chapter 4 of this Code.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD:       See WRECKING YARD, MOTOR VEHICLE.
                                A fabric covering stretched over a rigid frame projecting from and supported entirely by the
AWNING:                         elevation of a building and designed and intended to provide overhead weather protection over
                                a window, walk, door or the like. Awnings may be fixed or retractable, meaning they can be
                                retracted, folded, or collapsed against the face of the supporting building.
BAKERY / COFFEE SHOP:           An establishment that sells beverages and baked products for consumption on or off-site.
BALCONY:                        An elevated platform open to the elements, not supported by the ground and projecting from an
                                upper story and enclosed entirely by a railing.
BANKS OR FINANCIAL              A financial institution that is open to the public and engaged in deposit banking, and that
INSTITUTIONS:                   performs closely related functions such as loan-making, investments, and fiduciary activities.
                                An establishment which is rented by individuals or groups to accommodate private functions
BANQUET HALL:                   including, but not limited to, banquets, weddings, and other similar events. Such a use may or
                                may not include: 1) kitchen facilities 2) the sale of alcoholic beverages for on-premises
                                consumption during scheduled events.
BAR:                            A room(s) or a counter accessory to the principal use of the building or tenant space in the
                                building where alcoholic beverages are served for consumption on the premises.
BASEMENT:                       That portion of a building that is partly or completely below grade.
BAY WINDOW:                     A window projecting beyond the wall line of the building and not supported by a foundation.
                                A transient lodging establishment, generally a single-family dwelling which is the owner’s
BED AND BREAKFAST:              personal residence or a detached guesthouse, providing overnight or otherwise temporary
                                lodging of the general public for compensation.
BEDROOM:                        Any room designed, intended, or used principally for sleeping purposes, including a study or a
                                den.
                                A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and public parks,
                                cemeteries, railroad right-of-way, shorelines of waterways, Municipal, Township and County
BLOCK:                          boundary lines.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2801.png]
BOARD OF APPEALS:               Community Development Commission of the City.
BODY SHOP, MOTOR VEHICLE:       See MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR FACILITY.
BOW WINDOW:                     See BAY WINDOW.
BREWPUB:                        A type of restaurant that manufactures fermented malt beverages on premises for either
                                consumption on premises or sold directly to the consumer in hand capped or sealed containers.
BUILD-TO LINE:                  An alignment established a certain distance from the front lot line to a line along which the
                                building shall be built.
                                A roofed structure designed or intended for the enclosure, shelter or protection of persons,
BUILDING:                       animals or other property. All forms of vehicles, even if immobilized, are excluded from this
                                definition.
BUILDING CODE:                  Chapter 12 of this Code.
BUILDING COVERAGE:              The gross area of a zoning lot occupied by the ground floor of all principal building(s) and
                                accessory structures which are under roof.
BUILDING, DETACHED:             A building surrounded by open space on the same zoning lot.
                                A line parallel to adjacent property lines at a specified distance from said property lines
                                establishing the minimum open space to be provided between building(s) and an adjacent lot
BUILDING LINE:                  line. Also known as “building setback line” or “setback line”.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2803.png]
BUILDING OFFICIAL:              As defined in
                                Chapter 12 of this Code.
BUILDING PERMIT:                A permit issued by the Building Official of the City for the construction, alteration,
                                removal, or demolition of a building or structure within the City.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL:            A building wherein the primary or predominant use of the zoning lot occurs.
                                The term used to describe the size and setbacks of buildings and the location of same with
                                respect to the lot on which situated of buildings and other structures as to size, height,
BULK:                           coverage, shape, location of exterior walls in relation to lot lines, to the centerline of
                                streets, to other walls of the same building, and to all open spaces relating to the building
                                or structure.
                                As defined in
BUSINESS:                       Chapter 4 of this Code, An occupation, employment or enterprise which occupies time,
                                attention, labor and materials in order to conduct commercial activities.
CALIPER:                        The diameter of a tree measured six inches above finished grade.
CANNABIS:                       Shall have the same definition as “cannabis” set forth in Section 1-10 of the Cannabis
                                Regulation and Tax Act, as amended.
CANNABIS BUSINESS               Means a “cannabis business establishment,” “infuser organization,” or “infuser”, as defined in
ESTABLISHMENT:                  Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as amended, and such other cannabis
                                business establishments authorized under the Act, as amended.
CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER:          Means “craft grower” as defined in Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as
                                amended.
CANNABIS DISPENSARY, MEDICAL:   A business regulated and authorized by the State of Illinois to sell legal quantities of
                             cannabis derived products, including marijuana, to patients who are also authorized by the
                                State of Illinois to purchase cannabis.
                                A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department
                                of Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed cannabis business
CANNABIS DISPENSARY,            establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-infused products,
RECREATIONAL:                   cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered
                                medical cannabis patients and caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
                                0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
CANNABIS INFUSER:               Means “infuser organization” or “infuser” as defined in Section 1-10 of the Cannabis
                                Regulation and Tax Act, as amended.
CANNABIS PROCESSER:             Means “processing organization” or “processer” as defined in Section 1-10 of the Cannabis
                                Regulation and Tax Act, as amended.
CANNABIS TRANSPORTER:           Means “transporting organization” or “transporter” as defined in Section 1-10 of the Cannabis
                                Regulation and Tax Act, as amended.
                                A structure, or portion thereof, containing facilities for washing automobiles, and may
CAR WASH:                       utilize production line methods using a conveyor, blower, steam cleaning device; or other
                                mechanical devices, and may include detailing services.
CARPORT:                        A permanent, structure, open on at least two sides, designed or used for the storage and
                                shelter of motor vehicles.
CEMETERY:                       Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes including but not
                                limited to columbaria, mausoleums, necessary sales, and maintenance facilities.
CITY:                           The City of Wood Dale, an Illinois municipal corporation.
CLUSTER:                        A collection of items, most commonly associated with plant material, installed as a clump or
                                group as opposed to being separated from one another.
COLLEGE/                        A public or private institution of higher education including dormitories, fraternities,
UNIVERSITY:                     sororities, and other accessory buildings necessary for operation, but not including business
                                colleges or trade schools when operated for profit.
COMMERCIAL USE:                 An activity carried out for monetary gain.
                                A single dwelling unit occupied on a relatively permanent basis in a communal living
                                environment by unrelated persons with disabilities, which may include paid professional
COMMUNITY RESIDENCE:            support staff provided by a sponsoring agency, either living with the residents on a
                                continuous basis or present whenever residents with disabilities are present. Community
                                residences that are licensed by the State of Illinois and unlicensed community residences are
                                subject to the use regulations set forth in the Permitted Use Table.
                                The adopted official statement of a legislative body of a local government that sets forth (in
                                words, maps, illustrations and/or tables) goals, policies and guidelines intended to direct
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:             the present and future physical, social and economic development that occurs within its
                                planning jurisdiction and that includes a unified physical design for the public and private
                                development of land and water.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP       A Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) comment letter on a development proposed to be
AMENDMENT (CLOMA):              located in, and affecting only that portion of, the area of floodplain outside the regulatory
                                floodway and having no impact on the existing regulatory floodway or base flood elevations.
                                A letter that indicates that Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will revise base flood
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP       elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries, or floodways as shown on an
REVISION (CLOMR):               effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM), after the
                                record drawings are submitted and approved.
                                An estate in real property consisting of an individual interest in common with other
CONDOMINIUM:                    purchasers in a portion of real property, together with a separate interest in space in a
                                building and/or separate interest in other portions of such real property.
CONIFEROUS:                     Any of numerous, chiefly evergreen trees or shrubs of the class Coniferinae (or group
                                Coniferales), including the pine, fir, spruce, and other cone-bearing trees and shrubs.
                                A non permanent structure located on the site of a development or construction project to be
CONSTRUCTION TRAILER:           used for management of the development or construction project and located on the site for a
                                time concurrent with the associated construction.
                                Office for uses that provides off site services for construction, maintenance and repairs of
CONTRACTORS OFFICE:             buildings, structures, equipment or other services. This use may also include storage of
                                equipment and materials.
CONVENT:                        A building or group of buildings designed to provide group housing for persons under religious
                                vows or orders.
                                A private or public written agreement relating to the use of, restriction of, interest in, or
COVENANT:                       right to, real property and recorded with the DuPage County Recorder of Deeds against the
                                title to the real property to which it applies.
CUL-DE-SAC:                     A short street having one end open to traffic and being terminated at the other end by a
                                vehicular turnaround.
                                Any childcare facility which regularly provides daycare for less than twenty four (24) hours
                                per day for more than eight (8) children in a family home, or more than three (3) children in
DAYCARE CENTER:                 a facility other than a family home, including senior citizen buildings as defined by 225
                                Illinois Compiled Statutes 10/2.09 and licensed by the Illinois Department of Children and
                                Family Services.
                                A residence licensed by the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services for the care
                                of at least three (3) but not more than twelve (12) children for less than twenty four (24)
DAYCARE HOME:                   hours per day. The maximum number of children permitted includes the family’s natural, foster
                                or adopted children and all other persons under the age of twelve (12). The term does not
                                include residences or facilities which receive only children from a single household.
DECIDUOUS:                      Tree or other plant that sheds all of its leaves according to a genetically scheduled cycle as
                                impacted by climate factors, usually during the cold season in temperate zones.
                                A level, unenclosed platform serving as a floor and located above the finished grade, and
DECK:                           usually directly adjoining or attached to a building.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2805.png]
                                Any man-made change, other than maintenance of existing structures, paved areas or utilities,
                                to improved or unimproved real estate, including, without limitation, the construction or
DEVELOPMENT:                    installation of new, or enlargement of existing structures, streets, or utilities; dredging,
                                filling, drilling, mining, grading, paving, or excavating operations; and open storage of
                                materials.
DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATOR:      The individual designated by the City Manager to enforce this chapter, or their designee.
DEVELOPMENT PLAN:               A preliminary or final plan meeting the requirements of this chapter for the development of a
                                planned unit development.
DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT       The diameter of a standing tree measured at 4.5 feet above the ground. This measurement
(dbh):                          applies to mature trees.
                                A personal condition which is: 1) attributed to mental, intellectual, or physical impairment
                                or a combination of mental, intellectual, or physical impairments; 2) likely to continue for a
                                significant amount of time or indefinitely; and 3) results in functional limitation in three
DISABILITY:                     (3) or more of the following areas of major life activities: self-care; receptive or
                                expressive language; learning; mobility; self-direction; capacity for independent living;
                                economic self-sufficiency; and reflects the person’s need for a combination and sequence of
                                special interdisciplinary or generic care treatment, or other service of life long or extended
                                duration, but is not the result of a communicable disease or substance abuse or alcohol abuse.
DISTRICT, ZONING:               A section of the corporate areas of the City of Wood Dale within which the regulations
                                governing the use of land are uniform.
DOG RUN:                        An enclosed outdoor area intended for the exercising and/or containment of dogs or other
                                animals.
                                The zone lying between the trunk of a tree or shrub and the extreme outer edge of the leaf and
                                branch structure, i.e., the diameter of the leaf and branch structure extended vertically down
DRIPLINE:                       to the soil surface.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2807.png]
                                A facility or establishment designed, intended or used for transaction of business with
DRIVE-THRU:                     customers in automobiles and may be the principal or an auxiliary function of the business. A
                                drive-up window service facility does not include mail or parcel collection boxes.
DRIVEWAY:                       A private roadway providing vehicular access from a street or alley to adjacent property.
DRIVEWAY APRON:                 The portion of a driveway located in the right-of-way.
DWELLING:                       A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy, but not
                                including hotels, motels or lodging houses.
                                A room or suite of rooms arranged, designed, used and intended for use as living quarters for
DWELLING, ACCESSORY:            a single household, including sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitation facilities, and may be
                                located in a freestanding accessory structure and having its own exterior entrance.
DWELLING, APARTMENT:            See DWELLING, MULTI-UNIT.
                                A building consisting of dwelling units each of which is attached by common vertical wall to
DWELLING, ATTACHED SINGLE-UNIT: at least one other dwelling unit with each dwelling unit having a separate exterior entrance
                                and occupying the ground, including, but not limited to, the following: “townhouse”, “row
                                house”, “duplex”, “fourplex”, “threeplex”.
DWELLING, DETACHED SINGLE-UNIT: A freestanding building containing one dwelling unit.
                                A building containing two (2) dwelling units where one dwelling unit is joined with the other
DWELLING, DUPLEX:               dwelling unit on one side by a common wall. No dwelling unit or portion thereof within a
                                duplex dwelling shall be located above or below another dwelling unit. Each dwelling unit
                                shall have an exterior located on the ground floor.
                                A building, or portion thereof, consisting of three (3) or more dwelling units with varying
                                arrangements of entrances and party walls and one or more of the dwelling units do not occupy
DWELLING, MULTI-UNIT:           the ground, including, but not limited to, the following: “apartment”, “condominium”,
                                “cooperative”, “manor home”, “coach house”, “three-flat”, and “six-flat”. Includes independent
                                senior living.
                                A building consisting of two (2) dwelling units where one dwelling unit is located on the
DWELLING, TWO-UNIT:             first floor and the second dwelling unit is located on the second floor and each dwelling may
                                or may not have a separate exterior entrance.
                                One or more rooms, including at least one complete permanently installed bathroom and not more
DWELLING UNIT:                  than one complete kitchen facility arranged, designed, or used as living quarters for not more
                                than one family. Each dwelling unit shall have an independent entrance, cooking, sleeping and
                                sanitary facilities.
EASEMENT:                       A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip or parcel of his land by the general
                                public, a corporation, or a certain person(s) for a specific purpose(s).
EATING AND DRINKING             See RESTAURANT.
ESTABLISHMENT:
EAVE:                           The projecting lower edges of a roof, overhanging the wall of a building.
EDUCATION FACILITY:             See SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL/TRADE SCHOOL.
                                Any vehicle that is licensed and registered on public and private highways, roads, and streets
                                that contains original, stock equipment from the vehicle manufacturer to accept charging from
                                an electric vehicle charging station and that operates, either partially or exclusively, on
ELECTRIC VEHICLE:               electrical energy from the grid, or an off-board source, that is stored on-board via a battery
                                for motive purpose. "Electric vehicle" includes: (1) a battery powered electric vehicle
                                operated solely by electricity, (2) a plug-in hybrid electric vehicle that operates on
                                electricity and gasoline and has a battery that can be recharged from an external source, (3)
                                electric scooters or motorcycles.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING       An electrical component assembly or cluster of component assemblies designed specifically to
STATION:                        charge batteries located within electric vehicles. The charging station may also contain
                                appurtenances for the purposes of customer payment.
ENTRANCE, MAIN:                 An entrance that is used to access the site, or building or portion of a building by the
                                public.
                                An entrance that is not the main entrance and used to access employee restricted areas of the
ENTRANCE, SERVICE:              site or building, which includes service bays and loading docks. Required egress doors are not
                                included in this definition.
FAA:                            The Federal Aviation Administration of the United States of America.
FCC:                            The Federal Communications Commission of the United States of America.
                                Refers to matters of spatial definition and shall mean the vertical surface of a building set
FACADE:                         along a frontage line; facades are subject to visual definition by building height and setback
                                lines.
                                A freestanding structure of metal, masonry, composition or wood or any combination thereof
FENCE:                          permanently installed by being partially buried in the ground and rising above ground level,
                                and used for confinement, screening, or partition purposes, further defined as the following:
   FENCE, OPEN (OR DECORATIVEA fence, including entrance and exit gates, designed and constructed so that the surface area
                                of any segment of such fence contains at least 50 percent or more of open spaces.
                                A fence that is constructed so that less than 50 percent of the area prohibits light through
   FENCE, SOLID (OR PRIVACY):it, screening views.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2809.png]
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION OR   The elevation of the base flood plus two feet (2') at any given location in the special flood
FPE:                            hazard area.
FLOODPLAIN:                     The area typically adjacent to and including a body of water where ground surface elevations
                                are at or below a specified flood elevation.
                                That portion of the SFHA required to store and convey the base flood. The floodway for the
                                SFHAs of Salt Creek shall be as delineated on the flood boundary and floodway map prepared by
FLOODWAY:                       FEMA and dated August 19, 1997. The floodway for each of the remaining SFHAs of the City shall
                                be according to the best data available to the Illinois State water survey floodplain
                                information repository.
                                The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building measured from the
                                exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two (2)
                                buildings and shall include basement floor area; elevator shafts, escalators and stairwells at
                                each floor; floor space used for mechanical, telephone and electrical equipment, open or
FLOOR AREA, GROSS (GFA):        enclosed, except when located on the roof; penthouses, except mechanical penthouses; attic
                                space having headroom of seven feet ten inches (7'10") or more; interior balconies and
                                mezzanines; enclosed porches; outdoor display areas; interior off street parking and loading
                                facilities; and floor area devoted to accessory uses.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2811.png]
                                The gross floor area of the several floors of the building less basement floor area when used
                                for storage; elevator shafts, escalators and stairwells at each floor; floor space used for
                                mechanical, telephone and electrical equipment, open or enclosed, except when located on the
FLOOR AREA, NET (NFA):          roof; penthouses, except mechanical penthouses; attic space having headroom of seven feet ten
                                inches (7'10") or more; public restrooms, interior balconies and mezzanines and other interior
                                common areas designed primarily for pedestrian circulation; enclosed porches; outdoor display
                                areas; interior off street parking and loading facilities; and entrance lobbies.
FOOD PREPARATION:               Catering establishment, where food is prepared on the premises for consumption elsewhere.
                                Goods, wares, merchandise, substances, materials, and commodities of any kind being
FREIGHT:                        transported or transferred from one place to another by air, rail, or commercial motor
                                vehicle.
FREIGHT HANDLING FACILITY:      A building or portion thereof in which freight is assembled and/or temporarily stored for
                                routing or reshipment, and may include dispatch services.
                                A parcel of land or portion thereof designed for the parking and/or storage of semitrailers,
FREIGHT YARD:                   including truck tractors and/or trailer units, other commercial motor vehicles, buses and
                                recreational vehicles and storage of shipping containers.
FUNERAL HOME:                   An establishment engaged in undertaking services such as preparing the dead for burial and
                                arranging and managing funerals.
                                A structure, or an accessory portion of the principal building, for the private use of the
GARAGE, PRIVATE:                owner or occupant of the principal building, designed or used for the storage and shelter of
                                motor vehicles.
GARAGE, PUBLIC:                 A building or portion thereof, other than a private garage, designed or used for the care,
                                storage, of motor vehicles, or where such vehicles are kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
                                Any building, land area, or other premises, or a portion thereof, used or intended to be used
GASOLINE STATION:               for the retail dispensing or sale of motor vehicle fuels and fluids that may include the
                                retail sale of other merchandise or services not related to dispensing fuel.
GOLF COURSE:                    Public or private facility for playing golf, and may include accessory clubhouse, driving
                                range, miniature golf, restaurant, lounge, bar, pro shop and banquet facilities.
                                That elevation established by the City for the proper level of the sidewalk at the street lot
                                line. Where the sidewalk does not adjoin the street lot line, grade at the street lot line
GRADE OR GRADE LEVEL:           shall be determined by taking the elevation established by the City for the street curb and
                                adding thereto an amount equal to one-third (1/3) of an inch for each foot of horizontal
                                distance between said edge of street curb and said street lot line; on alley, grade shall be
                                that elevation which is commonly termed “alley grade at the property line”.
GREENHOUSE:                     Land or structures used to raise flowers, shrubs, trees and other plant material for sale at
                                retail or wholesale.
                                An establishment where the principal use is the retail sale of food, including meats, produce,
GROCERY / FOOD STORE:           bakery and dry goods, and may include accessory preparation of food for consumption on or off
                                the premises.
GROUND COVER:                   Woody or nonwoody plants with a maintained or unmaintained average mature height less than
                                twelve inches (12").
GROUND FLOOR:                   The first floor of a building other than a basement.
HABITABLE SPACE:                Space in a structure designed for living, sleeping, eating or cooking, but excluding
                                bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces and similar areas.
HEALTH AND WELFARE FACILITY:    A facility specializing in medical treatment, physical therapy (alcohol and drug treatment),
                                assisted living for all ages, retirement communities, and shelters.
HEALTH CLUB:                    See INDOOR ATHLETIC FACILITY.
                                The vertical distance of a building measured from GRADE at the midpoint of the front wall of a
                                building to the highest point of the roof or parapet walls, excluding chimneys, mechanical
HEIGHT (FOR BUILDINGS):         equipment, cooling towers, storage tanks, bulkheads, spires, water towers, and antennas
                                attached to or resting upon the building.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2813.png]
                                Reference to the general mature height of plant materials installed above the adjacent
HEIGHT (FOR LANDSCAPING):       elevation of soil or paving. Specified height of a screening may be provided by a berm,
                                combination of a berm and planting, or a structure unless otherwise specified herein.
                                A business, profession, occupation or trade conducted for pecuniary gain entirely within a
HOME BASED BUSINESS:            residential building, or, when permitted by this chapter, within a structure that is accessory
                                to a residential building.
                                An establishment where home improvement materials, including, but not limited to, kitchen and
                                bathroom accessories and fixtures, wall coverings, window coverings, heating and air
                                conditioning, plumbing and electrical supplies, painting and decorating material, tools and
HOME /GARDEN CENTER:            residential construction and remodeling materials and supplies are sold for retail. These
                                centers may include a nursery and/or greenhouse. Outdoor storage of building materials may be
                                provided but is accessory to the principal use and structure and only as permitted by the
                                district in which it is located.
                                An institution providing primary health services and medical or surgical care to inpatients
HOSPITAL:                       suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity and other abnormal physical or mental
                                conditions and including as an integral part of the institution, related facilities such as
                                laboratories, pharmacies, outpatient facilities or training facilities.
                                A building designed for transient occupancy containing lodging rooms or suites accessible from
HOTEL:                          a common interior hall or entrance, providing living, sleeping and sanitary facilities. An
                                accessory central kitchen, meeting rooms, dining room, swimming pool and recreation room may
                                be provided in the same building or structure.
                                Land cover that cannot effectively absorb or infiltrate water, including, but not limited to,
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE:             nonporous asphalt or asphalt sealants, nonporous concrete, roofing materials and compacted
                                gravel.
                                An establishment that provides health, fitness, and exercise facilities such as running,
INDOOR ATHLETIC FACILITIES:     jogging, aerobics, weightlifting, court sports, swimming, or other recreational activities.
                                May also include facilities for sports training such as baseball, soccer, gymnastics, and
                                martial arts.
INDOOR ENTERTAINMENT AND        An establishment where entertainment, either passive or active, is provided. Activities
AMUSEMENT FACILITIES:           include but are not limited to bowling, billiards, performance arts and theater, indoor play
                                park, and other similar uses.
                                The use of a structure for the display and sale of merchandise directly to the ultimate
INDOOR RETAIL SALE OF GOODS:    consumer that may include stocks of goods, wares or merchandise incidental to such purpose and
                                open and accessible to the public.
                                An open area of land and any accessory building or structure thereon which is used for buying,
                                selling, exchanging, storing, baling, packing, disassembling, or handling waste or scrap
                                materials, including vehicles, machinery, and equipment not in operable condition or parts
JUNKYARD:                       thereof, and other metals, paper, plastics, rags, rubber tires, and bottles. Two (2) or more
                                inoperable motor vehicles stored on a zoning lot shall be considered a junkyard. A “junkyard”
                                includes a motor vehicle wrecking yard, but does not include an establishment located in the
                                applicable manufacturing district engaged exclusively in processing of scrap iron or other
                                metals to be sold only to establishments engaged in manufacturing of steel or metal alloys.
                                Any lot or premises, or portion thereof, whether public or private, on which more than three
KENNEL:                         (3) dogs, three (3) cats, or three (3) other household domestic animals over four (4) months
                                of age are kept or on which more than two (2) such animals are maintained, boarded, bred, or
                                cared for in return for remunerations or are kept for the purpose of sale.
LOADING BERTH:                  An off-street space for the temporary parking of a vehicle while loading or unloading
                                merchandise or materials and which abuts on a street or an alley
LIGHTED SPORTS FIELD:           Athletic fields lighted for competition purposes.
                                A place of business selling beer, wine and/or distilled liquors at retail, to the general
LIQUOR STORE:                   public in sealed bottles or containers for consumption or use away from the premises where
                                said establishment is located.
LODGING:                        see HOTEL.
                                Land that is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been recorded in the Office of the
                                County Recorder of Deeds, of DuPage County or it may be and consist of a part of such recorded
LOT:                            lot, or it may include parts of or a combination of several lots when adjacent to one another
                                and used as one parcel.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2815.png]
   LOT, CORNER:              A lot which is situated at and abuts the intersection of two (2) or more streets or adjoins a
                                curved street at the end of a block.
   LOT, INTERIOR:            A lot which has only its front yard bordering on a street.
   LOT, THROUGH (also DOUBLE A lot which has its rear and front yard bordering on a street.
FRONTAGE):
   LOT, REVERSE CORNER:      Any corner lot the side street line of which is substantially a continuation of the front lot
                                line of the lot upon which the rear of said reverse corner lot abuts.
                                The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear lot lines. Calculation of
                                the required minimum lot area shall not include street right-of-way, whether dedicated to the
LOT AREA:                       public or a private street or easement for street purposes and, when adjacent a watercourse,
                                drainageway, channel or stream, the area included in floodplain or easements reserved for the
                                maintenance of said surface waters.
                                The percentage of a zoning lot improved with impervious surfaces, which includes but is not
LOT COVERAGE:                   limited to decks and in ground swimming pools (above ground swimming pools do not count toward
                                lot coverage).
                                The distance between the midpoints of the front lot line and the midpoint of the rear lot
LOT DEPTH:                      line.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2817.png]
                                The lines bounding a LOT as defined herein. On a corner lot, the Development Administrator
                                shall designate which of the two (2) lines abutting a street right-of-way shall be considered
LOT LINES:                      a corner lot line and which shall be considered a front lot line.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2819.png]
                                A lot line abutting a street right-of-way. On a corner lot, the Development Administrator
   LOT LINE, FRONT:          shall designate which of the two (2) lot lines abutting a street right-of-way shall be
                                considered a front lot line and which shall be considered a side lot line.
                                A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front lot line and, in the case of
   LOT LINE, REAR:           triangular or irregular shaped lots, a line ten feet (10') in length within the lot, parallel
                                to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE:           Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line setback.
                                A lot that was lawfully created in accordance with lot area, lot width and lot depth
LOT, NONCONFORMING:             regulations in effect at the time of the lot’s establishment but does not comply with
                                currently applicable lot area, width or depth regulations.
                                A lot that is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been recorded in the Office of the
LOT OF RECORD:                  DuPage County Recorder of Deeds, or a legally created parcel of land, the deed to which is
                                recorded in the Office of said County Recorder.
                                The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot measured within the lot boundary
LOT WIDTH:                      along the front building line.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2821.png]
                                A single tract of land under common ownership, wholly within the boundaries of the City and on
                                one side of a public street, and which has frontage on a public street or private drive
                                approved as part of a subdivision, which is designated by its owner or developer as a tract to
LOT, ZONING:                    be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under single ownership or control and which meets
                                all requirements of this chapter. The division of a zoning lot may or may not result in the
                                creation of two (2) or more zoning lots, and a zoning lot(s) may or may not coincide with a
                                lot of record.
LOUNGE:                         See INDOOR ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENT FACILITIES.
                                The mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or substances into new products
MANUFACTURING, GENERAL:         including the assembling of components; parts, the manufacturing of products and the blending
                                of materials. Uses which draw, roll, extrude, cast, forge, heat treat, electroplate, plate,
                                anodize, or color ferrous and nonferrous metals.
                                The manufacture, predominantly from previously prepared materials, of finished products or
                                parts, including processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment and packaging of such products,
MANUFACTURING, LIMITED:         and incidental storage, sales, and distribution of such products. This does not involve the
                                assembly of large equipment and machinery and has very limited external impacts in terms of
                                noise, vibration, odor, hours of operation and commercial motor vehicle traffic.
                                A building assembly or system of building subassemblies, designed for habitation as a dwelling
MANUFACTURED HOUSING OR         for one or more persons, including the necessary electrical, heating, ventilation and other
MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT:      service systems, which is of closed or open construction and which is made or assembled by a
                                manufacturer, on or off the building site, for installation, assembly and installation, on the
                                building site, with a permanent foundation.
                                An establishment where one or more licensed medical professional operate as group within a
                                room or group of rooms used for the diagnosis and treatment of human patients’ illnesses,
MEDICAL/ DENTAL CLINIC:         injuries and physical maladies that can be performed in an office setting with no overnight
                                care. Surgical, rehabilitation and other medical centers that do not involve overnight patient
                                stays are included in this category, as are medical and dental laboratories.
MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION    A facility operated by an organization or business that is registered by the Illinois
CENTER:                         Department of Agriculture to perform necessary activities to provide only registered medical
                                cannabis dispensing organizations with usable medical cannabis.
                                A group of people organized for a common purpose to pursue common goals, interest, or
MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATION:        activities and usually characterized by certain membership qualifications, payment of dues,
                                regular meeting, and constitution and bylaws.
                                A manufacturer of alcoholic malt beverages of up to 15,000 barrels per year for the purpose of
                                wholesale distribution of a majority of its product with incidental sales of up to 3,000
MICRO-BREWERY:                  barrels to the public for on-site consumption or carryout. The microbrewery facility may
                                include an ancillary tasting room and retail sales in which guests/customers may sample and
                                purchase the product(s) associated with the facility’s use, and/or products manufactured on-
                                site.
                                A facility that produces alcoholic beverages in quantities not to exceed 15,000 gallons per
MICRO-DISTILLERY:               year, and includes an accessory tasting room and retail sales area and/or restaurant. A
                                tasting room allows customers to taste samples of products manufactured on-site and purchase
                                related sales items. Sales of alcohol manufactured outside the facility are prohibited.
                                Combination retail, wholesale and small-scale artisan manufacturing business that blends,
                                ferments, processes, packages, and distributes wine for sale on or off-site. The micro-winery
MICRO-WINERY:                   facility may include an ancillary tasting room and retail component in which guests/customers
                                may sample and purchase the product associated with the facility’s use, and/or products
                                manufactured on-site. Operation of the facility shall be consistent with Illinois State law
                                regarding “Second Class Wine Makers”.
MINIMUM DEVELOPMENT AREA:       The area that may constitute a separate or detached part of any zoning district classification
                                as set forth in this chapter.
MINIWAREHOUSE:                  See definition of PERSONAL STORAGE FACILITY.
                                A movable or portable structure designed and intended for permanent habitation and constructed
                                to be towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels) from the place of construction
                                to the location or subsequent locations, and designed to be used without a permanent
                                foundation and connected to utilities for year round occupancy without a permanent foundation.
MOBILE HOME:                    The term shall include: 1) units containing parts that may be folded, collapsed, or telescoped
                                when being towed and that may be expanded to provide additional cubic capacity; 2) units
                                composed of two (2) or more separately towable components designed to be joined into one
                                integral unit capable of being separated again into the components for repeated towing; and 3)
                                units designed to be used for residential, commercial, educational or industrial purposes,
                                excluding, however, recreational vehicles.
MOBILE HOME PARK:               An area of land or lands upon which five (5) or more independent mobile homes are harbored for
                                rent.
                                A building offering transient occupancy containing lodging rooms directly accessible from an
MOTEL:                          exterior hall or entrance, providing living, sleeping and sanitary facilities, whether such
                                establishment is designated as a hotel, inn, automobile court, motor inn, motor lodge, tourist
                                court, or otherwise.
                                Any motor powered device in, upon or by which any person or property may be transported,
MOTOR VEHICLE:                  including any self-propelled device which derives motive power from an internal combustion
                                engine, electricity, hydrogen fuel cell, or other alternative power source as determined by
                                the Development Administrator.
                                Any motor vehicle including but not limited to truck tractors and buses, and/or any vehicle
MOTOR VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL:      requiring a commercial driver’s license to operate. Federal Motor Carrier Safety
                                Administration exemptions do not apply to this definition.
                                Any motor vehicle used, designed, or maintained for the transportation of ten (10) persons or
MOTOR VEHICLE, PASSENGER:       less, including but not limited to vans, trucks or sport utility vehicles, and not a
                                commercial motor vehicle.
                                An establishment where contracts are prepared, or reservations accepted for the rental or
MOTOR VEHICLE RENTAL:           leasing of motor vehicles. This term includes incidental storage of vehicles but does not
                                include on premise maintenance of vehicles or a tool/equipment rental facility.
MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR FACILITY:  A building or structure in which a business, service or industry involving the maintenance,
                                repair, servicing or painting of vehicles, or other small engines is conducted or rendered.
MOTOR VEHICLE SALES (NEW AND    The use of any building or portion thereof, or other premises, for the display and sale of new
USED):                          motor vehicles, or used motor vehicles as an ancillary use of a lot, and any warranty repair
                                work and other repair service conducted as an accessory use.
MOTOR VEHICLE SERVICES:         Uses involved in the maintenance, repair, servicing and/or painting of automobiles or motor
                                vehicles.
                                Special purpose art, entertainment or recreational establishments building, structure or site
MUSEUM OR CULTURAL FACILITY:    that preserves or exhibits, objects, sites and other items of historic, cultural or
                                educational value.
NURSERY SCHOOL:                 See DAYCARE CENTER.
NURSING HOME:                   See SKILLED CARE FACILITY.
OCCUPANCY:                      The actual use of land, building and/or structure, or a portion thereof.
OCCUPANCY, NON-RESIDENTIAL:     The occupancy for uses other than residential.
OCCUPANCY, RESIDENTIAL:         The occupancy for living and sleeping purposes, that is not considered lodging.
                                A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a business, profession, service
OFFICE, ADMINISTRATIVE AND      industry or government, including but not limited to corporate office, law offices,
PROFESSIONAL:                   architectural firms, insurance companies and other executive, management or administrative
                                offices for businesses and corporations.
ON-PREMISES CANNABIS            A cannabis business establishment or other entity that is authorized or permitted to allow the
CONSUMPTION ESTABLISHMENT:      on-premises consumption of cannabis.
ORNAMENTAL TREE:                A tree with flowers, spring and fall color, and interesting growth habits are characteristics
                                of these trees, with an average mature height less (under) than twenty feet (20').
OUTDOOR DINING, TEMPORARY:      Outdoor Café, accessory to a restaurant, delicatessen, bakery, ice cream store or other retail
                                use.
                                Uses that provide entertainment services partially or wholly outside of a completely enclosed
OUTDOOR RECREATION FACILITIES:  building. Such uses typically, although not always, attract an audience where patrons are not
                                engaged in a physical recreational activity. Examples include: Amusement parks, drive-in
                                theaters, outdoor live theatres, vehicular and animal racetracks, zoos, and similar land uses.
OVERLAY DISTRICT:               A set of regulations which add an additional layer of design provisions to an underlying
                                zoning district.
PARCEL:                         A tract or plot of land.
PARKING AREA:                   See PARKING LOT/GARAGE.
                                An open area other than a street or alley, used for the temporary parking of more than four
PARKING LOT/GARAGE:             (4) vehicles whether free, for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients, customers or
                                employees.
PARKING LOT/GARAGE              A parcel of land used for the parking of motor vehicles for less than forty eight (48)
(COMMERCIAL):                   consecutive hours in any seventy two (72) hour period, excluding freight yard.
PARKING, NON-ACCESSORY:         A parcel of land used for parking of passenger motor vehicles as the primary use, as opposed
                                to an accessory use to the principal use of a parcel or another adjacent property.
PARKS AND RECREATION:           See OUTDOOR RECREATION FACILITY.
PARKWAY:                        As defined in Section 6.502 of this Code: The area between the edge of the existing paved
                                street or curb and the property line.
                                A level, unenclosed surfaced area located at grade and usually directly adjoining or attached
PATIO:                          to a building.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2823.png]
                                An establishment that, in part or in whole, loans or advances money on security of personal
PAWNSHOP:                       property left in pawn and pledged as collateral, and where the pledged property may be sold to
                                the public if not redeemed by the pledger within a fixed amount of time.
                                As defined in Section 4.106 of this Code: Any legal entity, including, but not limited to, an
                                individual, firm, partnership, association, trust, joint stock company, corporation or
                                successor of any of the foregoing. Whenever the word “person” is used in any section
PERSON:                         prescribing a penalty or fine as applied to partnerships or associations, the word shall
                                include the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the word shall
                                include officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for any violation of the
                                section.
PERSONAL GROOMING:              Personal services related to maintenance of hair, nails, skin, including, but not limited to
                                barber shops, beauty and nail salons, and/or day spas.
                                Uses that provide a variety of non-medical services associated with frequent, recurrent, and
PERSONAL SERVICES:              instructional needs, including but not limited to personal grooming, fitness and leisure
                                activities, individual or group instruction or training, and/or massage therapy.
                                A building or group of buildings in a controlled access and fenced compound that contains
PERSONAL STORAGE FACILITY:      various sizes of individual, compartmentalized, and controlled access stalls or lockers for
                                the storage of customer’s goods or wares.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE:      Commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless services, and common carrier wireless exchange
                                access services.
PERSONAL WIRELESS               Facilities for the provision of personal wireless services.
COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY:
                                Land cover of porous or permeable material that allows water to percolate into the soil to
                                filter out pollutants and recharge the water table. Pervious materials include, but are not
PERVIOUS SURFACE:               limited to, porous concrete, permeable pavers, landscape steppingstones with spacing between
                                and planted rooftops designed to reduce runoff. To be considered pervious, pavers and other
                                permeable surfaces must be designed and constructed in accordance with DuPage County standard
                                details as approved from time to time by the DuPage County Municipal Engineers Group.
PET CARE SERVICES:              Establishments providing ancillary animal services, such as grooming, training and care
                                taking. Overnight boarding of animals is not permitted.
                                Establishments that include the retail sale of pets and other household animals (except for
PET STORE:                      farming purposes) and pet supplies. Overnight boarding of animals is not permitted, except for
                                pet shops where animals sold in the shop are permitted to remain there until sold.
PETITIONER:                     See APPLICANT.
                                An area or tract of land under common ownership or control to be developed as a single entity
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:       that may include a number of structures, the plan for which does not necessarily correspond in
                                lot size, bulk, type of dwelling, use, lot coverage, or required open space regulations
                                established in the zoning district in which said land is located.
                                A plat of a lot, drawn to scale and by a licensed professional, showing the actual
PLAT OF SURVEY:                 measurements, the size and location of any existing structures, the location of the lot in
                                relation to abutting streets and other such information.
PLAYGROUND:                     An area with playground equipment.
PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT:           Play apparatus, including but is not limited to slides, swing sets, and jungle gyms.
PLAYHOUSES:                     A freestanding structure, exclusively for the use of children, and not intended to be used for
                                storage.
                                A roofed platform projecting from the wall of a building and having direct access to or from
                                the building to which it is attached. A porch has no solid walls other than the wall of the
PORCH:                          building to which it is attached. A porch may be enclosed with a mesh screen to keep out
                                unwanted insects, but is otherwise exposed to the elements throughout the year.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2825.png]
PRODUCT SHOWROOM:               Corporate facility where goods are displayed that may also include assembly, light production,
                                shipping, administrative and operational functions.
PUB:                            See definition of TAVERN.
                                As defined in Section 6.502 of this Code: Any property owned by a governmental entity,
PUBLIC PROPERTY:                including but not limited to the City, township, County, special districts (such as the
                                Library District, Fire Protection District, School District, etc.) and the State or Federal
                                government.
PUBLIC TREE:                    As defined in Section 6.502 of this Code: Trees now or hereafter growing within a right-of-way
                                or on any property owned or maintained by the City.
QUEUING SPACE:                  The reservoir space occupied by any number of cars that must be accommodated while awaiting
                                ingress or egress to specified business or service establishments.
RADIO OR TELEVISION             A facility, and its accessory uses or structures, utilized for the broadcast or reception of
BROADCASTING STUDIO:            electro-magnetically transmitted information, except those facilities as are defined as
                                noncommercial telecommunication sites.
                                A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities for track operation and passenger
RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY:          station, but not including depot loading platforms, train sheds, warehouses, car shops, car
                                yards, locomotive shops, water towers, etc.
REAL ESTATE OFFICE/MODEL HOME:  A dwelling or other accessory structure temporarily used as a sales office for a residential
                                development under construction for on-site sales.
RECREATIONAL CANNABIS           Means “cultivation center” as defined in Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
CULTIVATION CENTER:             as amended.
                                Any vehicle or boat originally designed for living quarters, recreation, or human habitation
                                and not used as a commercial vehicle, including, but not limited to, the following:
                                1.   Boats: Any vessel used for water travel; a boat mounted on a trailer shall be considered
                                one vehicle.
                                2.   Camping Trailers: A folding or collapsible vehicle without its own motive power, designed
                                as temporary living quarters for travel, camping, recreation or vacation use.
                                3.   Motor Homes: A temporary dwelling designed and constructed for travel, camping,
                                recreational or vacation use as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle.
                                4.   Off Road Vehicles: Vehicles intended primarily for recreational use off of roads where
                                State vehicle licenses are required, e.g., dune buggy, go-cart, snowmobile.
                                5.   Racing Car/Cycles: Vehicles intended to be used in racing competition, such as a racecar
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:           or racing cycle, a racing car/cycle mounted on a trailer shall be considered one vehicle.
                                6.   Travel Trailers: Vehicle without its own motive power, designed to be used as a temporary
                                dwelling for travel, camping, recreational or vacation uses.
                                7.   Truck Campers: A structure designed primarily to be mounted on a pickup truck or truck
                                chassis and designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, camping, recreational or
                                vacation uses, when mounted on a truck, such structure shall be considered one vehicle.
                                8.   Vans: Noncommercial motor vehicles licensed by the State of Illinois as a recreational
                                vehicle.
                                9.   Vehicle Trailers: A vehicle without its own motive power that is designed to transport
                                another vehicle, such as a boat, motorcycle or snowmobile for recreational or vacation use and
                                that is eligible to be licensed or registered and insured for highway use, a vehicle trailer
                                with a vehicle mounted on it shall be considered one vehicle.
                                A facility that is not a junkyard, in which recoverable resources from used materials and
RECYCLING CENTER:               products are purchased, collected, processed to a condition for reuse, or temporarily stored
                                prior to delivery or sale to others who will use the recovered resources to manufacture new
                                products.
                                The floodplain as determined by the base flood elevation used as the basis for regulation in
REGULATORY FLOODPLAIN:          article 2, section 15-16 through 15-17, DuPage County Countywide stormwater and floodplain
                                ordinance.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION:          A building in which persons regularly assemble for religious worship, intended primarily for
                                purposes connected with such worship or for propagating a particular form of religious belief.
REMODEL, REMODELING:            To remake, redecorate the interior or exterior of a structure without making structural
                                alterations.
RENOVATE:                       To restore to an earlier condition.
RESEARCH SERVICES:              The conduct of research, development, and testing in various fields of science, such as but
                                not limited to chemistry, pharmacy, medicine, electricity, transportation and engineering.
REST HOME:                      See SKILLED CARE FACILITY.
                                Any building or part thereof where a menu of food items are cooked and prepared for
                                compensation, for the general public for immediate consumption on and/or off the premises,
                                including any part of such building or part thereof which may be used for dining by the
RESTAURANT:                     general public. The retail sale of beer, wine and other alcoholic beverages for consumption on
                                the premises and dancing may be provided on the premises. Reheating of already prepared food
                                by microwave and/or the selling of already prepared food for consumption off premises does not
                                constitute a restaurant.
RETAIL:                         See INDOOR RETAIL SALE OF GOODS.
RETIREMENT HOME:                See SKILLED CARE FACILITY.
                                As defined in Section 6.502 of this Code: An area of land not on a lot that is dedicated for
RIGHT-OF-WAY:                   public or private use to accommodate a transportation system and necessary public utility
                                infrastructure (including but not limited to water lines, sewer lines, power lines and gas
                                lines). In no case shall a right-of-way be construed to mean an easement.
                                Water that flows over the surface of the land when rainfall is not able to infiltrate into the
RUNOFF:                         soil, due to soil saturation, impervious surface or the rate of rainfall exceeds the rate of
                                water infiltration into the ground.
                                An open area, other than a street used for the display or sale of merchandise. In the case of
SALES AREA:                     new or used automobiles or trailers other than mobile homes and house trailers, no repair work
                                may be done except for minor vehicle repair and repair of trailers to be displayed and sold on
                                premises.
SALES OFFICE:                   An accessory structure temporarily used as a sales office for a permitted outdoor sales use.
SANATORIUM:                     See HOSPITAL.
SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL/TRADE        A school which principally offers, for profit, specific courses of instruction in business,
SCHOOL:                         trade, industry or other trained skills, but does not offer academic instruction equivalent to
                                the standards prescribed by the School Code of Illinois.
                                An institution conducting regular academic instruction at kindergarten, elementary, junior
SCHOOL, PRIVATE/NON-PROFIT:     high or senior high school levels, operated by governmental or nongovernmental organizations
                                (which programs are accepted by the State of Illinois in lieu of public instruction).
SCREEN:                         A structure or planting composed of sufficient material to obstruct vision beyond the screen
                                as defined in or determined through City review of screening required in this Code.
SEPTIC SYSTEM:                  An underground system with a septic tank used for the discharge of domestic sewage waste.
SERVICE STATION:                See MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR FACILITY.
SETBACK:                        Refers to matters of spatial definition and shall mean the mandatory distance between a
                                frontage line and a facade, or a lot line and an elevation.
                                A large tree with main purpose of this type of tree in landscape designs is to provide shade
SHADE TREE:                     and scale against buildings, with a spreading crown and canopy, and standard growth habit with
                                an average mature height in excess of twenty feet (20').
                                A relatively small storage structure often purchased pre-built or as a kit in pre-fabricated
SHED:                           sections. It is not designed to be served by heat, electricity or plumbing and does not need
                                to be placed on a permanent foundation. The structure is intended to store lawn, garden, or
                                pool care equipment.
SHOPPING CENTER:                A group of more than five (5) business establishments planned, developed and managed as a
                                unit, located on the same lot with off street parking provided on the property.
SHORT TERM RESIDENTIAL RENTAL:  Any dwelling or portion thereof, made available for use or used for accommodations or lodging
                                of guests paying a fee or other compensation for a period of less than 30 consecutive days.
SHRUB:                          A branched woody plant with an unmaintained average mature height less than eight feet (8').
                                Any display, figure, painting, drawings, placard, poster or other device visible from a public
                                right of way that is designed, intended or used to convey a message, advertise, inform or
                                direct attention to a person, institution, organization, activity, place, object or product.
SIGN:                           It may be a structure or part thereof painted on or attached directly or indirectly on a
                                structure. This definition does not include any flag or insignia of any nation, state, city or
                                other political units, as well as any sign, board or surface used to display or announce
                                official notice of such political units. As further defined in Chapter 13 of this Code.
                                A triangular area established on private property at the intersection of two (2) streets or a
                                street and a driveway in which nothing shall be erected, planted, or allowed to grow so as to
SIGHT TRIANGLE:                 limit or obstruct the sight distance of motorists and pedestrians.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2827.png]
SITE, BUILDING:                 The ground area of a building or a group of buildings together with all open spaces as
                                required by this chapter.
                                An establishment for the care of the aged or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering
SKILLED CARE FACILITY:          bodily disorders, including assisted senior living, skilled senior living, memory care, and
                                extended stay physical rehab.
SMOKE SHOP:                     A business establishment that offers smoking cigars, vaping or smoking from a communal pipe
                                device known as a hookah pipe and used to smoke flavored tobacco or herbal products.
                                1.   An assembly, structure, or design, including passive elements, used for gathering,
SOLAR COLLECTOR:                concentrating, or absorbing direct or indirect solar energy, specially designed for holding a
                                substantial amount of thermal energy and to transfer that energy to a gas, solid, or liquid or
                                to use that energy directly; or
                               2.   A mechanism that absorbs solar energy and converts it into electricity; or
                               3.   A mechanism or process used for gathering solar energy through wind or thermal gradients;
                                or
                               4.   A component used to transfer thermal energy to a gas, solid, or liquid, or to convert it
                                into electricity.
SOLAR ENERGY:                   Radiant energy received from the sun at wavelengths suitable for heat transfer, photosynthetic
                                use, or photovoltaic use.
                                1.   Solar Energy System Includes: A complete assembly, structure, or design of a solar
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM:            collector, or a solar mechanism, which uses solar energy for generating electricity or for
                                heating or cooling gases, solids, liquids, or other materials:
                                  a.   The design, materials, or elements of a system and its maintenance, operation, and
                                labor systems designed or constructed to interface with a solar energy system; and
                                   b.   Any legal, financial, or institutional orders, certificates, or mechanisms, including
                               easements, leases, and agreements, required to ensure continued access to solar energy, its
                                source, or its use in a solar energy system, and including monitoring and educational elements
                                of a demonstration project.
                               2.   Solar energy system does not include:
                                   a.   Distribution equipment that is equally usable in a conventional energy system except
                               for such components of such equipment as are necessary for meeting the requirements of
                                efficient solar energy utilization;
                                   b.   Components of a solar energy system that serve structural, insulating, protective,
                               shading, aesthetic, or other non solar energy utilization purposes, as defined in the
                                regulations of the department of energy; and
                                  c.   Any facilities of a public utility used to transmit or distribute gas or electricity.
                                Equipment or elements (such as piping and transfer mechanisms, containers, heat exchangers, or
SOLAR STORAGE MECHANISM:        controls thereof, and gases, solids, liquids, or combinations thereof) that are utilized for
                                storing solar energy, gathered by a solar collector, for subsequent use.
                                A use which, because of its unique characteristics cannot be properly classified in any
SPECIAL USE:                    particular zoning district or districts without consideration in each individual case of the
                                impact of such use upon neighboring land and of the public need for that particular special
                                use at that particular location.
SPORTS COURTS:                  An area designed and designated for active recreation, including but not limited to basketball
                                courts, tennis courts, or skating rinks. Does not include any area designed as a driveway.
STADIUM:                        A building or outdoor area or structure specifically designed and used as a place of assembly
                                for events related to sports, concerts, civic gatherings, private functions, etc.
                                Storage of stormwater in a manner that promotes infiltration into the ground while providing
                                volumetric storage for the additional runoff. Examples of stormwater management systems
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM:   include, but are not limited to, French drain, rain garden, underground storage system,
                                drywell, rainwater harvesting system and properly installed pervious surface materials (such
                                as porous concrete, permeable pavers, open cell cavities, etc.).
                                That portion of a building included between the upper surface of a floor and the upper surface
STORY:                          of a floor or roof next above.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2829.png]
                                The paved or unpaved portion of a public or private right-of-way, other than an alley which
STREET:                         affords principal means of vehicular access to abutting property.
                                [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                2831.png]
STREET, LOCAL:                  A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to abutting properties and designated
                                “nonarterial” by the Public Works Director.
STREET ORIENTATION:             The direction of the architectural front facade of a building in relation to the street.
                                Any change or modification, other than incidental repairs or which are required by provisions
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION:          of this chapter, which would prolong the life of the supporting member of a structure such as
                                bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
                                Anything erected, the use of which requires permanent location on or in the ground or attached
STRUCTURE:                      to something having a permanent location on or in the ground, including, but not limited to,
                                buildings, towers, antennas, freestanding signs, decks, garden sheds, swimming pools and hard
                                surfacing, such as pervious surfacing, asphalt, concrete, etc.
STRUCTURE, NONCONFORMING:       A structure that was lawfully established but no longer complies with applicable lot and
                                building regulations or other dimensional or locational requirements of this Article.
STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL:           See BUILDING, PRINCIPAL.
                                A subdivision is (1) any change, rearrangement or resubdivision in the boundary or divisional
SUBDIVISION.                    lines of any parcel or parcels of real estate or any public thoroughfare; (2) the platting of
                                a parcel or tract of land into a single numbered lot without alteration of its boundaries; (3)
                                a planned development or planned unit development; or (4) a development.
SWIMMING POOL:                  A structure designed to hold water and maintain a water depth of twenty-four inches (24") or
                                more, but not including hot tubs or wading pools.
TATTOO PARLOR:                  A commercial use where tattooing is performed for compensation.
                                An establishment for the retail sale of beer, wine and other alcoholic beverages for
TAVERN:                         consumption on the premises and providing a menu of food items prepared during all hours of
                                operation. The incidental sale of packaged liquor may be provided during the hours of
                                operation. Dancing and entertainment may be included as part of this use.
TERRACE:                        A relatively leveled paved or planted area on top of a flat roof or open platform adjoining a
                                building.
TOMBSTONE AND MONUMENT SALES:   An establishment involved, in part or in whole, in the retail sale of tombstones, gravestones,
                                burial monuments, and other similar items.
TRACT:                          Used interchangeably with the term “lot”, particularly in the context of subdivisions, where
                                one “tract” is subdivided into several “lots”.
TRAILER:                        Any structure built on a chassis for licensing by the Secretary of State as a trailer and
                                designed for general hauling or recreational purposes.
TRANSIT STATION/ FACILITY:      A building or area specifically designated for the assembly and boarding and unboarding of
                                passengers to/from a train or bus.
TRELLIS:                        A frame of wooden or metal, mainly used to support small trees or climbing plants.
                                As defined in Section 15.153 of this Code: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
TRUCK TRACTOR:                  drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of the
                                weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
USE:                            The purpose or purposes for which land, buildings or structures is (are) designed, arranged or
                                intended, or for which they are or may be occupied or maintained.
                                Any use of land, buildings or structures which conforms with the list of permitted uses of the
                                zoning district in which the land, building or structure is located, or which is governed by
USE, CONFORMING:                an active special use permit authorized by the City Council. If the use is a permitted use but
                                does not conform to the intensity of use regulations of the district in which it is situated,
                                then the use shall not be deemed to be a conforming use.
                                Any building or structure or use of any building or structure or tract of land, lawfully
USE, NONCONFORMING:             existing or under construction at the time of adoption of this chapter or of a later
                                amendment, but does not conform to one or more of the requirements or restrictions of this
                                chapter.
                                Infrastructure services that typically have substantial visual or operational impacts on
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICE    nearby areas. Typical uses include, but are not limited to, water and wastewater treatment
FACILITY, MAJOR:                facilities, high voltage electric substations, utility scale power generation facilities
                                (including wind, solar and other renewable and nonrenewable energy sources), sanitary
                                landfills and utility scale water storage facilities, such as water towers and reservoirs.
                                1.   Infrastructure services that need to be located in or close to the area where the service
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICE    is provided. Minor utilities and public service facilities generally do not have regular
FACILITY, MINOR:                employees at the site and typically have few if any impacts on surrounding areas such as
                                poles, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains, valves or other similar
                                equipment for the distribution to consumers of
                                telephone or other communications, electricity, gas, water, or for the collection of sewage.
                                Typical uses also include water and sewer pump stations; gas regulating stations; underground
                               electric distribution substations; electric transformers; water conveyance systems; stormwater
                                facilities and conveyance systems; telephone switching equipment and emergency communication
                                warning/broadcast facilities.
                                2.   The production, collection or distribution of renewable energy, water or other similar
                               resources at a neighborhood, district or campus scale are classified as minor utilities and
                                public service facilities. This includes distributed energy facilities that produce or
                                distribute energy from renewable sources and neighborhood stormwater facilities.
                                3.   Energy production systems that generate energy from the byproducts of the principal use
                               are considered accessory uses, including net metered installations and installations that
                                generate power to sell at wholesale to the power grid.
                                A modification of the application of this chapter in specific cases where practical
VARIATION:                      difficulties or particular hardships, not intended or not common to other property owners in
                                the district, would result from following the strict letter of this chapter.
                                An interior wall that separates and distinguishes two (2) or more uses located in the same
WALL, COMMON:                   building or structure. A common wall extends from floor to ceiling and from exterior wall to
                                exterior wall, and conforms to the fire resistance requirements of the City’s Building Code.
                                A structure, or portion thereof, used principally for the storage of goods and merchandise
WAREHOUSE:                      conducted within a completely enclosed building, that is not a freight handling or warehouse
                                and distribution facility.
                                A building used in the storage, wholesale, and distribution of manufactured products,
WAREHOUSE AND DISTRIBUTION:     supplies, and equipment, but excluding bulk storage of materials that are flammable or
                                explosive or that create hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions.
WHOLESALE:                      The sale of goods, wares, or merchandise to retailers or distributors rather than consumers.
                                A lot or any portion of a lot where two (2) or more motor vehicles or trailers which, for a
                                period of thirty (30) days, have not been capable of operating under their own power, and from
WRECKING YARD, MOTOR VEHICLE:   which parts have been or are to be removed for sale or reuse, or any land, buildings, or
                                structures used for the wrecking, dismantling, salvage, sale or storage of such motor
                                vehicles, trailers or the parts thereof.
                                The open space on a lot between the elevation of the påincipal structure and the adjacent lot
                                line.
YARD:                           [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/IMAGES/0-0-0-
                                3527.png]
                                Porch encroachment into front yard
YARD, CORNER SIDE:              The open space on a lot between the corner side lot line and the side wall(s) of the principal
                                structure closest to the corner side lot line, excluding any rear or front yards.
YARD, FRONT:                    The open space on a lot between the front lot line and the front wall of the principal
                                structure.
YARD, REAR:                     The open space on a lot between the rear lot line and the rear wall of the principal
                                structure, excluding any corner side yard.
YARD, SIDE:                     The open space between the side lot line and the side wall of the principal structure closest
                                to the side lot line, excluding any rear or front yards.
                                The required front, side, corner side or rear yard on a lot in a commercial or industrial
YARD, TRANSITIONAL:             district, or for a nonresidential use in a residential district and an adjoining residential
                                use in a residential district, except when such yard is adjacent to a railroad right-of-way,
                                alley or street.
 
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-22-030, 11-17-2022; Ord. O-24-002, 2-15-
2024; Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-2024; Ord. O-25-011, 3-20-2025)
ARTICLE II
ZONING ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
17.201. Administrative Officials And Bodies
17.202. Planning Documents And Procedures
17.203. Zoning Certificates
17.204. Interpretations, Appeal And Variations
17.205. Amendments, Special Use, And Other Approvals
17.206. Site Plan Review
Sec. 17.201. Administrative Officials And Bodies.
   A.   Development Administrator.
      1.   General Powers. The Development Administrator will be charged with
the administration and enforcement of this UDO. In addition to the
jurisdiction, authority and duties conferred on the Development Administrator
by other provisions of State statutes and City codes and ordinances, the
Development Administrator will have all powers necessary to such administration
and enforcement, and will, in particular, have the jurisdiction, authority and
duties hereinafter set forth.
      2.   Rules; Regulations; Application Forms. The Development Administrator
will, consistent with the express standards, purposes and intent of this UDO,
promulgate, adopt and issue procedural rules, regulations and forms as are in
the Development Administrator’s opinion necessary to the effective
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this UDO.
      3.   Staff Assistance to the Community Development Commission. The
Development Administrator will make staff and consulting assistance available
to the Community Development Commission, and the Development Administrator, or
his delegate, will in that capacity:
         a.   Attend the meetings of the Community Development Commission;
         b.   Inform the Community Development Commission of all facts and
information at the Development Administrator’s disposal with respect to any
matter brought before the Community Development Commission;
         c.   Assist the Community Development Commission by performing
research and making recommendations on matters brought before each body; and
         d.   Perform such other duties as may be assigned to the Development
Administrator by this UDO and by the direction of the City Council.
      4.   Records. The Development Administrator will, subject to City record
retention policies, maintain:
         a.   Permanent and current records of this UDO, including all maps;
amendments; special use permits and other special approvals; planned unit
development and site plan approvals and denials; interpretations; and decisions
rendered by the Community Development Commission, the City Attorney and the
Development Administrator, together with relevant background files and
materials and final disposition of the City Council;
         b.   A current file of all Zoning Certificates and notices of
violations, terminations, discontinuance or removal, issued by or entrusted to
Development Administrator’s office, for such times necessary to ensure
continuous compliance with the provisions of this UDO; and
         c.   A current file of all nonconforming uses and signs in the City,
by location and type of use.
      5.   Zoning Text; Zoning Map. The Development Administrator will prepare
and have available for public on or before March 31 of each year:
         a.   The compiled text of this UDO in book or pamphlet form, including
all amendments thereto through the preceding December 31; and
         b.   The official Zoning Map, showing the zoning districts, divisions
and classifications in effect on the preceding December 31.
The Development Administrator will, at all other times, maintain, and have
available for reproduction, at least one up-to-date copy of both this UDO text
and the Zoning Map, showing all amendments through the most recent meeting of a
City Council for which official minutes have been approved.
      6.   Applications: Receipt, Processing, Referral to Interested Parties
and Agencies.
         a.   The Development Administrator will receive all applications
required to be filed pursuant to this UDO. Upon receipt of an application, the
Development Administrator will see to its expeditious processing, including its
prompt referral to and retrieval from each official department, board or
commission of the City, or other government, with any interest or duty with
respect to the application.
         b.   Unless otherwise provided in this UDO, the Development
Administrator may waive any application requirements where the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Development Administrator that the
information required is not relevant to or necessary for the determination of
the application.
      7.   Investigation of Applications. Whenever the Community Development
Commission or the City Council will, by general rule or specific direction, so
request, the Development Administrator will conduct or cause to be conducted
such surveys, investigations and field studies, and will prepare or cause to be
prepared such reports, maps, photographs, charts and exhibits, as will be
necessary and appropriate to the processing of any application filed pursuant
to this UDO.
      8.   Zoning Certificates. Pursuant to the provisions of Section
17.203.A. of this Article, the Development Administrator will review all
applications for Zoning Certificates and approve or disapprove such
applications and issue or refuse to issue such certificates based on compliance
or noncompliance with the provisions of this UDO.
      9.   Interpretations. Pursuant to the provisions of Section
17.204.A. of this Article, the Development Administrator will issue his written
interpretation of the meaning and applicability of specific provisions of this
UDO. Any interpretation of this UDO that may be rendered by the Community
Development Commission or the Development Administrator will be kept on file
with the Development Administrator and will be a public record of the City.
      10.   Approval of Site Plans. Pursuant to the provisions of Section
17.206 of this Article, the Development Administrator will have authority to
review and approve or deny applications for site plan approval.
      11.   Planned Unit Development and Site Plan Modifications. Pursuant to
the provisions of Section
17.205.C. and Section
17.206 of this Article, the Development Administrator will have authority to
permit adjustments to final plans for planned unit developments and to site
plans.
      12.   Extensions of Time.
         a.   The Development Administrator may, upon written request, for good
cause shown and without any notice or hearing, grant extensions of any time
limit imposed on an applicant or permittee by this UDO unless an ordinance or
resolution expressly provides otherwise. The total period of time granted by
such extension or extensions will not exceed the length of the original period
or 90 days, whichever is less.
         b.   The City Council may, upon written request, for good cause shown,
and without any notice or hearing, grant extensions of any time limited imposed
on an applicant or permittee by this UDO provided an ordinance or resolution,
as appropriate, is duly adopted by a two-thirds vote of the City Council. The
total period of time granted by such extension or extensions will be
specifically stated in the ordinance or resolution.
      13.   Inspection and Enforcement. In furtherance of enforcing this UDO,
the Development Administrator will:
         a.   undertake regular and continuing programs of inspection of work
approved and under way and of existing structures and uses as may be feasible
and proper;
         b.   undertake additional inspections as may be necessary to the
performance of his duties under this UDO;
         c.   receive from any person complaints alleging, with particularity,
a violation of this UDO; and
         d.   when appropriate will cause investigations and inspections as may
be warranted under the circumstances.
Upon finding the existence of any violation of this UDO, the Development
Administrator will take or direct all actions necessary or appropriate to
punish and abate such violation.
      14.   Reports. The Development Administrator will, from time to time,
prepare and submit a report to the City Council and the Community Development
Commission concerning the administration of the land use and development
regulations of the City, setting forth information and statistical data as may
be of interest and value in advancing and furthering the goals and purposes of
such regulations and setting forth the Development Administrator’s
recommendations for the improvement of these regulations and their
administration.
   B.   Community Development Commission.
      1.   Established. The Community Development Commission established in
Chapter 3, Article III of the City of Wood Dale Municipal Code, as amended, is
the Board of Zoning Appeals and Plan Commission referred to in this UDO. The
provisions of this UDO with respect to the Community Development Commission
will be deemed supplementary to the provisions of the City of Wood Dale
Municipal Code, as amended. Reference should be made to the City of Wood Dale
Municipal Code for a complete description of the membership, term of office and
rules of procedure of the Community Development Commission. Any distinctions
made in this UDO between the Board of Zoning Appeals and Plan Commission are
established for the purposes of defining the authority of the Community
Development Commission and in what capacity it is operating on a particular
form of relief provided under this Article.
      2.   Membership. The Community Development Commission shall consist of
the membership as established in Chapter 3, Article III of the City of Wood
Dale Municipal Code, as amended.
      3.   Term. Each member of the Community Development Commission shall
serve terms as specified in Chapter 3, Article III of the City of Wood Dale
Municipal Code, as amended.
      4.   Dissolution. The Corporate Authorities may, in their sole and
absolute discretion, dissolve the Community Development Commission and
establish a distinct Board of Zoning Appeals and distinct Plan Commission. At
the time of any such dissolution, current members of the Community Development
Commission will be appointed to the newly formed Board of Zoning Appeals and
Plan Commission and the remaining seats open on the Board of Zoning Appeals and
Plan Commission will be filled by the Mayor with the confirmation by the City
Council.
   C.   Community Development Commission Authority and Procedures
      1.   The Community Development Commission is hereby vested with the
following powers and duties:
         a.   To hear, consider and recommend to the City Council matters
dealing with amendments to this UDO or the official Zoning Map.
         b.   To hear, consider and recommend to the City Council matters
dealing with the granting of special uses.
         c.   To hear, consider and recommend to the City Council variances to
this UDO, including those that may be requested in connection with special
uses, rezoning, subdivisions, annexation requests, or other zoning approval
requests.
         d.   To hear, consider and recommend to the City Council matters
dealing with the granting of planned unit developments.
         e.   To prepare and recommend to the City Council a new Comprehensive
Land Use Plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of the
City and contiguous unincorporated territory within one and one-half (1½) miles
of the corporate limits of the City and not located in any other municipality.
         f.   To designate, subject to final consideration, evaluation and
approval of the City Council, land suitable for annexation to the City and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
         g.   To recommend to the City Council, from time to time, such changes
in the Comprehensive Land Use Plan or any part thereof, as may be deemed
necessary.
         h.   To prepare and recommend to the City Council, from time to time,
plans or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of the
Comprehensive Land Use Plan’s goals and objectives.
         i.   To give aid to the officials of the City charged with the
direction of projects for improvements embraced within the Comprehensive Land
Use Plan, or parts thereof, to further the making of such improvements and
generally to promote the realization of the Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
         j.   To consider and recommend to the City Council all matters which
it is required to act upon under the terms of this Article.
         k.   To recommend, subject to final consideration, evaluation and
approval by the City Council, reasonable standards of design for subdivisions
and for resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment
with respect to public improvements.
         l.   To recommend, subject to final consideration, evaluation and
approval by the City Council, reasonable standards governing the location,
width, course and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for
public service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and
sewage collection and treatment.
         m.   To initiate, study and make recommendations regarding matters
dealing with the planning of the community.
         n.   To initiate, direct and review, from time to time, studies of the
provisions of this Article, and to make recommendations to the City Council
regarding any changes to the ordinance.
         o.   To cooperate with the municipal or regional planning commissions
and other agencies or groups to further local planning initiatives and to
assure harmonious and integrated planning for the area.
         p.   To hear, consider and make final determinations on appeals from
decisions and interpretations under this UDO by the Development Administrator.
      2.   Necessary Vote. The concurring vote of at least a majority of the
currently appointed Members will be necessary to take any action or adopt any
motion to recommend approval of any matter or application, or to issue a
decision from an appeal of a decision or interpretation of the Development
Administrator. Any lesser vote on any such motion, even if a majority of those
voting, will be considered a final decision to recommend denial of such matter
or application.
      3.   Record and Decisions.
         a.   The transcript of testimony, if any; the minutes of the
Secretary; all applications, requests, exhibits and papers filed in any
proceeding before the Community Development Commission; and the decision of the
Community Development Commission will constitute the record. The Community
Development Commission may rely on the personal knowledge of its members, on
its inspections of the property and on any reports available to it; provided,
however, that the Community Development Commission will make the particular
knowledge, inspection or report a matter of record at the public hearing and
afford every party reasonable time to respond to it.
         b.   Every decision of the Community Development Commission that is
deemed to be a final decision on a matter will be by written resolution which
will include findings of fact; refer to all the evidence in the record and to
the exhibits, plans or specifications upon which the decision is based; specify
the reason or reasons for the decision; contain a conclusion or statement
separate from the findings of fact setting forth the specific relief granted or
denying relief; and expressly set forth any limitations or conditions imposed
on any relief granted or work or use authorized.
         c.   The Community Development Commission will take no final or
binding vote on a decision unless it first has before it the written
resolution; provided, however, that where special circumstances warrant it, as
determined by the Community Development Commission, it may take final action
prior to the preparation of the resolution but before taking such action, first
state its findings and conclusions at a meeting open to the public and will, in
addition, state the special circumstances.
         d.   Every decision of the Community Development Commission that is
deemed to be a recommendation to the City Council may be made by written
resolution or by written report of the Chair or the Chair’s designee to the
Corporate Authorities in accordance with the provisions of this Subsection
17.201.B.3.
         e.   In any case where this UDO provides that the failure of the
Community Development Commission to act within a fixed period is deemed to be a
denial of an application, the failure will, notwithstanding the absence of
required findings and conclusions, be considered to be a decision of the
Community Development Commission rendered on the day following the expiration
of such fixed period. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.202. Planning Documents and Procedures.
   A.   Official Comprehensive Plan and Other Subarea or Subject Plans.
      1.   Authority. The Community Development Commission will have authority
to prepare and recommend to the City Council a comprehensive plan including the
City and unincorporated areas surrounding the City and from time to time to
prepare and recommend other special area or subject plans and amendments
thereto, any or all of which the City Council may adopt as the “The City of
Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan, [YEAR ADOPTED],” all in accordance with
the procedures set out in this Section.
      2.   Definition.
         a.   “The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan” will be
defined as a compilation of policy statements; goals; standards; maps;
recommended planning, regulatory, fiscal and public works programs; together
with pertinent data relative to the past, present and future trends of the City
with respect to its population, housing, economic, social and environmental
development patterns; its land, water and natural resources and use; its
transportation facilities, public facilities and utilities; and any other
matter relative to the present and future patterns of life within the City or
within the unincorporated areas lying within one and one-half miles of its
boundaries as they may from time to time exist, prepared and recommended by the
Community Development Commission with the advice and assistance of the
Development Administrator and the Development Administrator’s staff and adopted
by the City Council by ordinance duly enacted, together with such amendments
thereto as may be adopted from time to time.
         b.   The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan will also refer
to any compilation relating to any one or more of the above noted subjects or
to any subarea of the City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use geographical
area.
         c.   As of the effective date of this UDO, the City of Wood Dale
Comprehensive Land Use Plan is understood to refer to the following documents:
            (1)   The Wood Dale Comprehensive Plan, adopted August 2, 2018, as
may be amended from time to time;
            (2)   The Homes for a Changing Region Plan, adopted in 2015, as may
be amended from time to time;
            (3)   The City’s Vision Plan, adopted in 2013, as may be amended
from time to time.
      3.   Purpose. The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan will be
considered an official statement of the policy of the City with respect to the
existing and developing character of the various areas of the City and its
vicinity; the proper objectives, standards and direction for future
maintenance, growth, development and redevelopment of the City; the means to be
employed to protect existing character or development and to encourage future
development that will be in the best interests of the City; and the actions and
programs to be undertaken by the City with respect to its future maintenance
and development.
      4.   Effect. After the adoption of The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive
Land Use Plan, or a part thereof, no ordinance, regulation or Official Map
relating to the physical maintenance, development or redevelopment of the City
or any land within it will be enacted, established, amended or varied and no
right-of-way, street, utility or public structure or land will be authorized,
established, developed, redeveloped or modified in location or extent except in
accordance with the policies, goals, objectives, principles and standards of
The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan or relevant part thereof
unless the City Council will first make a specific finding that the facts and
circumstances affecting the particular matter justify a departure from the
Plan.
      5.   Procedures.
         a.   Plan Development. The Community Development Commission, with the
assistance of the Development Administrator and staff, will exercise the powers
and duties delegated to it by this UDO in the continuing development and
revision of The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan. The process of
plan development is necessarily an informal one, not readily adaptable to rigid
procedures, but the Community Development Commission and the Development
Administrator, in developing a plan, will make all reasonable efforts to obtain
the views, comments and criticisms of interested persons. The Community
Development Commission, prior to making any recommendation for the adoption or
amendment of a plan or part thereof to the City Council, will set, notice and
conduct a public hearing thereon in accordance with the provisions of Section
17.201.E. of this Article.
         b.   The City Council may, at any time, refer a plan to the Community
Development Commission for consideration and recommendation. In the case of
such referral, the Community Development Commission will return its
recommendation to the City Council not later than 90 days following the receipt
of the referral. In the event such recommendation is not so delivered, the City
Council may proceed to consider the amendment without such recommendation.
         c.   When satisfied that a plan, or any part or subarea plan, is
adequate for adoption as The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan, the
Community Development Commission will transmit the plan or part thereof to the
City Council together with its recommendations for adoption of the plan as well
as any reports or statements necessary to a full consideration of the plan or
part thereof. The reports or statements may include majority and minority
positions. The transmission will be made not later than fifteen (15) days
following the close of the public hearing concerning the plan or any part
thereof.
      6.   Plan Adoption. Upon receiving any recommendation of the Community
Development Commission with respect to adoption or amendment of any plan, or a
part thereof, the City Council may, by ordinance duly enacted, adopt the plan
in whole or in part, with or without amendments; or may refer the plan or any
part of it back to the Community Development Commission for further
consideration; or may reject the plan. The City Council will take action no
later than ninety (90) days following the close of the Community Development
Commission public hearing on the plan. The failure of the City Council to act
within this period will be deemed to be a rejection of the plan. Upon the
adoptions of any plan or part thereof, it will be designated as the “The City
of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan, [YEAR ADOPTED],” and if less than a
total comprehensive plan, will carry a subheading designating its specific
contents.
      7.   Plan Amendment. The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan,
or any part thereof, may be amended at any time in accordance with the
provisions of this Section
17.202.A.7. An amendment may be initiated by the City Council, the Community
Development Commission, the Development Administrator, or by any owner of
property affected by the provisions of such plan sought to be amended.
         a.   Amendments initiated by the City Council, the Community
Development Commission or the Development Administrator will require no formal
application and will be processed as provided in Sections
17.202.E.2.f. and
17.202.E.2.g.
         b.   Amendments initiated by the owner of affected property will be
initiated by an application filed pursuant to this Article, except that the
time limits specified in Section
17.202.A.5. and Section
17.202.E.2.f. will apply.
      8.   Plan Filing and Notice of Adoption. The ordinance adopting The City
of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan, or any part thereof, will provide
that the Development Administrator will cause a certified copy thereof to be
placed on file in the Office of the City Clerk, and will cause a notice
evidencing the adoption of such plan, or part thereof, to be filed with the
DuPage County Recorder of Deeds.
   B.   Official Future Land Use Map.
      1.   Authority. The Community Development Commission will have authority
to prepare and to recommend to the City Council an Official Map of the City and
the unincorporated areas surrounding the City and from time to time to prepare
and recommend amendments thereto, all of which the City Council may adopt as
the “Official Map of the City of Wood Dale.”
      2.   Definition. The “Official Map” will be defined as a compilation of
maps, standards and specifications of and for existing and proposed rights-of-
way, streets, alleys, utility easements, public grounds and public utility
systems within the City or within the unincorporated area lying within one and
one-half miles of its boundaries as they may from time to time exist, prepared
and recommended by the Community Development Commission with the advice and
assistance of the Development Administrator and the Development Administrator’s
staff and adopted by the City Council by ordinance duly enacted, together with
such amendments thereto as may be adopted from time to time.
      3.   Purpose. The Official Map is adopted to implement The City of Wood
Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan, to assure the adequacy of the public
facilities to which it relates and to secure for the City the authority and
benefits provided by state law in connection with such an Official Map.
      4.   Procedures. The procedures for the development, adoption, amendment
and filing of the Official Map will be the same as those provided in Section
17.202.A.5. of this Article with respect to The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive
Land Use Plan.
   C.   Zoning Applications.
      1.   Place of Filing.
         a.   Applications for Zoning Certificates, Code Interpretations and
Certain Site Plan Approvals. All applications for a Zoning Certificate pursuant
to Section
17.203 of this Article, an interpretation pursuant to Section
17.204.A. of this Article, Administrative Variation pursuant to Section
17.204.D. of this Article, and a site plan approval pursuant to Section
17.206.D.1. of this Article, will be filed with the Office of the Development
Administrator or with such other City official or body as the Development
Administrator may designate.
         b.   Applications for Appeals and Variations. All applications for an
appeal pursuant to Section
17.204.B. of this Article and a variation pursuant to Section
17.204.C. of this Article will be filed with the office of the Development
Administrator for processing pursuant to Section
17.201.A.6. of this Article.
         c.   Applications for Amendments, Special Use Approvals and Certain
Site Plan Approvals. All applications for an amendment pursuant to Section
17.205.A. of this Article, a special use permit pursuant to Section
17.205.B. of this Article, a planned unit development pursuant to Section
17.205.C. of this Article will be filed with the office of the Development
Administrator for referral to the Community Development Commission. An
application for appeal of site plan denial pursuant to Section
17.206.D.2. of this Article, will be filed with the office of the Development
Administrator for referral to the Corporate Authorities.
      2.   Forms, Number, Scale. All applications filed pursuant to this UDO
will be on forms supplied by the City and will be filed in a number of
duplicate copies as the Development Administrator may designate. All plans
filed as part of any application will be at a scale sufficient to permit a
clear and precise understanding of the contents of said plan and the proposal
being made and will be folded to a convenient size for handling and filing in
standard, legal size legal drawers.
      3.   Filing Deadlines.
         a.   Applications Requiring Hearings. Applications requiring public
hearing will not be scheduled for such hearing unless and until filed in a
complete and proper form and number and containing all required information.
         b.   Applications Not Requiring Hearing. Applications that do not
require a public hearing will be filed, in a complete and proper form and
number and containing all required information, at least 35 days prior to the
time when action on the application is requested. Applications will be
processed on a first-filed, first-processed basis.
         c.   Supplemental Data. Whenever supplemental data in connection with
a previously filed application is required by the City or offered by the
applicant, it will be submitted at least seven days prior to the date on which
it is to be considered at a hearing or a meeting or acted upon in connection
with such application. The filing of this data will, in the discretion of the
Development Administrator and of the body hearing the application, be cause to
delay a requested or scheduled hearing date.
      4.   Fees.
         a.   Fee Established; Lien.
            (1)   Every application filed pursuant to this UDO will be subject
to a non-refundable application and filing fee in the amount established by the
City Council and published in a Master Fee Schedule that will be on file with
the Development Administrator’s office, plus the actual cost incurred by the
City in processing such application.
            (2)   The owner of the property which is the subject of the
application and, if different, the applicant, will be jointly and severally
liable for the payment of the application fee, as well as the actual City
application processing costs. By submitting the application, owner is deemed to
have agreed to pay any fees and processing costs, to consent to the filing, and
foreclosure of a lien on the property to ensure collection of any fee and
processing costs, plus the costs of collection, which has not been paid within
thirty (30) days following the mailing of a written demand for payment to the
owner at the address shown on the application. Any lien filed pursuant to this
Section
17.202.C.4. may be foreclosed in the manner provided by statute for mortgages
or mechanics liens.
         b.   Recoverable Costs. For purposes of calculating the fee due
pursuant to Paragraph 4.a. above, the actual costs incurred by the City in
processing an application will be deemed to consist of the following items of
direct and indirect expense:
            (1)   Legal Publication (direct cost)
            (2)   Recording Secretarial Services (direct cost)
            (3)   Court Reporter (direct cost)
            (4)   Professional and Technical Consultant Services (direct cost)
            (5)   Legal Review, Consultation, Advice, Negotiation, and Document
Preparation (direct cost)
            (6)   Copy Reduction (direct cost)
            (7)   Document Recordation (direct cost)
         c.   Fee Payment and Escrow.
            (1)   Initial Payment and Escrow. Every application filed pursuant
to this UDO will be accompanied by the required fee plus an additional amount
for recoverable costs as provided in Section
17.202.C.4.b., as fixed from time to time by the Development Administrator, to
be deposited in an application fee escrow. No interest will be payable on any
such escrow.
            (2)   Charges Against Escrow. From the date of filing of any
application pursuant to this UDO, the City will maintain an accurate record of
the actual costs, as hereinabove defined, of processing such application. The
Development Administrator will, from time to time, draw funds from the escrow
account established for such application to pay such costs and will transfer
such funds to the appropriate City accounts. The Development Administrator will
maintain an accurate record of all such drawings.
            (3)   Additional Escrow Deposits. Should the Development
Administrator at any time determine that the escrow account established in
connection with any application is, or is likely to become, insufficient to pay
the actual costs of processing such application, the Development Administrator
will inform the applicant and demand an additional deposit in an amount deemed
sufficient to cover foreseeable additional costs. Unless and until the
additional amount is deposited by the applicant, the Development Administrator
may direct that processing of the application will be suspended or terminated.
            (4)   Final Settlement.
                (A)   As soon as reasonably feasible following final action on
an application, the Development Administrator will cause a final accounting to
be made of the escrow deposits made in connection with the application and the
actual cost of processing the application and will make a final charge of such
costs against the escrow deposits. A copy of the accounting will be provided to
the owner and the applicant.
               (B)   If the amount in the escrow account is insufficient to pay
the total actual costs, a written demand for payment of the balance due will be
mailed to the owner and the applicant. If unused balance remains in the escrow
account after paying the total actual costs, it will be returned to the
applicant.
      5.   Condition of All Applications, Approvals and Permits; Time Periods.
         a.   No application filed pursuant to this UDO will be considered
complete unless and until all fees and deposits due pursuant to this Section
17.202.C.5. have been paid. Every approval granted and every permit issued
pursuant to this UDO will, whether or not expressly so conditioned, be deemed
to be conditioned upon payment of fees as required by this Section
17.202.C.5.
         b.   Where this UDO provides that the passage of time without decision
or action will be deemed an approval or a recommendation for approval, time
periods will be tolled during any period of non-payment, but will otherwise
continue to run.
         c.   The failure to fully pay any such fee or deposit, when due, will
be grounds for refusing to process an application and for denying or revoking
any permit or approval sought or issued with respect to the land or development
to which the unpaid fee or deposit relates.
      6.   RESERVED.
      7.   Minimum Application Data Requirements.
         a.   All Applications. Every application submitted pursuant to this
UDO will contain at least the following information:
            (1)   The owner’s name, email, telephone number and address and the
owner’s signed consent to the filing of the application.
            (2)   The applicant’s name, email, telephone number and address, if
different than the owner, and his interest in the subject property.
            (3)   The names, addresses, emails and telephone numbers of all
professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with respect to the
application.
            (4)   The name and address and the nature and extent of the
interest, as defined in Section
2.108 of the Municipal Code of Wood Dale, as amended, of any officer or
employee of the City in the owner, the applicant or the subject property.
            (5)   The address and legal description of the property.
            (6)   A description or graphic representation of the proposal for
which approval is being sought and of the existing zoning classification, use
and development of the property. The scope and detail of the description will
be appropriate to the subject matter of the application, with special emphasis
on those matters likely to be affected or impacted by the approval being sought
in the application.
            (7)   In the case of any application being filed less than two
years after the denial of an application seeking essentially the same relief,
the statement required by Section
17.202.D.2. of this Article.
            (8)   Proof of control or ownership, in the case of site-specific
applications.
         b.   Applications for Zoning Certificates. Every application filed
pursuant to Section
17.203 of this Article will, in addition to the data and information required
pursuant to Section
17.202.C.7.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   A description or graphic representation of any development or
construction that will occur or any use that will be established or maintained
if the requested relief is granted.
            (2)   A table showing the following, if applicable:
               (A)   The total lot area of the subject property, in acres and
in square feet;
               (B)   The total existing and proposed lot area, expressed in
acres, in square feet and as a percent of the total development area, devoted
to residential uses, by type of structure, commercial uses, office uses,
industrial uses and institutional uses, open space, rights-of-way, streets, and
off-street parking and loading areas; and
            (3)   The existing and proposed:
               (A)   Number of dwelling units, by number of bedrooms and
dwelling unit gross floor area; and
               (B)   Gross and net floor area devoted to residential uses,
commercial uses, office uses, industrial uses, institutional uses and
recreational uses.
            (4)   A table listing all bulk, space and yard requirements, all
parking requirements, and all loading requirements applicable to any proposed
development or construction and showing the compliance of such proposed
development or construction with each such requirement. Where any lack of
compliance is shown, the reason therefore must be stated and an explanation of
the City’s authority, if any, to approve the application despite such lack of
compliance must be set forth.
            (5)   The certificate of a registered architect or civil engineer
licensed by the State of Illinois, or of an owner-designer, that any proposed
use, construction or development complies with all the provisions of this UDO
and other City ordinances or complies with such provisions except in the manner
and to the extent specifically set forth in said certificate.
         c.   Application for Code Interpretations. Every application filed
pursuant to Section
17.204.A. of this Article will, in addition to the data and information
required pursuant to Section
17.202.C.7.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   The specific provision or provisions of this UDO for which an
interpretation is sought.
            (2)   The facts of the specific situation giving rise to the
request for an interpretation.
            (3)   The precise interpretation claimed by the applicant to be
correct.
            (4)   Where a use interpretation is sought, the use permitted
pursuant to the present zoning classification of the subject property that is
claimed by the applicant to include, or to be most similar to, the proposed
use.
            (5)   Where a use interpretation is sought, documents, statements
and other evidence demonstrating that the proposed use will comply with all use
limitations established for the district in which it is proposed to be located.
         d.   Applications for Appeals. Every application filed pursuant to
Section
17.204.B. of this UDO will, in addition to the date and information required
pursuant to Section
17.202.C.7.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   The specific order, decision or determination of failure to
act from which an appeal is sought.
            (2)   The facts of the specific situation giving rise to the
original order, decision, determination or failure to act and to the appeal
therefrom.
            (3)   The precise relief sought.
            (4)   A statement of the applicant’s position as to alleged errors
in the order, decision, determination or failure to act being appealed and as
to why the relief sought is justified and proper.
         e.   Applications for Variations. Every application filed pursuant to
Section
17.204.C. of this Article will, in addition to the data and information
required pursuant to Section
17.202.C.7.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   The specific feature or features of the proposed use,
construction or development that require a variation.
            (2)   The specific provision of this UDO from which a variation is
sought and the precise variation therefrom being sought.
            (3)   A statement of the characteristics of the subject property
that prevent compliance with the said provisions of this UDO.
            (4)   A statement of the minimum variation of the provisions of
this UDO that would be necessary to permit the proposed use, construction or
development.
            (5)   A statement of how the variation sought would satisfy the
standards set forth in Section
17.204.C.6. of this Article.
            (6)   An accurate, to scale and full size survey, certified by a
registered land surveyor, showing existing lot lines and dimensions as well as
lot area, all easements, all public and private rights-of-way and all streets
across and adjacent to the subject property.
            (7)   A statement concerning the conformity or lack of conformity
of the approval being requested to The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use
Plan and Official Map. Where the approval being requested does not conform to
the Comprehensive Land Use Plan or the Official Map, reasons justifying the
approval despite such lack of conformity will be stated.
         f.   Applications for Administrative Variations. Every application
filed pursuant to Section
17.204.D. of this Article requesting an administrative variation, will, in
addition to the data and information required pursuant to Section
17.202.C.7.a. provide the following information:
            (1)   Plat of survey with legal description;
            (2)    Site plan and architectural renderings, as appropriate;
            (3)   Statements as required in Sections
17.202.C.7.e.(3), (4), (5), and (7);
            (4)   Notarized letters or survey from all adjoining property
owners stating the following:
               (A)   Name of the applicant seeking the variation.
               (B)   Legal description and address of the subject property.
               (C)   Name and address of adjoining property owners.
               (D)   Statement of variation request.
               (E)   Statement that the adjoining property owner does
understand the request and does not object to the variation request.
         g.   Applications for The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use
Plan or UDO Text Amendments. Every application filed pursuant to Section
17.202.A.7. or applications filed pursuant to Section
17.205.A. of this Article requesting an amendment to the text of either The
City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan or this UDO will, in addition to
the data and information required pursuant to Section
17.202.C.7.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   The exact wording of the proposed text amendment.
            (2)   A statement of the need and justification for the proposed
text amendment.
            (3)   If applicable, a survey, certified by a registered land
surveyor, showing existing lot lines and dimensions as well as lot area, all
easements, all public and private rights-of-way and all streets across and
adjacent to the subject property.
            (4)   A statement concerning the conformity or lack of conformity
of the approval being requested to The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use
Plan and Official Map. Where the approval being requested does not conform to
The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan or the Official Map, reasons
justifying the approval despite such lack of conformity will be stated.
         h.   Applications for Special Use Permits. Every application filed
pursuant to Section
17.205.B. of this Article will, in addition to the data and information
required pursuant to
17.202.C.7.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   A written statement of the need for the special permit.
            (2)   An accurate, to scale and full size survey, certified by a
registered land surveyor, showing existing lot lines and dimensions as well as
lot area, all easements, all public and private rights-of-way and all streets
across and adjacent to the subject property.
            (3)   A statement concerning the conformity or lack of conformity
of the approval being requested to The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use
Plan and Official Map. Where the approval being requested does not conform to
The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan or the Official Map, reasons
justifying the approval despite such lack of conformity will be stated.
            (4)   An application for site plan approval pursuant to Section
17.206d of this Article.
         i.   Applications for The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use
Plan Map or Zoning Map Amendments. Every application filed pursuant to Section
17.202.A.7. and Section
17.205.A. or formal applications filed requesting an amendment to The City of
Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan Map or the Zoning Map will, in addition
to the data and information required pursuant to Section
17.202.C.7.a., provide a statement of the need and justification for the
proposed Plan Map or Zoning Map amendment. The statement will address at least
the following factors:
            (1)   The existing uses and zoning classifications of properties in
the vicinity of the subject property.
            (2)   The trend of development in the vicinity of the subject
property, including changes, if any, in such trend since the subject property
was placed in its present plan designation or zoning classification.
            (3)   The extent to which the value of the subject property is
diminished by the existing plan designation or zoning classification applicable
to it.
            (4)   The extent to which such diminution in value is offset by an
increase in the public health, safety and welfare.
            (5)   The extent, if any, to which the use and enjoyment of
adjacent properties would be affected by the proposed amendment.
            (6)   The extent, if any, to which the value of adjacent properties
would be affected by the proposed amendment.
            (7)   The extent, if any, to which the future orderly development
of adjacent properties would be affected by the proposed amendment.
            (8)   The suitability of the subject property for uses permitted or
permissible under its present plan designation and zoning classification.
            (9)   The availability of adequate ingress to and egress from the
subject property and the extent to which traffic conditions in the immediate
vicinity of the subject property would be affected by the proposed amendment.
            (10)   The availability of adequate utilities and essential public
services to the subject property to accommodate the uses permitted or
permissible under its present plan designation and zoning classification.
            (11)   The length of time, if any, that the subject property has
been vacant, considered in the context of the pace of development in the
vicinity of the subject property.
            (12)   The community need for the proposed map amendment and for
the uses and development it would allow.
            (13)   A survey, certified by a registered land surveyor, showing
existing lot lines and dimensions as well as lot area, all easements, all
public and private rights-of-way and all streets across and adjacent to the
subject property.
         j.   Applications for Planned Unit Development Concept Plan Approval.
Every application filed pursuant to Section
17.205.C. of this Article will, in addition to the data and information
required pursuant to Section
17.202.C.7.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   A development name unique to the Wood Dale area for
identification purposes.
            (2)   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the
subject property to effectuate the proposed planned unit development, including
a statement of all legal, beneficial, tenancy and contractual interests held in
or affecting the subject property, and a recent commitment for title insurance
or ownership search certificate.
            (3)   A map depicting municipal and special district boundaries
where adjacent to or within the subject property.
            (4)   A written statement addressing the following matters:
               (A)   A general description of the proposed planned unit
development, the planning objectives to be achieved by it, including the
rationales and assumptions of the applicant supporting the proposed planned
unit development, and the market it is intended to serve.
               (B)   How the proposed planned unit development is to be
designed, arranged and operated so as not to adversely affect the development
and use of neighboring property in accordance with applicable regulations of
this UDO.
            (5)   Schematic, soft-line drawings of the proposed planned unit
development concept, including public or private rights-of-way on or adjacent
to the subject property, the proposed dimensions and locations of vehicular and
pedestrian circulation and parking elements, public and private open space, and
residential, commercial, office, industrial and other land uses, and the
general locations of and purpose of all easements.
            (6)   A Tax Impact Study indicating the possible tax consequences
the proposed planned unit development will have upon the City and other
affected taxing bodies.
            (7)   A Traffic and Transit Impact Study including a list of new
street construction and traffic control improvements necessary to accommodate
the estimated increase in traffic and traffic related problems occasioned by
the proposed development and a statement of the applicant’s proposals for
providing those needed improvements.
            (8)   A preliminary engineering study showing the location and
adequacy of existing and proposed sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water
distribution systems.
            (9)   A written statement identifying existing natural and
environmental resources and features on the subject property, including its
topography, vegetation, soils, geology, and scenic view, and the impact of the
proposed planned unit development on such resources and features, including
proposals to preserve or protect such resources and features.
            (10)   Schematic, soft-line architectural elevations indicating the
general style of architecture and typical building materials.
            (11)   A statement of the applicant’s intent with respect to the
ownership, sale and leasing of the various completed units, structures, spaces
and areas within the proposed planned unit development.
            (12)   A development schedule for each and every stage of
construction stating the approximate beginning and completion date, proportion
of total public or common open space to be provided for each use and with each
development stage.
            (13)   A detailed description of the financial assurances to be
presented to guarantee completion of all public improvements and private open
space to be provided in connection with the proposed planned unit development.
            (14)   Evidence of the financing plan the applicant proposes to use
to complete the proposed planned unit development. The applicant’s prior
success in completing projects of similar scope may be offered in support of
this requirement.
            (15)   A preliminary plat of subdivision if required pursuant to
the Section
17.802 of this UDO.
         k.   Application for Planned Unit Development Final Plan Approval.
Every application filed pursuant to Section
17.205.C.4.c. of this Article will, in addition to the data and information
required pursuant to Section
17.202.C.7.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   The date on which Development Concept Plan approvals were
granted.
            (2)   A statement and plan of the proposed treatment of the
perimeter of the proposed planned unit development, including materials and
techniques to be used.
            (3)   When the proposed planned unit development, or stage thereof,
includes provision for public or common open space, a statement describing the
provision made for the dedication or care and maintenance of such open space.
If it is proposed that such open space be owned or maintained by any entity
other than a governmental authority, copies of the proposed articles of
incorporation and by-laws of such entity will be submitted. When the property
is to be dedicated, a draft of the instrument of dedication will be submitted.
            (4)   Copies of any restrictive covenants to be recorded with
respect to property included in the Final Plan.
            (5)   A statement summarizing all changes that have been made, or
have occurred, in any document, plan, data or information previously submitted,
together with a revised copy of any such documents, plan or data.
            (6)   A final plat of subdivision if required pursuant to this UDO.
            (7)   All engineering data and drawings required in connection with
an application for final subdivision approval under this UDO.
            (8)   All certificates, seals and signatures required for the
dedication of land and recordation of documents.
            (9)   Hard line elevations and scaled floor plans.
            (10)   Proof from appropriate governmental agencies that all taxes
on the subject property have been paid and that all special assessments, taxes,
and other levies against the subject property or any part thereof have been
paid in full.
         l.   Applications for Site Plan Approval. Whenever an application
filed pursuant to any provision of this UDO involves any use, construction or
development requiring the submission of a site plan pursuant to Section
17.206 of this Article, a site plan illustrating the proposed use, construction
or development and providing at least the following data and information, on
one or more sheets, will be submitted as part of the application:
            (1)   A graphic rendering of the existing conditions, which
depicts:
               (A)   All significant natural, topographical and physical
features of the subject property including topographical contours at one foot
intervals;
               (B)   The location and extent of tree cover including single
trees in excess of six inches in diameter at breast height (dbh);
               (C)   The location and extent of water bodies and courses,
wetlands, marshes and special flood hazard areas and floodways on or within 100
feet of the subject property;
               (D)   Existing drainage structures and patterns; and
               (E)   Soil conditions as they affect development.
            (2)   The location, use, size and height in stories and feet of
structures and other land uses on properties within 250 feet of the subject
property.
            (3)   For areas within any required yard or setback, any proposed
regarding of the subject property.
            (4)   Data concerning proposed structures and existing structures
that will remain, including:
               (A)   Location, size, use and arrangement, including height in
stories and feet;
               (B)   Where relevant, floor area ratio, gross floor area and net
floor area;
               (C)   Where relevant, number and size of dwelling units, by
dwelling unit type and number of bedrooms;
               (D)   Building coverage and lot coverage; and
               (E)   Description of the calculation method utilized in
computing all required statistics shown.
            (5)   Minimum yard and setback dimensions and, where relevant,
relation of yard and setback dimensions to the height, width and depth of any
structure.
            (6)   A vehicular and pedestrian circulation plan showing the
location, dimensions, gradient and number of all vehicular and pedestrian
circulation elements including rights-of-way and streets; driveway entrances,
curbs and curb cuts; parking spaces, loading spaces and circulation aisles;
sidewalks, walkways and pathways; and total lot coverage of all circulation
elements divided as between vehicular and pedestrian ways.
            (7)   All existing and proposed surface and sub-surface drainage
and retention and detention facilities and existing and proposed water, sewer,
gas, electric, telephone and cable communications lines and easements and all
other utility facilities.
            (8)   Location, size and arrangements of all outdoor signs and
lighting.
            (9)   Location and height of fences or screen plantings and the
type or kind of building materials or plantings to be used for fencing or
screening.
            (10)   Location, designation and total area of all usable open
space.
            (11)   A detailed landscaping plan, showing location, size and
species of all trees, shrubs and other plant material.
            (12)   A traffic study, if required by the Development
Administrator or the Community Development Commission.
            (13)   An erosion control plan for the period during which
construction will be taking place, if required by the Development Administrator
or the Community Development Commission.
            (14)   Hard line elevations and floor plans.
         m.   Applications for Appeal from Denial of Site Plan Approval. Every
application filed pursuant to Section
17.206.D.2. will, in addition to the data and information required pursuant to
Section
17.202.C.7.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   A copy of the original application for site plan approval.
            (2)   A statement of the applicant’s position as the alleged errors
in the Development Administrator’s denial of site plan approval and as to why
approval of the site plan is justified and proper.
      8.   Special Data Requests. In addition to the data and information
required pursuant to Section
17.202.C.7., every applicant will submit any other and additional data,
information or documentation as the Development Administrator or the Community
Development Commission may deem necessary or appropriate to a full and proper
consideration and disposition of the particular application.
      9.   Concurrent Applications. Where a proposed use or development
requires more than one approval pursuant to this UDO, applications for all
approvals may be filed concurrently notwithstanding the fact that approval of
one application may be a precondition to approval of other applications. Such
applications may, in the discretion of the official, officials, body or bodies
charged with review of such applications be processed together; provided,
however, that no application will be approved unless all applications that are
a precondition to its approval have first been approved.
      10.   Withdrawal of Application. An applicant may withdraw an application
at any time prior to a final decision having been rendered with respect
thereto; provided that the applicant will have paid all applicable application
fees pursuant to Section
17.202.C.4. and made the request to withdraw in writing. A withdrawal will be
without prejudice to the applicant’s right to refile such application, but any
refiling will be treated as an entirely new filing and will be subject to the
procedures and fees of this UDO in the same manner as any other new
application.
      11.   Administrative Discretion. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in this Article, the Development Administrator or the Community Development
Commission may waive any application requirements otherwise set forth in this
Section
17.202.C.7. where the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
Development Administrator or Community Development Commission before which its
application is pending that the information required is not relevant to or
necessary for the determination of the application submitted.
   D.   Successive Applications.
      1.   Second Applications Without New Grounds Barred. Whenever any
application filed pursuant to this UDO has been finally denied on its merits
and all appeals with the City have been exhausted, a second application,
seeking essentially the same relief, whether or not in the same form or on the
same theory, will not be brought within one year after the date upon the last
City action on the application, unless, in the opinion of the Development
Administrator or the Community Development Commission substantial new evidence
is available or a mistake of law or fact significantly affected the prior
denial.
      2.   New Grounds to be Stated. Any second application will include a
detailed statement of the grounds justifying consideration of the application.
      3.   Exception. Whether or not new grounds are stated, any second
application filed more than two years after the final denial of a prior
application will be heard on the merits as though no prior application had been
filed. The applicant will, however, be required to place in the record all
evidence available concerning changes of conditions or new facts that have
developed since the denial of the first application. In the absence of such
evidence it will be presumed that no new facts exist to support the new
petition that did not exist at the time of the denial of the first application.
   E.   Public Hearings and Meetings.
         1.    Setting Hearing or Meeting; Time Limitation. When the provisions
of this UDO require a public hearing or meeting in connection with any
application filed pursuant to this UDO, the Community Development Commission
will, upon receipt of a properly completed application, fix a reasonable time
and place for such hearing or meeting; provided, however, that such hearing or
meeting will be commenced no later than 60 days, and will be concluded no later
than 120 days, following the receipt of the subject application unless the
applicant agrees to an extension or unless the hearing or meeting agenda of the
body is completely committed during that time.
      2.   Notice.
         a.   Notice to be Given. Notice of public hearings and meetings set
pursuant to Section
17.202.E.1. of this Section will be given by the Development Administrator or
the applicant, as the case may be, in the form and manner and to the person
herein specified.
         b.   Notice Procedures.
            (1)   All Hearings and Meetings. Notice of every hearing or meeting
set pursuant to Section
17.202.E.1. of this Section will be given by the Development Administrator:
               1.   By first class mail, electronic mail or personal delivery
to the applicant and, if a specific parcel is the subject of the application,
to the owner of the subject property.
               2.   By first class mail or electronic mail to any newspaper or
person that will have filed a written request, accompanied by an annual fee as
established from time to time by the Development Administrator to cover postage
and handling, for notice of all hearings or meetings held pursuant to this UDO.
Such written request will automatically expire on December 31 of the year in
which it is made unless a written request for renewal, accompanied by the
annual fee, is submitted prior to such date.
               3.   By first class mail, electronic mail or personal delivery
or interdepartmental delivery to affected City Council, Commissions,
Departments and Officials.
            (2)   Delivery of Notice. Notice by mail as herein required, will
be mailed no less than five days in advance of the hearing or meeting date by
regular first class United States Mail.
         c.   Required Public Notices: Prior to holding a public hearing, the
following notices shall be required:
            (1)   Notice by Newspaper Publication. The Development
Administrator will cause a notice to be published in a newspaper published in,
or of general circulation within, the City at least once no less than fifteen
(15) days, nor more than thirty (30) days, in advance of the hearing date. The
newspaper notice shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
               1.   The street address, property index number(s), and street
intersection location description of the property that is the subject of the
application;
               2.   A brief statement of the nature of the relief being
requested;
               3.   The name and address of the applicant;
               4.   The name and address of the legal and beneficial owner of
the property, if any, that is the subject of the application.
            (2)   Notice by Sign. If a specific property is the subject of the
application, the Development Administrator or applicant will post the subject
property with a ground sign of approximately nine (9) square feet of gross
surface area containing the legibly written notice. The sign shall be placed no
less than fifteen (15) days, nor more than thirty (30) days, in advance of the
hearing date. The sign will be located on the subject property so as to be
visible from at least one (1) right-of-way abutting the subject property. The
Development Administrator or applicant will remove the sign within three (3)
days after the hearing is closed.
            (3)   Notice by Mail. The Development Administrator shall make best
efforts, where applicable, to provide notice mailed via first class mail to all
the property owners within two hundred and fifty feet (250') of the specific
property. The notice shall be mailed no less than fifteen (15) days, nor more
than thirty (30) days, in advance of the hearing date. Any irregularity or
mistake concerning mailed notice shall not otherwise affect the validity of any
legislative action. The mailed notice shall contain, at a minimum, the
following information:
               1.   The street address, property index number(s), and street
intersection location description of the property that is the subject of the
application;
               2.   A brief statement of the nature of the relief being
requested;
               3.   The name and address of the applicant;
               4.   The name and address of the legal and beneficial owner of
the property, if any, that is the subject of the application.
         d.    Report to Hearing Body. At the hearing, the Development
Administrator or applicant will present to the Community Development Commission
an affidavit, certification or other evidence satisfactory to the Community
Development Commission, demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the Community
Development Commission, that the applicable notice requirements of this
Subparagraph have been satisfied.
         e.   Hearing on Renewal of Special Use Permits. In addition to notice
as required by Section
17.202.E.2.a. and Section
17.202.E.2.b. above, notice of a hearing for the renewal of a special permit
pursuant to Section 17.205.B.11. of this Article will be given in accordance
with Section
17.202.E.2.d.
         f.   Hearing on The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan. In
addition to notice as required by Section
17.202.E.2.a. and Section
17.202.E.2.b. above, notice of every hearing set pursuant to Section
17.202.E.1. hereof in connection with the adoption of The City of Wood Dale
Comprehensive Land Use Plan will be given by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in Wood Dale County at least fifteen (15) days before such
hearing.
         g.   Hearing on Zoning Map Amendments. In addition to notice as
required by Section
17.202.E.2.a. and Section
17.202.E.2.b., notice of every hearing set pursuant to Section
17.202.E.1. hereof in connection with an application for an amendment to the
Zoning Map will be pursuant to Section
17.202.E.2.d.; provided, however, that the requirements set forth in Section
17.202.E.2.d.(4) will not apply when the City is the applicant and none of the
property that is the subject of the application is owned by the City.
      3.   Referral to Community Development Commission and Departments for
Hearings and Meetings Regarding Appeals, Variations, Amendments, Special Use
Permit and Planned Unit Development.
         a.   Development Administrator to Refer Applications. The Development
Administrator will, not later than the time set pursuant to Section
17.202.E.2.d. for giving public notice, refer every application for an appeal
pursuant to Section
17.204.B. of this Article, for a variation pursuant to Section
17.204.C. of this Article, for an amendment pursuant to Section
17.205.A. of this Article, for a special use permit pursuant to Section
17.205.B. of this Article, and for a planned unit development pursuant to
Section
17.205.C. of this Article to all relevant City departments with review
authority over any application.
         b.   Review and Comments. Each department to which an application is
referred pursuant to this Subsection
17.202.E.3. will review the application and submit its comments to the
Development Administrator and Community Development Commission.
      The comments will, whenever possible, be submitted at least two business
days prior to the date set for the hearing and will be made available to any
person on request prior to the hearing.
      4.   Conduct of Hearings. The Community Development Commission, in
accordance with the authority set forth in Section 11-13-22 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-13-22, may adopt such rules of procedure as
necessary and appropriate to govern any public hearing required under this
Article. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-24-012, 4-18-2024)
Sec. 17.203. Zoning Certificates.
   A.   Authority. The Development Administrator will have authority to issue
Zoning Certificates, but only in accordance with the provisions of this
Section.
   B.   Purpose. The Zoning Certificate is intended to two general purposes:
      1.   A procedure for reviewing plans for conformance with this UDO and a
means for evidencing conformance; and
      2.   an adjunct to, filed prior to or with, all other applications filed
pursuant to this UDO with respect to a specific use or development proposal.
      3.   When a Zoning Certificate is filed, it serves as a vehicle for
routine plan review by the Development Administrator prior to consideration of
special requests by other officials, departments or the Community Development
Commission, thus avoiding needless special reviews of defective plans.
   C.   Certificate Required. Except where expressly waived by another
provision of this UDO, unless a Zoning Certificate will have first been
obtained from the Development Administrator:
      1.   The construction, reconstruction, remodeling, alteration or moving
of any structure will not be commenced;
      2.   The grading, excavation or improvement of land preliminary to any
construction on or use of such land will not be commenced; and
      3.   Building or other permits pertaining to the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling, alteration or moving of any structure or the use of
any land or structure will not be issued by the City.
      4.   In any case where a Zoning Certificate is not required under this
UDO, the Development Administrator will, upon written request, issue a
certificate of such fact.
   D.   Relation to Other Applications. No application for a zoning variation,
application for a special permit, application for an amendment or application
for approval of a development Concept Plan will be processed unless an
application for a Zoning Certificate will first have been received, processed
and approved, or denied solely on one or more grounds that form the basis for
the application. It is the intent of this Section 17.203 that no application
filed pursuant to this Article with respect to a specific use or development
proposal will be processed until the Development Administrator is satisfied
that the proposed use or development complies with the provisions of this UDO
in all respects except those within the scope of such application.
   E.   Procedure.
      1.   Application. Applications for Zoning Certificates will be filed in
accordance with the requirements of Section
17.202.C.7.b. of this Article.
      2.   Action on Application. Within ten (10) days following receipt of a
completed application for a Certificate of Zoning Compliance, the Development
Administrator will cause the application and related submissions to be reviewed
for compliance with this UDO and will inform the applicant whether the
application has been granted or denied.
In any case where an application is granted, the Development Administrator will
issue a Certificate of Zoning Compliance that will read on its face:
THIS CERTIFICATE DOES NOT SIGNIFY BUILDING CODE REVIEW OR APPROVAL AND IS NOT
AUTHORIZATION TO UNDERTAKE ANY WORK WITHOUT SUCH REVIEW AND APPROVAL WHERE
EITHER IS REQUIRED.
BEFORE ANY STRUCTURE TO WHICH THIS CERTIFICATE IS APPLICABLE MAY BE OCCUPIED OR
USED FOR ANY PURPOSE, A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY MUST BE OBTAINED.
In any case where an application is denied, the Development Administrator will
state specific reasons therefor and will cite the specific provisions of this
UDO upon which such denial is based. If relief from such demand would be
available pursuant to a companion application filed in connection with the
application for a Certificate of Zoning Compliance, the Development
Administrator will inform the applicant and will promptly process such
companion application. If the application is approved, the Development
Administrator will issue the requested Certificate of Zoning Compliance in
accordance with the terms and conditions of such approval.
If relief from the Development Administrator’s denial of a Certificate of
Zoning Compliance would be available by variation, special permit or site plan
review, but no application therefor has been filed, the Development
Administrator will so state and refer the applicant to the appropriate
provisions of this UDO.
      3.   Contents of Certificate. Each Certificate of Zoning Compliance
issued pursuant to this Section 17.203 will state the specific use of the
subject property for which it is issued; identify the specific plans; if any,
pursuant to which it is issued; and set forth any conditions imposed in
connection with any approval granted pursuant to this UDO.
      4.   Filing of Certificates. Every Certificate issued pursuant to this
Section will be kept on file with the Development Administrator and will be a
public record open to inspection in accordance with the provisions of the
Freedom of Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq., as amended.
   F.   Effect of Issuance of Certificate of Zoning Compliance. The issuance of
a Certificate of Zoning Compliance will not authorize the establishment,
expansion or extension of any use nor the development, construction,
relocation, alteration or moving of building or structure, but will merely
authorize the preparation, filing and processing of applications for any
additional permits and approvals that may be required by the codes and
ordinances of the City, including, but not limited to, a Building Permit, a
Certificate of Occupancy and Subdivision Approval.
   G.   Limitations on Certificates. Subject to an extension of time granted by
the Development Administrator pursuant to Section
17.201.A.12. of this Article, a Certificate of Zoning Compliance will become
null and void six months after the date on which it was issued unless within
such period construction, reconstruction, remodeling, alteration or moving of a
structure is commenced or a use is commenced.
   H.   Void Certificates. Any Certificate of Zoning Compliance issued in
violation of the provisions of this UDO, whether intentionally, negligently or
innocently, will be void and confer no rights whatsoever. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-
2022)
Sec. 17.204. Interpretations, Appeal and Variations.
   A.   Interpretations.
      1.   Authority. The Development Administrator may, subject to the
procedures, standards and limitations of this Section, render interpretations,
including use interpretations, of the provisions of this UDO and of any rule or
regulation issued pursuant to it.
      2.   Purpose. The interpretation authority established by this Section is
intended to recognize that the provisions of this UDO though detailed and
lengthy, cannot possibly address every specific situation to which they may
have to be applied. Many such situations can, however, be readily addressed by
an interpretation of the specific provisions of this UDO in light of the
general and specific purposes for which those provisions have been enacted.
Because the interpretation authority of this UDO is an administrative rather
than a legislative authority, it is not intended to add to or change the
essential content of this UDO but, rather, it is intended only to allow
authoritative application of that content to specific cases.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Interpretations. Applications for
interpretations may be filed by any person having an interest in the
circumstances giving rise to the need for an interpretation; provided, however,
that interpretations will not be sought by any person based solely on
hypothetical facts or where the interpretation would have no effect other than
as an advisory opinion.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   Application. Applications for interpretations of this UDO will be
filed in accordance with the requirements of Section
17.202.C.7.c. of this Article.
         b.   Action on Application.
            (1)   Within 35 days following the receipt of a properly completed
application for interpretation, the Development Administrator will inform the
applicant in writing of his interpretation, stating the specific precedent,
reasons and analysis upon which the determination is based.
            (2)   The failure of the Development Administrator to act within 35
days, or such further time to which the applicant can agree, will be deemed to
be a decision denying the application rendered on the day following the 35 day
period.
         c.   Appeal. Appeals from interpretations rendered by the Development
Administrator may be taken to the Community Development Commission as provided
in Section
17.202.C.7.d. of this Article.
      5.   Standards for Use Interpretations. The following standards govern
the Development Administrator and the Community Development Commission on
appeals from the Development Administrator, in issuing use interpretations:
         a.   No use interpretation will be given with respect to any
Residential District.
         b.   Any use defined in Section 17.103 of this UDO will be strictly
interpreted as therein defined.
         c.   No use interpretation will permit a use not already listed as a
permitted or special permit use in the district proposed for that use.
         d.   No use interpretation will permit any use in any district unless
evidence is presented that demonstrates that it will comply with each use
limitation established for that particular district.
         e.   No use interpretation will permit any use in a particular
district unless such use is substantially similar to other uses permitted in
such district.
         f.   If the proposed use is most similar to a use permitted only as a
special permit use in the district in which it is proposed to be located, then
any use interpretation permitting such use will be conditioned on the issuance
of a special permit for such use pursuant to Section
17.205.B of this Article.
         g.   No use interpretation will permit the establishment of any use
that would be inconsistent with the statement of purpose of the district in
question.
      6.   Effect of Favorable Use Interpretation. No use interpretation
finding a particular use to be permitted or specially permitted in a particular
district will authorize the establishment of that use nor the development,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or moving of any building or structure
but will merely authorize the preparation, filing and processing of
applications for any permits and approvals that may be required by the codes
and ordinances of the City, including, but not limited to, a Special Permit, a
Certificate of Zoning Compliance, a Building Permit, a Certificate of
Occupancy, Subdivision Approval and Site Plan Approval.
      7.   Limitations on Favorable Use Interpretations.
         a.   Subject to an extension of time granted by the Development
Administrator pursuant to Section
17.201.A.12. of this Article, no use interpretation finding a particular use to
be permitted or specially permitted in a particular district will be valid for
a period longer than six months from the date of issue unless a building permit
is issued, and construction is actually begun within that period and is
diligently pursued to completion, or a Certificate of Occupancy is obtained and
a use commenced within that period.
         b.   A use interpretation finding a particular use to be permitted or
specially permitted in a particular district will be deemed to authorize only
the particular use for which it was issued, and such permit will not be deemed
to authorize any claimed similar use for which a separate use interpretation
has not been issued. The permit will automatically expire and cease to be of
any force or effect if the particular use for which it was issued will, for any
reason, be discontinued for a period of six consecutive months or more.
   B.   Appeals.
      1.   Authority. Except as provided in Section
17.206.D.1.d. of this Article with regard to site plan review appeals, the
Community Development Commission will hear and decide appeals from, and review
orders, decisions, determinations, or the failure to act, of the Development
Administrator acting pursuant to his authority and duties under this UDO and to
that end the Community Development Commission will have the same powers and be
subject to the same standards and limitations as the Development Administrator
with respect to any order, decision or determination being appealed. When
considering and acting on appeals, the Community Development Commission will be
considered a Zoning Board of Appeals, and possess the statutory powers and
limitations set forth in Section 11-13-3 and Section 11-13-12 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3 and 65 ILCS 5/11-13-12, as amended.
      2.   Purpose. The appeal procedure is provided as a safeguard against
arbitrary, ill-considered or erroneous administrative decisions. It is intended
to avoid the need for resort to legal action by providing a local procedure for
the review and correction of administrative errors. It is not, however,
intended as a means to subvert the clear purposes, intent or meaning of this
UDO or the rightful authority of the Development Administrator to enforce this
UDO. To these ends, the Community Development Commission will give all proper
deference to the spirit and language of this UDO and to the reasonable
interpretations of those charged with its administration.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Appeal. An application for appeal to the
Community Development Commission may be filed by any person aggrieved or
adversely affected by an order, decision, determination or failure to act of
the Development Administrator acting pursuant to his authority and duties under
this UDO.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   Application. An application for appeal to the Community
Development Commission will be filed not later than 45 days following the
action being appealed and in accordance with the requirements of Section
17.202.C.7.d. of this Article.
         b.   Action by Development Administrator. Upon receipt of a properly
completed application for an appeal, the Development Administrator will
transmit to the Community Development Commission the application together with
all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
         c.   Public Hearing. A public hearing will be set, noticed and
conducted by the Community Development Commission in accordance with Section
17.202.E. of this Article.
         d.   Action by Community Development Commission.
            (1)   Within thirty (30) days following the close of the public
hearing the Community Development Commission will render a decision on the
appeal in the manner and form specified in Section
17.201.C.3. of this Article. The decision may reverse, affirm or modify, in
whole or in part, the action appealed from and may include such order or
determination as, in the opinion of the Community Development Commission, is
proper to be made in the premises.
            (2)   The failure of the Community Development Commission to act
within thirty (30) days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree,
will be deemed to be a decision denying the appeal.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2839.png]
      5.   Stay of Proceedings. An application for appeal properly filed
pursuant to Subsection
17.204.B.4.a. above will stay all proceedings in the furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Development Administrator certifies to the Community
Development Commission after the application for appeal has been filed with the
Development Administrator that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a
stay would, in the Development Administrator’s opinion, cause imminent peril to
life or property, in which case the proceedings will not be stayed other than
by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Community Development
Commission or by the Circuit Court on application, upon reasonable written
notice to the Development Administrator and on due cause shown.
      6.   Right to Grant Variation in Deciding Appeals. In any case where the
application for appeal is accompanied by an application for variation in
accordance with Section
17.202.C.7.e. of this Article, the Community Development Commission will have
the authority to grant, as part of the relief, a variation but only in strict
compliance with each provision of Section
17.204.C.
      7.   Conditions and Limitations on Rights Granted by Appeal. In any case
where this UDO imposes conditions and limitations upon any right, any such
right granted by the Community Development Commission on appeal will be subject
to such conditions and limitations in the same manner and to the same extent as
if secured without the necessity of an appeal.
   C.   Variations.
      1.   Authority. The City Council will have the authority to grant
variations from the provisions of this UDO, by ordinance duly adopted, and only
in compliance with the procedures set forth in this Section
17.204.C. of this Section and in those specific instances enumerated in
Subsection
17.204.C.5. of this Section and then only in accordance with each of the
standards enumerated in Section
17.204.C.6. of this Section.
      2.   Purpose. The variation procedure is intended to provide a narrowly
circumscribed means by which relief may be granted from unforeseen particular
applications of this UDO that create practical difficulties or particular
hardships. When such difficulties or hardships are more appropriate for remedy,
if at all, pursuant to other provisions of this Article, the variation
procedure is inappropriate.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Variations. Applications for variations may
be filed by the owner of, or any person having a contractual interest in, the
subject property.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.      Application. Applications for variations will be filed in
accordance with the requirements of Section
17.202.C.7.e. of this Article.
         b.   Public Hearing. A public hearing will be set, noticed and
conducted by the Community Development Commission in accordance with Section
17.202.E. of this Article.
         c.   Action by Community Development Commission.
            (1)   Within 35 days following the close of the public hearing, the
Community Development Commission will render its recommendations granting or
denying the variation, in the manner and form specified by Section
17.201.C.3. of this Article.
            (2)   The failure of the Community Development Commission to act
within 35 days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, will be
deemed to be a decision to recommend denial of the variation.
            (3)   When considering and acting on variations, the Community
Development Commission will be considered a Zoning Board of Appeals, and
possess the statutory powers and limitations set forth in Section 11-13-3 and
Section 11-13-5 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3 and 65 ILCS
5/11-13-5, as amended.
         d.   Action by City Council.
            (1)   Within sixty (60) days following the receipt of the
recommendation of the Community Development Commission, or its fail to act as
above provided, the City Council will either deny the application or, by
ordinance duly adopted, will grant the variation, with or without modifications
and conditions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2841.png]
      5.   Authorized Variations.
         a.   Permitted Variations. Subject to the prohibitions set forth in
Section
17.204.C.5.b. below, and subject to the other provisions of this Section, the
Community Development Commission may only consider and recommend the following
variations:
            (1)   To vary the applicable lot area, lot width, and lot depth
requirements, subject to the following limitations:
               (A)   The minimum lot width and lot depth requirements shall not
be reduced more than fifty percent (50%).
               (B)   The minimum lot area for a single-family or two-family
dwelling shall not be reduced more than forty-five percent (45%).
               (C)   The minimum lot area per dwelling unit required for
multiple-family dwellings shall not be reduced so as to permit more dwelling
units than would be permitted by strict application of minimum lot area
requirements.
            (2)   To vary applicable bulk regulations, including maximum
height, lot coverage, and floor area ratio and minimum yard requirements.
            (3)   To vary applicable off street parking and off street loading
requirements.
            (4)   To vary regulations relating to restoration of damaged or
destroyed nonconforming structures.
            (5)   To vary the regulations relating to signs.
            (6)   To vary the regulations relating to fences.
            (7)   To vary the regulations relating to tree removal and
replacement.
         b.   Prohibited Variations. Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Section
17.204.C.5.b., no variation will be granted that:
            (1)   Is intended as a temporary measure only; or
            (2)   Is greater than the minimum variation necessary to relieve
the particular hardship or practical difficulty demonstrated by the applicant.
      6.   Standards for Variations.
         a.   General Standard. No variation will be granted pursuant to this
Section
17.204.C.6. unless the applicant will establish that carrying out the strict
letter of the provisions of this UDO would create a particular hardship or a
practical difficultly. Such a showing will require proof that the variation
being sought satisfies each of the standards set forth in this Subsection.
         b.   Unique Physical Condition. The subject property is exceptional as
compared to other lots subject to the same provision by reason of a unique
physical condition, including presence of an existing use, structure or sign,
whether conforming or nonconforming; irregular or substandard shape or size;
exceptional topographical features; or other extraordinary physical conditions
peculiar to and inherent in the subject property that amount to more than a
mere inconvenience to the owner and that relate to or arise out of the lot
rather than the personal situation of the current owner of the lot.
         c.   Not Self-Created. The aforesaid unique physical condition is not
the result of any action or inaction of the owner or his predecessors in title
and existed at the time of the enactment of the provisions from which a
variation is sought or was created by natural forces or was the result of
governmental action, other than the adoption of this UDO, for which no
compensation was paid.
         d.   Denied Substantial Rights. The carrying out of the strict letter
of the provision from which a variation is sought would deprive the owner of
the subject property of substantial rights commonly enjoyed by owners of other
lots subject to the same provision.
         e.   Not Merely Special Privilege. The alleged hardship or difficulty
is not merely the inability of the owner or occupant to enjoy some special
privilege or additional right not available to owners or occupants of other
lots subject to the same provision, nor merely an inability to make more money
from the sale of the subject property; provided, however, that where the
standards herein set out exist, the existence of an economic hardship will not
be a prerequisite to the grant of an authorized variation.
         f.   Code and Plan Purposes. The variation would not result in a use
or development of the subject property that would not be in harmony with the
general and specific purposes for which this UDO and the provision from which a
variation is sought were enacted or the general purpose and intent of The City
of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
         g.   Essential Character of the Area. The variation would not result
in a use or development on the subject property that:
            (1)   Would be materially detrimental to the public welfare or
materially injurious to the enjoyment, use, development value of property or
improvements permitted in the vicinity;
            (2)   Would materially impair an adequate supply of light and air
to the properties and improvements in the vicinity;
            (3)   Would substantially increase congestion in the public streets
due to traffic or parking;
            (4)   Would unduly increase the danger of flood or fire;
            (5)   Would unduly tax public utilities and facilities in the area;
or
            (6)   Would endanger the public health and safety.
            (7)   No Other Remedy. There is no means other than the requested
variation by which the alleged hardship or difficulty can be avoided or
remedied to a degree sufficient to permit a reasonable use of the subject
property.
      7.   Variation Less Than Requested. A variation less than or different
from that requested may be granted when the record supports the applicant’s
right to some relief but not to the relief requested.
      8.   Conditions on Variations. The Community Development Commission may
impose such specific conditions and limitations concerning use, construction,
character, location, landscaping, screening and other matters relating to the
purposes and objectives of this UDO upon the premises benefited by a variation
as may be necessary or appropriate to prevent or minimize adverse effects upon
other property and improvements in the vicinity of the subject property or upon
public facilities and services. Such conditions will be expressly set forth in
the resolution granting the variation. Violation of any such condition or
limitation will be a violation of this UDO and will constitute grounds for
revocation of the variation.
      9.   Affidavit of Compliance with Conditions; Fee. Whenever any variation
authorized pursuant to Section
17.204.C.5. is made subject to conditions and limitations to be met by the
applicant, the applicant will upon meeting such conditions file an affidavit
with the Development Administrator so stating. Such affidavit will be
accompanied by a nonrefundable fee, to be fixed in each case by the Development
Administrator, to recover the City’s actual direct cost of an inspection to
verify that such conditions and limitations have been met.
      10.   Effect of Grant of Variation. The grant of a variation will not
authorize the establishment or extension of any use nor the development,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or moving of any building or structure
but will merely authorize the preparation, filing and processing of
applications for any permits and approval that may be required by the codes and
ordinances of the City, including, but not limited to, a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance, a Building Permit, a Certificate of Occupancy, Subdivision Approval
and Site Plan Approval.
      11.   Limitations on Variations.
         a.   Subject to an extension of time granted by the Development
Administrator or City Council pursuant to Section
17.201.A.12. of this Article, no variation from the provisions of this UDO will
be valid for a period longer than 180 days, and no variation from the
provisions of this UDO that is granted concurrently with a special permit will
be valid for a period longer than one year, unless a building permit
application is submitted within that period and is diligently pursued to
completion or unless a Certificate of Occupancy is issued and a use is
commenced within that period. Variations granted pursuant to Section
17.204.C.5. of this Article will be valid for a period that is coterminous with
the period that the tentative subdivision plat is valid, and will be deemed
final variations that run with the land only after recordation of a duly
approved final subdivision plat.
         b.   A variation will be deemed to authorize only the particular
construction or development for which it was issued and will automatically
expire and cease to be of any force or effect if such construction or
development will be removed and not replaced within six months following such
removal.
   D.   Administrative Variations.
      1.   Authority. The Development Administrator will have the authority to
grant administrative variations from the provisions of this UDO pertaining to
(a) dimensional zoning relief related to setbacks and height and (b) off-street
parking requirements. Administrative variations will only be permitted where
the requested relief does not exceed a five percent (5%) reduction of the
required dimensional or parking regulation. Administrative variations will only
be granted by the Development Administrator in compliance with the procedures
set forth in this Section
17.204.D.
      2.   Purpose. The administrative variation procedure is intended to
provide a narrowly tailored and streamlined process to grant minimal variations
resulting from unforeseen particular applications of this UDO that create
practical difficulties or particular hardships. When such difficulties or
hardships are more appropriate for remedy, if at all, pursuant to other
provisions of this Article, the administrative variation procedure is
inappropriate.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Administrative Variations. Applications for
administrative variations may be filed by the owner of, or any person having a
contractual interest in, the subject property.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   Application. Applications for administrative variations will be
filed in accordance with the requirements of Section
17.202.C.7.f. of this Article.
         b.   Application Notification. Upon receipt of a complete application
conforming to the requirements set forth in Section
17.204.D.4.a., the Development Administrator will review the application within
thirty (30) days and notify the applicant via mail of his or her decision. If
an application for an administrative variation is denied, the Development
Administrator will explain the reasons for the denial and advise the applicant
that he or she may petition for a variation pursuant to Subsection
17.204.C. of this Article.
         c.   Adjoining Property Owner Objection. In the event that an
adjoining property owner objects to the administrative variation, the
application for an administrative variation will be subject to the requirements
for a public hearing for a variation with the Community Development Commission,
as set forth in Section
17.204.C.4.b.
         d.   Approval. If the Development Administrator finds the variation
request to meet the standards contained in this section, the Development
Administrator will do the following:
            (1)   Provide notification to the applicant via first class mail.
            (2)   Provide notification to the Corporate Authorities.
            (3)   Record or cause to be recorded the variation with the Office
of the DuPage County Recorder of Deeds. The applicant will bear all costs of
recording the administrative variation.
      5.   Standards For Administrative Variations. Administrative variations
will only be granted when the request is consistent with the general purpose
and intent of the UDO and the applicant has demonstrated in writing the
satisfaction of the following three (3) standards:
         a.   Hardship Or Unintentional Human Error. That a particular hardship
or practical difficulty exists that is unique to the subject property and does
not apply generally to properties in the zoning district, and that the strict
enforcement of the zoning requirement deprives the applicant of the reasonable
use of the property.
         b.   Prohibitions. That the granting of the variation will not:
         c.   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to the adjacent
property;
         d.   Increase the hazard from fire or other dangers to said property;
         e.   Diminish the value of land and buildings in the immediate
neighborhood;
         f.   Unduly increase traffic congestion in the public streets and
highways;
         g.   Increase the potential for flood damages to adjacent property;
         h.   Otherwise impair the public health, safety, comfort, morals or
general welfare of the inhabitants of the City;
         i.   That the granting of the variation will be in harmony with the
essential character of the neighborhood. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord.
O-24-032, 10-3-2024)
Sec. 17.205. Amendments, Special Use, and Other Approvals.
   A.   Amendments.
      1.   Authority. This UDO and the Zoning Map may be amended from time to
time by ordinance duly enacted by the City Council in accordance with the
procedures set out in this Section
17.205.
      2.   Purpose. The amendment process established by this Section
17.205 is intended to provide a means for making changes to the text of this
UDO and on the Zoning Map that have more or less general significance or
application. It is not intended to relieve particular hardships or to confer
special privileges or rights. Rather, it is intended as a tool to adjust the
provisions of this UDO and Zoning Map in light of changing, newly discovered or
newly important conditions, situations, or knowledge.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Amendments. An application for an amendment
may be filed by the City Council, the Community Development Commission, the
owner of, or any person having a contractual interest in, any property to be
affected by a proposed amendment to the Zoning Map, or any person interested in
a proposed amendment to the text of this UDO.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   Formal Application. A formal application for an amendment to this
UDO or the Zoning Map will be filed in accordance with the requirements of
Section
17.202.C.7.g. and Section
17.202.C.7.i. of this Article.
         b.   Referral. Every properly filed and completed formal application
for an amendment to this UDO or the Zoning Map will be referred by the
Development Administrator to the Community Development Commission.
         c.   Public Hearing. In any case where a formal application for an
amendment to this UDO or the Zoning Map is referred by the Development
Administrator, a public hearing will be set, noticed, and conducted by the
Community Development Commission in accordance with Section
17.202.E. of this Article.
         d.   Action by Community Development Commission.
            (1)   Within 21 days following the conclusion of the public
hearing, the Community Development Commission will transmit to the City Council
its recommendation in the form specified by Section
17.201.C.3. of this Article.
            (2)   The failure of the Community Development Commission to act
within 21 days following the conclusion of such hearing, or such further time
to which the applicant may agree, will be deemed a recommendation for the
approval of the proposed amendment as submitted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2843.png]
      5.   Action by City Council; Protest.
         a.   Within sixty (60) days following the receipt of the
recommendation of the Community Development Commission, or its failure to act
as above provided, the City Council will either deny the application or, by
ordinance duly adopted, adopt the proposed amendment, with or without
modifications; provided, however, that in the event a duly signed and
acknowledged protest against a proposed amendment is filed with the City Clerk
before the adoption of such amendment by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or
more of the frontage to be affected by the proposed amendment, or by the owners
of twenty percent (20%) or more of the frontage immediately adjoining or across
an alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more of the
frontage directly opposite the frontage to be affected, such amendment will not
be passed except by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.
         b.   The failure of the City Council to act within sixty (60) days or
such further time to which the applicant may agree, will be deemed to be a
decision denying the application.
      6.   Standard for Amendments. The wisdom of amending the Zoning Map or
the text of this UDO is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the
City Council and is not dictated by any set standard. However, in determining
whether a proposed amendment should be granted or denied, the City Council will
be guided by the principle that its power to amend this UDO is not an arbitrary
one but one that may be exercised only when the public good demands or requires
the amendment to be made. In considering whether that principle is satisfied in
any particular case, the City Council will weigh the factors that Section
17.202.C.7.i. requires the applicant to address.
   B.   Special Use Permits.
      1.   Authority. The City Council may, in accordance with the procedures
and standards set out in this Section and by ordinance duly adopted, grant
special use permits authorizing the development of uses listed as special
permit uses in the regulations applicable to the district in which the subject
property is located.
      2.   Purpose. Special permit uses are those uses having some special
impact or uniqueness that require a careful review of their location, design,
configuration and special impact to determine, against fixed standards, the
desirability of permitting their establishment on any given site. They are uses
that may or may not be appropriate in a particular location depending on a
weighing, in each case, of the public need and benefit against the local impact
and effect.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Special Use Permits. An application for a
special permit may be filed by the owner of, or any person having a contractual
interest in, the subject property.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   Optional Pre-application Meeting. Potential special use permit
applicants may, but not required, to request a pre-application meeting with the
Community Development Commission and, in certain other circumstances, with City
Council. The purpose of a pre-application meeting is to enable the potential
applicant to present a development concept before investing significant time
and resources for an application submittal under this UDO and obtain feedback
from the Community development Commission, and City Council, on any possible
issues or areas of concern. The pre-application meeting is optional and non-
binding and does not commit the applicant, the Development Administrator,
Community Development Commission, City Council, or any other department,
commission, board, or other official of the City in any way whatsoever. The
applicant may use the information from a pre-application meeting to prepare his
or her application, but each application will be reviewed, and all
recommendation and decisions will be conducted in accordance with the terms of
this UDO.
         b.   Formal Application. A formal application for a special permit
will be filed in accordance with the requirements of Section
17.202.C.7.h. and Section of this Article.
         c.   Referral. Every properly filed and completed formal application
for a special permit will be referred by the Development Administrator to the
Community Development Commission.
         d.   Public Hearing. In any case where a formal application for a
special use permit is referred to the Community Development Commission, a
public hearing will be set, noticed and conducted by the Community Development
Commission in accordance with Section
17.202.E. of this Article.
         e.   Action by Community Development Commission.
            (1)   Within 21 days following conclusion of the public hearing,
the Community Development Commission will transmit to the City Council its
recommendation in a form specified by Section 17.201.C of this Article,
recommending either granting the application for a special permit; granting the
application subject to conditions, as specified in Subsection (vi) below; or
denying the application.
            (2)   The failure of the Community Development Commission to act
within 21 days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, will be
deemed a recommendation for the approval of the proposed special permit.
         f.   Action by City Council. Within sixty (60) days following the
receipt of the recommendation of the Community Development Commission, or its
failure to act as above provided, the City Council will either deny the
application or, by ordinance duly adopted, will grant the special permit, with
or without modifications or conditions.
         g.   Approval by City Council After Recommendation to Deny. In the
event the Community Development Commission recommends denial of a special use
permit, the City Council may approve the special use permit, by ordinance duly
adopted, upon the favorable two-thirds (2/3) vote of all members of City
Council.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2845.png]
      5.   Standards for Special Use Permits.
         a.   General Standards. No special permit will be recommended or
granted pursuant to this Section unless the applicant will establish that:
            (1)   Code and Plan Purposes. The proposed use and development will
be in harmony with the general and specific purposes for which this UDO was
enacted and for which the regulations of the district in question were
established and with the general purpose and intent of The City of Wood Dale
Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
            (2)   No Undue Adverse Impact. The proposed use, drainage and
development will not have a substantial or undue adverse effect upon adjacent
property, the character of the area or the public health, safety and general
welfare.
            (3)   No Interference With Surrounding Development. The proposed
use and development will be constructed, arranged and operated so as not to
dominate the immediate vicinity or to interfere with the use and development of
neighboring property in accordance with the applicable district regulations.
            (4)   Adequate Public Facilities. The proposed use and development
will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services such as
streets, public utilities, drainage structures, police and fire protection,
refuse disposal, parks, libraries, and schools, or the applicant will provide
adequately for such services.
            (5)   No Traffic Congestion. The proposed use and development will
not cause undue traffic congestion nor draw significant amounts of traffic
through residential streets.
            (6)   No Destruction of Significant Features. The proposed use and
development will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of natural,
scenic or historic feature of significant importance.
            (7)   Compliance With Standards. The proposed use and development
complies with all additional standards imposed on it by the particular
provision of this UDO authorizing such use.
            (8)   Public Benefit. Whether, and to what extent, the proposed use
and development at the particular location requested is necessary or desirable
to provide a service or a facility that is in the interest of the public
convenience or that will contribute to the general welfare of the neighborhood
or community.
            (9)   Mitigation of Adverse Impacts. Whether, and to what extent,
all steps possible have been taken to minimize any adverse effects of the
proposed use and development on the immediate vicinity through building design,
site design, landscaping and screening
         b.   Special Standards for Specified Special Permit Uses. Where the
district regulations authorizing any special permit use in a particular
district impose special standards to be met by such use in such district, a
permit for such use in such district will not be recommended or granted unless
the applicant will establish compliance with such special standards.
      6.   Conditions; Periodic Review; Term.
         a.   Conditions on Special Use Permits. In order to prevent or
minimize substantial or undue adverse effects upon neighboring and adjacent
properties and improvements, substantial or undue or upon public facilities and
services, the Community Development Commission may recommend, and the City
Council may impose, and expressly include in the ordinance granting a special
permit, conditions and limitations upon the premises benefited by a special
permit. Such conditions, restrictions, and limitations may include, without
limitation, the following:
            (1)   Limitations and restrictions of the use of the subject
property;
            (2)   Restrictions on construction activity that will occur on and
around the subject property;
            (3)   Conditions concerning the character and design of the
proposed use and development;
            (4)   The location of the use within the subject property;
            (5)   The provision of landscaping and screening, with specific
regarding to design, quantity, quality, size and location;
            (6)   Restrictions on the hours of operation of the use;
            (7)   A requirement that the subject property be developed and used
in strict accordance with a site plan that is attached to the ordinance
granting the special permit; and
            (8)   Any other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of
this UDO.
         b.   Violation of Conditions. Violation of any of the conditions
imposed pursuant to Section
17.205.B.6. of this Section will be a violation of this UDO and will constitute
grounds for revocation of the special permit.
         c.   Periodic Review. The Community Development Commission may
recommend, and the City Council may impose, a requirement that the special
permit be publicly reviewed periodically pursuant to and in accordance with
such procedures as are set forth in the ordinance granting the special permit.
In every instance, such procedures will provide the applicant with advance
notice of, and an opportunity to be heard at, such periodic review.
         d.   Term of Special Permit. Because of the unique operational nature,
and potential unknown adverse impacts, of certain special permit uses, the
Community Development Commission may recommend, and the City Council may
impose, a term limitation on the duration of certain special uses. Such term
limitation will (a) be set forth in the ordinance granting the special use
permit and (b) will be subject to renewal in accordance with Section
17.205.B.11. of this Article.
      7.   Affidavit of Compliance With Conditions. Whenever any special permit
granted pursuant to this Section is made subject to conditions or limitations
to be met by the applicant, the applicant will, upon meeting such conditions,
file an affidavit with the Development Administrator so stating. Such affidavit
will be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee, to be fixed in each case by the
Development Administrator, to recover the City’s actual direct cost of an
inspection to verify that such conditions and limitations have been met.
      8.   Effect of Issuance of a Special Permit. The granting of a special
permit will not authorize the establishment or extension of any use nor the
development, construction, reconstruction, alteration or moving of any building
or structure, but will merely authorize the preparation, filing and processing
of applications for any permits or approvals that may be required by the codes
and ordinances of the City, including but not limited to, a Certificate of
Zoning Compliance, a Building Permit, a Certificate of Occupancy and
subdivision approval.
      9.   Limitations on Special Use Permits. Subject to an extension of time
granted by the Development Administrator pursuant to Section
17.201.A.12. of this Article, no special permit will be valid for a period
longer than one year unless a building permit is issued and construction is
actually begun within that period and is there-after diligently pursued to
completion or unless a Certificate of Occupancy is issued and a use commended
within that period. A special permit will be deemed to authorize only the
particular use for which it was issued, and such permit will automatically
expire and cease to be of any force or effect if such use will, for any reason,
be discontinued for a period of six (6) consecutive months or more. Except when
otherwise provided in the Ordinance granting a special permit, a special permit
will be deemed to relate to the lot itself.
      10.   Amendments to Special Use Permits. A special permit may be amended,
varied or altered only pursuant to the procedures and subject to the standards
and limitations provided in this Section
17.205.B. for its original approval.
      11.   Renewal of Special Use Permits. The City Council may, in accordance
with the procedures and standards set out in this Subsection
17.205.B.11., consider requests for renewal of special use permits that have
been term limited pursuant to Section
17.205.B.6.d. An application for the renewal of a special permit must be filed
by the party to whom a special permit was granted, or a permitted successor
thereto or assignee thereof, and must be filed prior to the date on which the
term of the special permit is scheduled to expire. The City Council may
consider such request at a public hearing following notice pursuant to Section
17.202.E. of this Article. The City Council may, but will have no obligation
to, seek the recommendation of the Community Development Commission prior to
such consideration. In the event that the party requesting a renewal
demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the City Council, that the standards and
circumstances under which the special permit was originally approved have not
materially changed, then the City Council will, by ordinance duly adopted,
renew the special permit for the same period of time for which the special
permit was first valid. In the event that the City Council determines that the
standards and circumstances under which the special permit was originally
approved have materially changed, the City Council will have no obligation to
renew the special permit, or may do so with additional conditions.
   C.   Planned Unit Developments.
      1.   Authority. The City Council may, in accordance with the procedures
and standards set out in this Section, and by ordinance duly adopted, grant
special use permits authorizing the development of planned unit developments,
but only in the districts where such developments are listed as an authorized
special permit use.
      2.   Purpose.
         a.   Planned unit developments are included in this UDO as a distinct
category of special use. As such, they are authorized for the same general
purposes as all other special uses.
         b.   In particular, however, the planned unit development technique is
intended to allow the relaxation of otherwise applicable substantive
requirements based upon procedural protections providing for detailed review of
individual proposals for significant developments. This special regulatory
technique is included in this UDO in recognition of the fact that traditional
regulations, which may be useful in protecting the character of substantially
developed and stable areas, may impose inappropriate preregulations and
rigidities upon the development or redevelopment of parcels or areas that lend
themselves to an individual, planned approach.
         c.   Through the flexibility of the planned unit development
technique, the City seeks to achieve the following specific objectives:
            (1)   Creation of a more desirable environment than would be
possible through strict application of other City land use regulations.
            (2)   Promotion of a creative approach to the use of land and
related physical facilities resulting in better design and development,
including aesthetic amenities.
            (3)   Preservation and enhancement of desirable site
characteristics such as natural topography, vegetation and geologic features,
and the prevention of soil erosion.
            (4)   Combination and coordination of architectural styles,
building forms, and building relationships.
            (5)   Provision for the preservation and beneficial use of open
space.
            (6)   An increase in the amount of open space over that which would
result from the application of conventional subdivision and zoning regulations.
            (7)   Encouragement of land uses that promote the public health,
safety and general welfare.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Planned Unit Development Approval. An
application for special use to permit a planned unit development may be filed
by the owner of, or any person having a contractual interest in, the subject
property.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   Optional Pre-application Meeting. Potential planned unit
development applicants may, but not required, to request a pre-application
meeting with the Community Development Commission and, in certain other
circumstances, with City Council. The purpose of a pre-application meeting is
to enable the potential applicant to present a planned unit development concept
before investing significant time and resources for an application submittal
under this UDO and obtain feedback from the Community Development Commission,
and City Council, on any possible issues or areas of concern. The pre-
application meeting is optional and non-binding and does not commit the
applicant, the Development Administrator, Community Development Commission,
City Council, or any other department, commission, board, or other official of
the City in any way whatsoever. The applicant may use the information from a
pre-application meeting to prepare his or her planned unit development
application, but each planned unit development application will be reviewed,
and all recommendation and decisions will be conducted in accordance with the
terms of this UDO.
         b.   Development Concept Plan.
            (1)   Purpose. The Development Concept Plan is intended to provide
the applicant an opportunity to submit a plan showing the basic scope,
character and nature of the entire proposed planned unit development without
incurring undue cost. The Development Concept Plan is the basis on which the
required public hearing is held, thus permitting public consideration of the
proposal at the earliest possible stage. In order to permit the City and the
applicant to proceed with some assurance, approval of the Development Concept
Plan binds the applicant and the City with respect to the following basic
elements of development:
               (A)   Categories of uses to be permitted;
               (B)   General location of residential and nonresidential land
uses;
               (C)   Overall maximum density of residential uses and intensity
of nonresidential uses;
               (D)   General architectural style of the proposed development;
               (E)   General location and extent of public and private open
space, including recreational amenities;
               (F)   General location of vehicular and pedestrian circulation
systems;
               (G)   Staging of development; and
               (H)   Nature, scope and extent of public dedications,
improvements or contributions to be provided by the applicant.
            (2)   Application. A Development Concept Plan will be filed in
accordance with the requirements of Section
17.202.C.7.j. and Section
17.202.C.7.l. of this Article.
            (3)   Referral. Every properly filed and completed application for
approval of a Development Concept Plan will be referred by the Development
Administrator to the Community Development Commission.
            (4)   Public Hearing. In any case where an application for approval
of a Development Concept Plan is referred by the Development Administrator
pursuant to Section
17.205.C.4.b.(3) of this Section, a public hearing will be set, noticed and
conducted by the Community Development Commission in accordance with Section
17.202.E. of this Article.
            (5)   Action by Community Development Commission.
               (A)   Within 21 days following the conclusion of the public
hearing, the Community Development Commission will transmit to the Corporate
Authorities its recommendation, in the form specified by Section
17.201.C.3. of this Article that the Development Concept Plan either be
approved, be approved subject to modifications, or not be approved.
               (B)   The failure of the Community Development Commission to act
within 21 days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, will be
deemed a recommendation for the approval of the Development Concept Plan as
submitted.
            (6)   Action by City Council.
               (A)   Within sixty (60) days following the receipt of the
recommendation of the Community Development Commission, or its failure to act
as above provided, the City Council deny the application for the Development
Concept Plan; will remand it back to the Community Development Commission for
further consideration of specified matter; or will, by ordinance duly adopted,
approve the Development Concept Plan, with or without modifications and
conditions to be accepted by the applicant as a condition of such approval, and
refer the matter to the Community Development Commission for processing of the
Final Plan in accordance with Section
17.205.C.4.c. of this Section.
               (B)   The failure of the City Council to act within sixty (60)
days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, will be deemed to
be a decision denying approval of the Development Concept Plan.
               (C)   In the event the Community Development Commission
recommends denial of a development concept plan, the City Council may only
approve the development concept plan upon the favorable two-thirds (2/3) vote
of all members of City Council.
            (7)   Coordination With Subdivision Application. When a subdivision
of land is proposed in connection with a planned unit development, review of
the tentative plan of the proposed subdivision will be carried out
simultaneously with review of the Development Concept Plan.
            (8)   Optional Submission of Final Plan. The applicant may, at his
option, submit a Final Plan for the proposed planned unit development pursuant
to the requirements of Section 17.205.C.4.c. below simultaneously with the
submission of the Development Concept Plan pursuant to the requirements of this
Section
17.205.C.4.b. In such case, the applicant will comply with all provisions of
this UDO applicable to submission of the Development Concept Plan and to
submission of the Final Plan. The Community Development Commission and the City
Council will consider such plans simultaneously and will grant or deny Final
Plan Approval in accordance with the provisions of Section
17.202.C.4.c. below.
            (9)   Concept Plan Approval. The Concept Plan approval will be
valid and binding for one year from the date of City Council approval, unless
otherwise specified by City Council.
         c.   Final Plan.
            (1)   Purpose. The Final Plan is intended to particularize, refine
and implement the Development Concept Plan and to serve as a complete, thorough
and permanent public record of the planned unit development and the manner in
which it is to be developed.
            (2)   Application. Upon approval of the Development Concept Plan,
the applicant will file an application for Final Plan approval in accordance
with the requirements of Section
17.202.C.7.k. of this Article. The application will refine, implement and be in
substantial conformity with the approved Development Concept Plan.
            (3)   Public Meeting. A public meeting will be set, noticed and
conducted by the Community Development Commission in accordance with Section
17.202.E.1. of this Article.
            (4)   Coordination With Subdivision Application. When a subdivision
of land is proposed in connection with a planned unit development, review of
the final plat of the proposed subdivision will be carried out simultaneously
with review of the Final Plan.
            (5)   Phasing of Final Plan Approval. An application for Final Plan
approval may include the entire area included in the approved Development
Concept Plan or one or more phases, stages or units thereof; provided, however,
that the following matters must be addressed and provided in the first phase,
stage or unit submitted for Final Plan approval:
               (A)   All public improvements required or proposed for the
entire area included in the approved Development Concept Plan.
               (B)   All open space required or proposed for the entire area
included in the approved Development Concept Plan.
               (C)   All land dedications required or proposed for the entire
area included in the approved Development Concept Plan.
               (D)   The payment of all fees required by this UDO.
            (6)   Action by Community Development Commission.
               (A)   Evaluation. Within sixty (60) days following the filing of
an application for approval of a Final Plan, the Community Development
Commission will with such aid and advice of such City staff and consultants as
may be appropriate, review and act on the plan. Such review will consider:
                  i.   Whether the Final Plan is in substantial conformity with
the approved Development Concept Plan;
                  ii.   The merit or lack of merit of any departure of the
Final Plan from substantial conformity with the approved Development Concept
Plan;
                  iii.   Whether the Final Plan complies with any and all
conditions imposed by the approval of the Development Concept Plan; and
                  iv.   Whether the Final Plan complies with the provisions of
this UDO and all other applicable federal, state and City codes, ordinances and
regulations.
               (B)   Approval Based on Substantial Conformity. If the Community
Development Commission finds substantial conformity between the Final Plan and
the approved Development Concept Plan and further finds the Final Plan to be in
all other respects complete and in compliance with any and all conditions
imposed by approval of the Development Concept Plan and with the provisions of
this UDO and all other applicable federal, state and City codes, ordinances and
regulations, it will transmit the plan to the City Council with its
recommendation, in the form specified in Section
17.201.C.3. of this Article, that the Board approve the Final Plan, with or
without modifications and conditions to be accepted by the applicant as a
condition of approval.
               (C)   Recommendation of Denial. In any case where the Community
Development Commission finds that the Final Plan is not in substantial
conformity with the approved Development Concept Plan and does not merit
approval, or in any case where it requires modifications of a plan that are not
accepted by the applicant, the Community Development Commission will transmit
the plan to the City Council together with its recommendation and specific
reasons in support of its recommendation, in the form specified in Section
17.201.C.3. of this Article, that the Final Plan not be approved.
               (D)   Failure to Act. The failure of the Community Development
Commission to act within the 60 day period specified in Section
17.205.C.4.c.(6)(A), or such further time to which the applicant may agree,
will be deemed to be a recommendation to the City Council to approve the Final
Plan as submitted.
            (7)   Action by City Council. Within sixty (60) days following the
receipt of the recommendation of the Community Development Commission, or its
failure to act as above provided, the City Council will take action in
accordance with the following Paragraphs:
               (A)   Approval Based on Substantial Conformity. If the Community
Development Commission has recommended approval of a Final Plan, the City
Council will, unless it specifically rejects one or more of the findings of the
Community Development Commission on the basis of expressly stated reasons,
approve the Final Plan by a duly adopted ordinance.
               (B)   Approval Notwithstanding Community Development Commission
Recommendation of Denial. If the Community Development Commission has
recommended denial of a Final Plan pursuant to Section
17.205.C.4.c.(6)(C), the City Council may, if it finds that the Final Plan
merits approval and otherwise conforms to the requirements of this UDO, approve
the Final Plan upon the favorable two-thirds (2/3) vote of all members of the
City Council, by ordinance duly adopted.
               (C)   Referral Back to Community Development Commission. In any
case other than that specified in Section
17.205.C.4.c.(6)(C) above, the City Council may refer the Final Plan back to
the Community Development Commission for further consideration of specified
matters.
               (D)   Conditions on Final Plan Approval. The approval of any
Final Plan may, in addition, be granted, with or without modifications and
conditions to be accepted by the applicant as a condition of approval.
               (E)   Failure to Act. The failure of the City Council to act
within sixty (60) days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree,
will be deemed to be a decision denying Final Plan approval.
            (8)   Recording of Final Plan. When a Final Plan is approved, the
Development Administrator will cause the Final Plan, or the portions thereof as
are appropriate, to be recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of DuPage County.
            (9)   Limitation on Final Plan Approval. Construction will commence
in accordance with the approved Final Plan within one year after the approval
of such Plan, or within such shorter time as may be established by the approved
development schedule. Failure to commence construction within this period will,
unless an extension of time is granted by the Development Administrator
pursuant to Section
17.201.A.12. of this Article, automatically void the Final Plan approval and
all approvals of the planned unit development and all permits based on the
approvals, and the Development Administrator will, without further direction,
initiate an appropriate application to revoke the special permit for all
portions of the planned unit development that have not yet been completed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2847.png]
            (10)   Building and Other Permits.
               (A)   Appropriate officials of the City may, upon, but not
before, receiving notice from the Development Administrator that the documents
required for Final Plan approval have been approved, and upon proper
application by the applicant, issue building and other permits to the applicant
for the development, construction and other work in the area encompassed by the
approved Final Plan; provided however, that no permit will be issued unless the
appropriate official is first satisfied that the requirements of any codes or
ordinances of the City, in addition to this UDO, that are applicable to the
permit sought have been satisfied.
               (B)   Building permits may, however, be withheld at the
discretion of the Development Administrator or the City Council at any time it
is determined that the development of the planned unit development is not
proceeding in strict compliance with the approved Final Plan.
      5.   Standards for Planned Unit Developments.
         a.   Special Permit Standards. No special permit for a planned unit
development will be recommended or granted pursuant to this Section unless the
applicant will establish that the proposed development will meet each of the
standards made applicable to special permit uses pursuant to Section
17.205.B.5. of this Article.
         b.   Additional Standards for All Planned Unit Developments. No
special permit for a planned unit development will be recommended or granted
unless the applicant will establish that the proposed development will meet
each of the following additional standards:
         c.   Unified Ownership Required. The entire property proposed for
planned unit development treatment will be in single ownership or under such
unified control as to ensure that the entire property will be developed as a
unified whole. All owners of the property will be included as joint applicants
on all applications and all approvals will bind all owners. The violation of
any owner as to any tract will be deemed a violation as to all owners and all
tracts.
         d.   Minimum Area. The district regulations of this UDO establishing
standards for particular types of planned unit development specify the minimum
area required for same planned unit development. In addition to meeting that
specific standard, or where no specific standard is set, the applicant will
have the burden of establishing that the subject property is of sufficient size
and shape to be planned and developed as a unified whole capable of meeting the
objectives for which planned unit developments may be established pursuant to
this Section.
         e.   Covenants and Restrictions to be Enforceable by City. All
covenants, deed restrictions, easements and similar restrictions to be recorded
in connection with the planned unit development will provide that they may not
be modified, removed or released without the express consent of the City
Council and that they may be enforced by the City as well as by future
landowners within the proposed development.
         f.   Public Open Space and Contributions. Whenever The City of Wood
Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan or Official Map indicates that development of
a planned unit development will create a need for land for public purposes of
the City within the proposed planned unit development, the City Council may
require that such area be designated and to the extent such need is
specifically and uniquely attributable to the proposed development, dedicated
to the City for such use. In addition, the City Council may require evidence
that all requirements of City ordinances pertaining to the dedication of land
or the contribution of cash in connection with subdivisions or developments of
land have been met as respects the proposed planned unit development.
         g.   Common Open Space.
            (1)   Amount, Location and Use. The failure of a planned unit
development to provide common open space will be considered to be an indication
that it has not satisfied the objectives for which such developments may be
approved pursuant to this UDO. When common open space is provided in a planned
unit development, the amount and location of such open space will be consistent
with its intended function as set forth in the application and planned unit
development plans. No such open space will be used for the construction of any
structure or improvement except such structures and improvements as may be
approved in the Final Plan as appropriate to the intended leisure and
recreational uses for which such open space is intended.
            (2)   Preservation. Adequate safeguards, including recorded
covenants or dedication of development rights, will be provided to prevent the
subsequent use of common open space for any use, structure, improvement or
development other than that shown on the approved Final Plan. The restrictions
must be permanent and not for a given period of years and must run with the
land.
            (3)   Ownership and Maintenance. The Final Plan will include such
provisions for the ownership and maintenance of such open space and
improvements as are reasonably necessary to ensure their continuity, care,
conservation, maintenance and operation in accordance with predetermined
standards and to ensure that remedial measures will be available to the City if
such open space or improvements are permitted to deteriorate or are not
maintained in a condition consistent with the best interests of the planned
unit development or the City.
            (4)   Property Owners’ Association. When the requirements of the
preceding Subparagraph are to be satisfied by the ownership or maintenance of
such open space or improvements by a property owners’ association, such
association will meet each of the following standards:
               (A)   The by-laws and rules of the association and all
declarations, covenants and restrictions to be recorded must be approved as
part of the Detailed Plan prior to becoming effective. Each such document will
provide that it will not be amended in any manner that would result in it being
in violation of the requirements of this Subparagraph.
               (B)   The association must be established and all covenants and
restrictions recorded prior to the sale of any property within the area of the
planned unit development designated to have the exclusive use of the proposed
open space or improvements.
               (C)   The association must be responsible for casualty and
liability insurance, taxes, and the maintenance of the open space and
improvements to be deeded to it.
               (D)   Membership in the association must be mandatory for each
property owner, and any successive owner, having a right to the use or
enjoyment of such open space or improvements.
               (E)   Every property having a right to the use of enjoyment of
such open space or improvements must pay its pro rata share of the cost of the
association by means of an assessment to be levied by the association that
meets the requirements for becoming a lien on the property in accordance with
statutes of the State of Illinois.
               (F)   The association must have the right to adjust the
assessment to meet changed needs. The membership vote required to authorize
such adjustment will not be fixed at more than 51 percent of the members voting
on the issue.
               (G)   The City must be given the right to enforce the covenants.
               (H)   The City must be given the right, after ten days’ written
notice to the association, to perform any maintenance or repair work that the
association has neglected to perform, to assess the membership for such work
and to have a lien against the property of any member failing to pay such
assessment. For this purpose alone, the City will have all the rights and
powers of the association and its governing body under the agreements and
declarations creating the association.
         h.   Landscaping and Perimeter Treatment. Any area of a planned unit
development not used for structures or circulation elements will be landscaped
or otherwise improved. The perimeter of the planned unit development will be
treated so as to ensure compatibility with surrounding uses by means such as
provision of compatible uses and structures; setbacks; screening; or natural or
manmade buffers. Every planned unit development will provide a perimeter
landscaped open space along each of its boundaries; each such open space will
have a minimum depth equal to the minimum applicable yard required in the
district in which it is located.
         i.   Private Streets. Private streets will be permitted in a planned
unit development provided that:
            (1)   Said streets will be treated as public streets and rights of
way for purposes of all setbacks, yards and calculations under this UDO.
            (2)   Said streets will be owned and maintained by a property
owners’ association meeting the requirements set forth in Section
17.205.C.5.g.(4) above;
            (3)   A covenant will be recorded against the subject property
acknowledging that the City will at no time be under any obligation to provide
maintenance for or accept dedication of said streets; and
            (4)   Said streets shall be constructed in compliance with all city
codes, rules, and policies governing the construction of public streets and
rights of way.
         j.   Utilities. All utility lines will be installed underground.
         k.   Additional Standards for Specific Planned Unit Developments.
Where the district regulations authorizing any planned unit development use in
a particular district impose standards to be met by such planned unit
development in such district, a special permit for such development will not be
recommended or granted unless the applicant will establish compliance with such
special standards.
         l.   Waiver of Additional Standards. The Community Development
Commission may waive any additional standards where the applicant demonstrates
to the satisfaction of the Community Development Commission that the
information required is not relevant to or necessary for the determination of
the application submitted.
      6.   Conditions on Planned Unit Development Approvals. The approval of
either a Development Concept Plan or a Final Plan may be conditioned on such
matters as the approving body may find necessary to prevent or minimize any
possible adverse effects of the proposed planned unit development; or to ensure
its compatibility with surrounding uses and development and its consistency
with the general purposes, goals and objectives of this UDO, does not exist and
The City of Wood Dale Comprehensive Land Use Plan. Such conditions will be
expressly set forth in the ordinance or resolution granting the approval in
question. Violation of any such condition or limitation will be a violation of
this UDO and will constitute grounds for revocation of all approvals granted
for the planned unit development.
      7.   Affidavit of Compliance With Conditions; Fee. Whenever any planned
unit development approval granted pursuant to this Section is made subject to
conditions or limitations to be met by the applicant, the applicant will, upon
meeting such conditions, file an affidavit with the Development Administrator
so stating. Such affidavit will be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee, to be
fixed in each case by the Development Administrator, to recover the City’s
actual direct cost of an inspection to verify that such conditions and
limitations have been met.
      8.   Regulation During and Following Completion of Development. Following
Final Plan approval, in the event of an express conflict between the provisions
of the Final Plan and this UDO, the Final Plan will control. This UDO will
control in all other instances.
      9.   Inspections During Development.
         a.   Inspections by Development Administrator. Following approval of
the Final Plan of a planned unit development, or any stage thereof, the
Development Administrator will, at least annually until the completion of
development, review all permits issued and construction undertaken and compare
actual development with the approved plans for development and with the
approved development schedule.
         b.   Action by Development Administrator. If the Development
Administrator finds that development is not proceeding in accordance with the
approved schedule, or that it fails in any other respect to comply with the
Final Plan, the Development Administrator will immediately notify the City
Council of such fact and may, if necessary to protect the public health, safety
or welfare or to prevent further violation of this UDO and the Final Plan,
issue an order stopping any and all work on the planned unit development until
such time as any noncompliance is cured.
         c.   Action by City Council. Within sixty (60) days following
notification by the Development Administrator, the City Council will either:
            (1)   Take such steps as it deems necessary to compel compliance
with the Final Plan; or
            (2)   Require the owner or applicant to seek an adjustment to the
Final Plan as provided in Subsection (11) of this Section.
      10.   Adjustments to Final Plan During Development.
         a.   Minor Adjustments. During the development of a planned unit
development, the Development Administrator may authorize minor adjustments to
the Final Plan when such adjustments appear necessary in light of the technical
or engineering considerations first discovered during actual development. Such
minor adjustments will be limited to the following:
            (1)   Altering the location of any one structure or group of
structures by not more than 5 feet or one-fourth of the distance shown on the
approved Final Plan between such structure or structures and any other
structure or any vehicular circulation element or any boundary of the planned
unit development, whichever is less;
            (2)   Altering the location of any circulation element by not more
than five (5) feet or one-fourth of the distance shown on the approved Final
Plan between such circulation element and any structure, whichever is less;
            (3)   Altering the location of any open space by not more than
twenty (20) feet;
            (4)   Altering any final grade by not more than ten percent (10%)
of the originally planned grade; and
            (5)   Altering the location or type of landscaping elements.
            (6)   Such minor adjustments will be consistent with the intent and
purpose of this UDO and the Final Plan as approved, will be the minimum
necessary to overcome the particular difficulty and will not be approved if
they would result in a violation of any standard or requirement of this UDO.
         b.   Major Adjustments. Any adjustment to the Final Plan not
authorized by Section 17.205.C.10.a. above will be considered to a major
adjustment and will be granted only upon application to and approval by, the
City Council. The City Council may, by ordinance duly adopted, grant approval
for a major adjustment without a hearing upon finding that any changes in the
Final Plan as approved will be in substantial conformity with said Final Plan.
If the City Council determines that a major adjustment is not in substantial
conformity with the Final Plan as approved, then the Board may refer the
request to the Community Development Commission for further hearing, review and
recommendation.
      11.   Amendments to Final Plan Following Completion of Development. After
completion of a planned unit development, an approved Final Plan may be
amended, varied, or altered only pursuant to the procedures and subject to the
standards and limitations provided in this Section
17.205.C. for approval of the planned unit development. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-
2022; amd. Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-2024)
Sec. 17.206. Site Plan Review.
   A.   Authority. Except in the cases of uses and developments requiring a
special use permit pursuant to the provisions in this UDO, the Development
Administrator may, as a matter of original jurisdiction and in accordance with
the procedures and standards set out in this Section
17.206, grant site plan approval to uses and developments requiring such
approval pursuant to Section
17.206.D.1. In case of uses and developments requiring a special use permit
pursuant to Section
17.205.B. or Section
17.205.C. of this Article, and in cases of appeal from a denial of approval by
the Development Administrator, the City Council may, by ordinance duly adopted,
grant site plan approval in accordance with the procedures and standards set
out in this Section.
   B.   Purpose. The site plan review process recognizes that even those uses
and developments that have been determined to be generally suitable for
location in a particular district are capable of adversely affecting the
purposes for which this UDO was enacted unless careful consideration is given
to critical design elements. It is the purpose of this Section to provide a
vehicle for the review of the developer’s attention to such elements.
   C.   Site Plan Review Required.
      1.   Development Administrator Review. Site plan review by the
Development Administrator in accordance with this Section will be required in
connection with the following developments:
         a.   Any development or redevelopment in the TCC - Thorndale Corridor
Corporate Overlay District.
         b.   Any development or redevelopment in the I-1 Industrial District.
         c.   Any development or redevelopment involving a parcel or contiguous
parcels under single ownership or control having an area in excess of 20,000
square feet.
         d.   Any development or redevelopment involving the construction of
any new structure or structures having a gross floor area in excess of 20,000
square feet, a floor area ratio in excess of 0.25 or a height of more than
three stories.
         e.   Any development or redevelopment involving an existing structure
having a floor area in excess of 20,000 square feet, a floor area ratio in
excess of 0.25, or a height in excess of three stories that would alter any
such measure by more than 25 percent of such amount.
         f.   Any development or redevelopment involving the creation or
expansion of a parking lot or garage or a loading space.
         g.   Any nonresidential development on a lot abutting or across a
right of way from any residential district.
         h.   Any development or redevelopment involving a personal wireless
services antenna, with or without an antenna support structure, that is not a
special permit use.
         i.   Any development or redevelopment for which this UDO requires a
special permit, including planned unit development approval.
      2.   City Council Review. Site plan review by the City Council may be
sought in any case of a denial of site plan approval by the Development
Administrator.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Site Plan Approval. Application for site
plan review may be filed by the owner of, or any person having a contractual
interest in, the subject property.
   D.   Procedure.
      1.   Development Administrator Approvals.
         a.   Application. Applications for site plan approval by the
Development Administrator will be filed in accordance with the requirements of
Section
17.202.C.7.l. of this Article.
         b.   Action by Development Administrator.
            (1)   Within 30 days following receipt by the Development
Administrator of a properly completed application, the Development
Administrator will cause such application and the attached site plan to be
reviewed, in terms of the standards established by Section
17.206.C.1., by appropriate members of his or her staff.
            (2)   The Development Administrator will then either: (1) approve
the site plan as submitted; (2) on the basis of written findings in accordance
with Section
17.206.D.1.b.(3), approve it subject to specific modification; or (3) on the
basis of such written findings, deny approval of the site plan.
            (3)   Immediately upon concluding the review, the Development
Administrator will return one copy of the site plan to the applicant marked to
show either approval, approval subject to modification, which modification will
be clearly and permanently marked on such plans, or denial or approval. The
Development Administrator will maintain a similarly marked set of such plans in
his or her files for any further processing that may be required.
            The failure of the Development Administrator to act within the
thirty (30) days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, will
be deemed to be a decision approving the site plan as submitted.
         c.   Effect of Development Administrator’s Action.
            (1)   The action of the Development Administrator in approving a
site plan or in approving a site plan subject to modifications that are
acceptable to the applicant will constitute a final administrative action and
will not be subject to further review by, or appeal to, any City Council or the
Community Development Commission.
            (2)   The action of the Development Administrator in denying an
application for site plan approval or in approving a site plan subject to
modifications that are not acceptable to the applicant (which action the
applicant may treat as a denial) will not be considered final action by the
City but will only be authorization for the applicant to seek approval of the
site plan from the City Council by way of the appeal procedure set forth below.
         d.   Appeals. Within 45 days following a denial of site plan approval
by the Development Administrator, the applicant may seek approval of the site
plan by filing an application for appeal to the City Council in accordance with
the requirements of Section
17.202.C.7. of this Article. Any such appeal will be proceeded in accordance
with the provisions of Section
17.206.D.2.
      2.   City Council Appellate Jurisdiction.
         a.   Application. Applications for site plan approval by the City
Council under its appellate jurisdiction will be filed in accordance with the
requirements of Section C.1. of this Article. In cases where review is sought
by way of an appeal of a denial of site plan approval by the Development
Administrator, the application for appeal will be filed within 45 days
following such denial.
         b.   Action by Development Administrator in Appeal Cases. Upon receipt
of a properly completed application for an appeal of a denial of site plan
approval by the Development Administrator, the Development Administrator will
forthwith transmit to the City Council the application for appeal, the original
application for site plan approval, all papers constituting the record upon
which the Development Administrator’s denial was based and a copy of the
Development Administrator’s decision denying the application for site plan
approval.
         c.   Public Meeting. A public meeting will be set, noticed and
conducted by the City Council in accordance with Section
17.202.E. of this Article.
         d.   Action by City Council.
            (1)   Within 35 days following the conclusion of the public
meeting, the City Council will, by ordinance duly adopted, either approve the
site plan as submitted, make modifications acceptable to the applicant and
approve such modified site plan or approve or disapprove it in the manner
hereinafter specified.
            (2)   The failure of the City Council to act within sixty (60)
days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, will be deemed to
be a decision denying site plan approval.
   E.   Standards For Site Plan Disapproval.
      1.   Standards. The Development Administrator and the City Council will
not disapprove a site plan submitted pursuant to this Section except on the
basis of specific written findings directed to one or more of the following
standards:
         a.   The application is incomplete in specified particulars or
contains or reveals violations of this UDO or other applicable regulations that
the applicant has, after written request, failed or refused to supply or
correct.
         b.   The application is submitted in connection with another
application, the approval of which is a condition precedent to the necessity
for site plan review, and the applicant has failed to secure approval of that
application.
         c.   The site plan fails to adequately meet specified standards
required by this UDO with respect to the proposed use or development, including
special use standards where applicable.
         d.   The proposed site plan interferes with easements or rights-of-
way.
         e.   The proposed site plan is unreasonably injurious or detrimental
to the use and enjoyment of surrounding property.
         f.   The proposed site plan creates undue traffic congestion or
hazards in the public streets, or the circulation elements of the proposed site
plan unreasonably create hazards to safety on or off site or disjointed or
inefficient pedestrian or vehicular circulation path on or off site.
         g.   The screening of the site does not provide adequate shielding
from or for nearby uses.
         h.   The proposed site plan creates unreasonable drainage or erosion
problems or fails to fully and satisfactory integrate the site into the overall
existing and planned drainage system serving the City.
         i.   The proposed site plan places unwarranted or unreasonable burdens
on specified utility systems serving the site or area or fails to fully and
satisfactory integrate site utilities into the overall existing and planned
utility systems serving the City.
         j.   The proposed site plan does not provide for required public uses
designated on the Official Map.
         k.   The proposed site plan otherwise adversely affects the public
health, safety or general welfare.
      2.   Alternative Approaches. In citing any of the foregoing standards,
other than those of Section
17.206.E.1.a. and
17.206.E.1.b., as the basis for disapproving a site plan, the Development
Administrator or the City Council may suggest alternative site plan approaches
that could be developed to avoid the specified deficiency or may state the
reasons why such deficiency cannot be avoided consistent with the applicant’s
objectives.
   F.   Effect Of Site Plan Approval.
      Approval of a site plan will not authorize the establishment or extension
of any use nor the development, construction, reconstruction, alteration or
moving of any building or structure, but will merely authorize the preparation,
filing and processing of applications for any permits or approvals that may be
required by the codes and ordinances of the City, including, but not limited
to, a Certificate of Zoning Compliance, a Building Permit, a Certificate of
Occupancy and Subdivision Approval.
      A copy of every approved site plan will be filed with the Development
Administrator and the development of the site will be in substantial conformity
with such approved and filed plan.
   G.   Limitations On Site Plan Approval. Subject to an extension of time
granted by the Development Administrator pursuant to Section
17.201.A.12. of this Article, no site plan approval will be valid for a period
longer than one year unless a building permit is issue and construction is
actually begun within that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to
completion or unless a Certificate of Occupancy is issued and a use commenced
within that period.
   H.   Adjustments To Site Plan During Development.
      1.   Site Plans Approved by the Development Administrator. During the
development of the site, the Development Administrator will have authority to
authorize any adjustment to a site plan that the Development Administrator
could have authorized in the course of his original review.
      2.   Site Plans Approved by the City Council.
         a.   Minor Adjustments. During the development of the site, the
Development Administrator may authorize minor adjustments to a site plan
approved by the City Council under its appellate jurisdiction when such
adjustments appear necessary in light of technical or engineering
considerations first discovered during actual development. Such minor
adjustments will be limited to the following:
            (1)   Altering the location of any one structure or group of
structures by not more than 5 feet or one-fourth of the distance shown on the
approved site plan between such structure or structures and any other structure
or any vehicular circulation element or any boundary of the site plan,
whichever is less.
            (2)   Altering the location of any circulation element by not more
than five (5) feet or one-fourth of the distance shown on the approved site
plan between such circulation element and any structure, whichever is less.
            (3)   Altering the location of any open space by not more than
twenty (20) feet.
            (4)   Altering any final grade by not more than ten percent (10%)
of the originally planned grade.
            (5)   Altering the location or type of landscaping elements.
            Such minor adjustments will be consistent with the intent and
purpose of this UDO and the site plan as approved, will be the minimum
necessary to overcome the particular difficulty and will not be approved if
they would result in a violation of any standard or requirement of this UDO.
         b.   Major Adjustments. Any adjustment to a site plan approved by the
City Council under its appellate jurisdiction that is not authorized by Section
17.206.H.2.a. above will be considered a major adjustment and will be granted
only upon application to and approval by, the City Council. The City Council
may, by ordinance duly adopted, grant approval for major adjustment without
referral to the Community Development Commission upon finding that any changes
in the site plan as approved will be in substantial conformity with said plan.
   I.   Amendments To Site Plan Following Completion Of Development. After a
site is developed in accordance with an approved site plan, the approved site
plan may be amended, varied, or altered in the same manner and subject to the
same limitations as provided for the original approval of site plans. (Ord. O-
22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-22-030, 11-17-2022; Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-2024)
ARTICLE III
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
17.301. Introduction
17.302. Standards Applicable To All Districts
17.303. Conditions For Specific Land Use
17.304. Temporary Structures And Uses
17.305. Accessory Structures And Uses
17.306. Home Based Businesses
17.307. Adult Entertainment Establishments
17.308. Cannabis
17.309. Community Residence
17.3010. Fences
17.3011. Collection Boxes
17.3012. Telecommunications
Sec. 17.301. Introduction.
   A.   Scope. No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed, or structurally altered, nor shall any building, structure, or
land be used for any purpose other than is permitted in the District in which
such is located and the requirements of this Chapter. Further, no application
for a building permit or other permit, license, or certificate shall be
approved by the Development Administrator, their designee, or other City
official unless in keeping with the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Concurrence with Plans and Other Regulations. As may be relevant to
enforcement of this Unified Development Code, and as part of enforcing the Wood
Dale City Code, the following City plans, and regulations shall be part of
implementing this Chapter:
      1.   Comprehensive Plan: The Wood Dale Comprehensive Plan, adopted August
2, 2018 shall provide guidance in the approval of all development under this
Chapter 17: Unified Development Code (Chapter) of the Wood Dale, IL Code of
Ordinances.
      2.   Homes for a Changing Region: The Homes for a Changing Region Plan,
adopted in 2015 shall provide guidance in the approval of all development under
this Chapter 17: Unified Development Code (Chapter) of the Wood Dale, IL Code
of Ordinances.
      3.   Vision Plan: The City’s Vision Plan, adopted in 2013 shall provide
guidance in the approval of development in the town center area under this
Chapter 17: Unified Development Code (Chapter) of the Wood Dale, IL Code of
Ordinances.
      4.   Stormwater and Floodplain Management: All development shall be
constructed in compliance with the regulations of Chapter 10: Stormwater and
Floodplain Management in the City Code.
      5.   Building Permits: All development shall be constructed in compliance
with the regulations of Chapter 12: Building Code in the City Code.
      6.   Signs: All signage shall comply with regulations of
Chapter 13: Sign Code in the City Code.
      7.   Liquor: All relevant businesses shall be operated in compliance with
the regulations of Chapter 5: Liquor Control in the City Code. (Ord. O-22-017,
5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.302. Standards Applicable To All Districts.
   A.   Uses of Land and Structures: Any use of land or structures shall comply
with the regulations specified in this Section (
17.302), regulations of this Chapter, and regulations of the Wood Dale City
Code.
      1.   Uses of land shall be designated as Permitted, Special or Temporary
in Table 4-5 Permitted Use Table, of this Chapter. Uses of land or structures
not so designated as a Permitted, Special, or Temporary Use shall be
prohibited.
      2.   Accessory Uses of land and structures shall be regulated per Section
17.305 of this Article, and other relevant requirements of the City Code.
      3.   New Uses of Existing Structures: The use of any existing structure
that is changed to another use shall comply with the use regulations of this
Chapter. The establishment of a new use does require the existing structure to
conform to the lot size or bulk regulations of this Chapter.
      4.   New Structures: All Newly Built structures, shall comply with all
regulations of this Chapter. Any structure damaged or destroyed by fire or
other casualty shall be regulated by Article 7: Non-Conforming Lots, Buildings,
Structures and Uses of this Chapter.
      5.   All requirements for lot area, yard setback, and other bulk
standards specified by the Zoning District in which a Zoning Lot is located, or
other requirements of this Chapter, shall be met on the same lot as the
structure or use to which they apply is located, unless specifically allowed
otherwise by this Chapter.
   B.   Lot Development Regulations: No structure or part thereof shall be
built, moved or remodeled, and no structure or land shall be used, occupied,
arranged or designed for use or occupancy unless it complies with the minimum
regulations of the Zoning District in which it is located and all standards of
this Chapter, including but not limited to: lot area, density, lot width lot
depth, yard setbacks, lot coverage, building height, or off street loading and
parking; unless specifically allowed otherwise by this Chapter.
   C.   Number of Structures on a Zoning Lot: Not more than one principal
structure shall be located on a single Zoning Lot, unless such principal
structures are located in a Planned Unit Development that was approved pursuant
to the provisions of this Chapter.
   D.   Public Sewer and Water Facilities Required. Existing structures not
connected to a public sanitary sewage disposal system and water distribution
system (as may be required by the City Code) that are enlarged or altered,
shall be connected to a public sanitary sewage disposal system and water
distribution system provided said structure is within two hundred feet (200')
of an existing system. Such structures not within two hundred feet (200') of an
existing public sanitary sewage disposal system and water distribution system
shall nonetheless be connected to said system if, as determined by the
Development Administrator, failure to connect said structure shall create a
hazard to the public health, safety, or welfare. All property annexed to the
City after the adoption date of this Ordinance shall connect to City water and
sewer services.
   E.   Public sidewalks required. Any person subdividing or developing
property shall install a public sidewalk along the frontage of the property as
required per the City of Wood Dale Engineering Design and Development Standards
Manual. This requirement shall be applicable when any a new principal building
or structure is constructed.
   F.   Sight Triangle:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2849.png]
 
      1.   No building, structure, fence, sign, landscaping, or other
obstruction (except shade trees, streetlight poles and signposts) whether
temporary or not, may be located in the Sight Triangle.
      2.   The Sight Triangle is defined as a three-dimensional volume, the
bottom of which is three feet (3') above grade and the top of which is eight
feet (8') above grade, and the sides of which are formed by the right-of-way
lines of two streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a driveway on a
lot (See Figure 3-1).
      3.   The sides a Site Triangle shall be thirty feet (30') long along
intersecting street rights-of-way. The sides a Site Triangle shall be ten feet
(10') long along the street right-of-way and the driveway or alley when they
intersect with a street right-of-way.
   G.   Platted Building and Setback Lines: In cases where a building or
setback line on a recorded subdivision plat is different than required by the
applicable standard in this Chapter, whichever standard is greater shall apply.
   H.   Effect on Prior Plans. Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to
require any change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
upon which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the adoption of this
Chapter and upon which building actual construction has been diligently carried
on; provided that such building shall be completed within two (2) years from
the date of passage of this Chapter.
   I.   Utility Lines and Extensions: Each detached single-family and attached
single-family dwelling unit shall be served with its own water line, sanitary
sewer line, sump pump line, if applicable, and other utility lines and
extensions.
   J.   Screening Of Mechanical Equipment: All rooftop mechanical service
equipment shall be fully screened from view in a manner to be determined the
Development Administrator to ensure that screening is effective in limiting
views from other properties and rights of way. Forms of screening may include
but not be limited to: locating at center of principal structure, physical
screening, or painting to match or blend in with the color of the building.
   K.   All Uses to be Conducted Indoors: All uses shall be conducted within
completely enclosed buildings, unless otherwise permitted by this Chapter.
   L.   Frontage: All lots and parcels shall have frontage on a public or
private street.
   M.   Alleys: Where an alley abuts the boundary of a public open space (such
as a park, square, or greenbelt) a six feet (6') high Privacy Fence shall
separate the alley from the public open space.
   N.   Outdoor Activities: The following regulations shall apply to accessory
outdoor activities of principal uses allowed per this Chapter. These
regulations are in addition to other requirements of the Zoning District in
which the specified outdoor activity may be conducted and other relevant
aspects of the City Code.
      1.   Location.
         a.   No activities specified in this Section (
17.302.M. Outdoor Activities) may be located in the front or corner side yard,
unless authorized by the Development Administrator to be within a corner side
yard based on a unique characteristic of the property that makes meeting this
requirement unworkable.
         b.   Activities specified in this Section (
17.302.M. Outdoor Activities) shall be sited so as to be incorporated into the
overall site, building, and landscape design of property such that the visual
and acoustic impacts of these functions are located out of view from adjacent
properties and public streets. Where meeting this location requirement is found
unworkable due to unique site characteristics by the Development Administrator,
the Development Administrator may authorize the use of fence or landscaping as
screening materials to accomplish this intent.
      2.   Trash Enclosures:
         a.   Trash Enclosures shall be required to screen dumpsters and other
waste/recycling receptacles or equipment in all Commercial and Industrial,
Zoning Districts and all multi-family uses.
         b.   Where Trash Enclosures are installed, they shall provide three
(3) sides of a solid wall or fence not less than six feet (6') nor greater than
seven feet (7') in height, and a solid single or double access gate on the
fourth side. If the Trash Enclosure is placed against a building wall, the
building wall shall count as one of the three (3) side walls.
         c.   If the Trash Enclosure is a fence it shall be constructed with
red cedar, redwood, cypress, or other decay resistant treated wood as
authorized by the Development Administrator.
         d.   If a Trash Enclosure made of masonry material is located on a
property with a principal structure constructed of masonry material, the
material used to construct the Trash Enclosure shall match or complement
materials of the principal structure.
         e.   The Trash Enclosure shall be located so as not to interfere with
safe travel by vehicles, bicycles or pedestrians, nor shall it be located
within the Sight Triangle.
         f.   The Trash Enclosure shall be used strictly for the confinement of
refuse, recyclable material, and grease containers and shall not be used for
the outdoor storage of other materials or equipment.
         g.   The owner of the property upon which the Trash Enclosure and
refuse collection area is located shall be responsible for its maintenance.
         h.   The Trash Enclosure shall be of such size as is sufficient to
encompass all containers, whether used for refuse, recycling, and/or grease.
         i.   Shared Trash Enclosure are encouraged among adjacent properties,
where practical.
         j.   Areas for Trash Enclosure and refuse collection shall be located
out of view from public streets and adjacent properties or screened as required
by the Development Administrator to mitigate unsightly views.
      3.   Outdoor Storage:
         a.   Permitted: Outdoor Storage is permitted only in I-1, C-2, and C-
3 and TCC Zoning Districts.
         b.   Regulation of Outdoor Storage Areas:
            (1)   Areas used for the Outdoor Storage shall be permanently
defined and screened with walls and/or fences as required by this Subsection (
17.302.M.3.b.), Article 6: Landscape and Tree Preservation, Article 2, Section
17.206: Site Plan Review, Article 10: Performance Standards and other
applicable regulations of this Chapter.
            (2)   Materials, colors, and design of screening walls and/or
fences and the cover shall conform to those used as predominant materials and
colors on the building, as shall be approved through requirements and processes
of Article 2, Section
17.206: Site Plan Review.
            (3)   All Outdoor Storage shall be effectively screened and
enclosed by a solid wall or fence at least six feet (6') in height. If
materials to be stored outdoors are in excess of six feet (6') in height, then
an eight foot (8') solid wall or fence shall be utilized and landscape
screening shall be provided in accordance with Article 6: Landscaping and Tree
Preservation of this Chapter so as to minimize such views.
            (4)   Areas for outdoor storage (including truck parking, loading
areas, and similar activities) shall be located out of view from the public
streets and screened as necessary to minimize such views.
      4.   Outdoor Sales and Display:
         a.   All outdoor sales and displays shall be conducted in keeping with
Chapter 4: Commercial Occupancy and Activity Regulations in this Code for
additional regulations.
         b.   Outdoor display of goods for sale, conducted as accessory to
operation of a Gas/ Fueling Station or retail stores shall conform to the
following:
            (1)   Be located and maintained on the property so as to ensure
safe and secure use of properties and not create a nuisance.
            (2)   The area of the permitted outdoor accessory display may not
exceed 10 percent of the indoor gross floor area of the related principal use
on the same premises or 100 square feet (whichever is greater).
            (3)   The permitted outdoor accessory display of goods shall be for
the purpose of direct retail sales only, not for storage. Such goods are a
permitted on a temporary basis and are not allowed indefinitely.
      5.   Outdoor Dining:
         a.   Outdoor Dining is permitted only in the C-1, C-2, C-2a, TCB, and
TCC and TIO districts.
         b.   Outdoor Dining may be authorized through a permit issued by the
Development Administrator upon review of an application submitted to the
Department of Community Development, on a form as approved by the City
Attorney. A final determination regarding authorization shall be based on the
standards of this Subsection (
17.302.M.5.) and as otherwise set out in the City Code, and be provided within
thirty (30) days of receipt of a complete application.
         c.   All Outdoor Dining shall be subject to the following conditions:
            (1)   Outdoor Dining is to be permitted on the same property as and
accessory to the operation of a lawfully permitted restaurant.
            (2)   All tables, chairs and other appurtenances shall be
constructed in such a manner that so as to be easily removed during winter
months and/or if required by the City.
            (3)   The sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be
restricted by the liquor license governing the restaurant, and as otherwise
regulated by
Chapter 5: Liquor Control, of the City Code.
            (4)   The outdoor eating cafe shall not be detrimental to the
health, safety, morals or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
vicinity.
            (5)   Additional parking shall not be required for Outdoor Dining
as regulated by this Subsection (
17.302.M.5.).
            (6)   Outdoor Dining shall be permitted only between the hours of
six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. unless otherwise
approved by City Council.
            (7)   Outdoor Dining permits issued by the City shall be subject to
an annual review and may be revoked at any time on thirty (30) days’ notice.
            (8)   An annual temporary business license in accordance with
Chapter 4: Commercial Occupancy and Activity Regulations of the City Code shall
be required.
            (9)   All Outdoor Dining shall comply with State of Illinois and
DuPage County Health Code regulations;
            (10)   The following design criteria shall be applied to all
Outdoor Dining applications:
               (A)   Canopies that are attached to the building will be
permitted when in conformance with the applicable regulations outlined in this
Code.
               (B)   All outdoor furnishings shall be designed to withstand a
wind pressure of not less than thirty (30) pounds per square foot.
               (C)   Outdoor furnishings materials and their color should be
selected for continuous harmony and aesthetic quality with the adjoining
buildings and streetscape. Materials shall be of durable quality such as
wrought iron; light gauge materials like aluminum and plastics shall be
generally discouraged. Weather resistant wood is allowed only as a secondary
accent material.
               (D)   Colors should be harmonious; brilliant or bright colors
shall be used only for accent.
               (E)   Materials and finishes shall be selected for their
durability and wear as well as for their beauty. The table surface shall be
smooth and easily cleanable. Proper measures shall be taken to correct damage
or decline due to the elements, neglect or abuse.
               (F)   Devices incorporated to separate eating areas from
pedestrian pathways such as fencing or planters, must conform to above
standards of design.
            (11)   Outdoor Dining in a City Right of Way:
               (A)   Shall not reduce the open portion of the public sidewalk
to less than five feet (5') clear of all obstructions (i.e., street lighting,
benches, trees, trash receptacles, etc.);
               (B)   Shall not be permitted until the applicant enters into a
lease of the right-of-way, signs a hold harmless agreement and submits to the
City evidence of general liability insurance and dramshop insurance, in keeping
with City and State requirements.
               (C)   All maintenance, upkeep and repair of any damage to the
public right-of-way associated with the operation of the Outdoor Dining shall
be the responsibility of the associated restaurant owner.
               (D)   Tables to be placed within the City’s rights-of-way shall
not have a surface area greater than nine (9) square feet, be easily removable
and in no way impede safe pedestrian movement. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd.
Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-2024)
Sec. 17.303. Conditions For Specific Land Use.
Certain principal or accessory uses of land may generate potential adverse
impact to be mitigated. The installation and operation of uses and activities
specified in this Section (17.303) shall meet the regulations indicated here,
in addition to any conditions established as part of a Special Use Permit, as
well as all relevant sections of the City Code.
   A.   Drive-thru Facilities.
      1.   Drive-thru facilities shall be allowed as Special Uses in zoning
districts per
Table 4-5 Permitted Use Table of this Chapter.
      2.   All drive-thru facilities shall be subject to the following
additional conditions:
         a.   Outdoor speakers must be modulated so as not to disturb adjacent
or nearby residences.
         b.   Drive-thru facilities shall be designed such that motor vehicle
queuing spaces do not obstruct on site pedestrian and motor vehicle
circulation, or interfere with pedestrian and motor vehicle circulation on
adjacent public streets, sidewalks or properties.
         c.   No drive-thru facilities queuing space shall occupy the same
space as a required off street parking space.
         d.   Drive-thru facilities (drive lanes, ordering and product
distribution functions) shall not be placed in the front of a building.
         e.   Any drive-thru facilities adjacent to a residential zoning
district shall be screened with a minimum of a six (6) foot high Privacy Fence,
landscaping of equal height, or combination thereof.
   B.   Car Washes.
      1.   Car Wash facilities shall be permitted in zoning districts per the
Permitted Use Table (
Table 4-5).
      2.   All car wash facilities shall be subject to the following additional
conditions:
         a.   All washing activities shall be performed in a completely
enclosed building.
         b.   Car washes shall be designed such that motor vehicle queuing
spaces shall not obstruct on site pedestrian and motor vehicle circulation or
interfere with pedestrian and motor vehicle circulation on adjacent public
streets, sidewalks, or properties.
         c.   No car wash queuing space shall occupy the same space as a
required off-street parking space.
         d.   All on site illumination shall be directed away from adjoining
residential lots.
         e.   Any Car Wash adjacent to a residential zoning district shall be
screened with a minimum of a six (6) foot high Privacy Fence, landscaping of
equal height, or combination thereof. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.304. Temporary Structures And Uses.
   The following temporary structures and uses of land shall be allowed in
zoning districts per
Table 4-5 Permitted Use Table of this Chapter, and shall be subject to the
specific regulations and time limits which follow, and to the other applicable
regulations of the district in which it is located, and relevant elements of
the City Code.
   A.   Temporary Structures: No temporary structure shall be built,
established, moved, remodeled, altered or enlarged except as in keeping with
this Section (17.304) and relevant aspects of the City Code.
      1.   Construction trailers and equipment sheds. Construction trailers and
equipment sheds are permitted only on the premises of ongoing construction and
shall conform to the following:
         a.   Are allowed only for the duration of the project while building
permits are in effect and provided that such trailer or equipment shed is
located on the premises undergoing construction.
         b.   No such trailer or shed shall contain sleeping accommodations or
cooking facilities.
         c.   Such use shall be removed upon the lapse of building permits or
issuance of the last occupancy certificate and shall be screened from public
view with a fence or landscaping.
      2.   Portable storage containers shall conform to the following:
         a.   For the purpose of this Section (17.304), a portable storage
container is any structure designed and intended to be moved from one location
to another with or without its own frame and chassis and is intended for the
temporary storage of personal property.
         b.   Only one portable storage container shall be permitted on a lot
at any one time and not for longer than ninety (90) days.
         c.   Extensions of time may be granted by the Development
Administrator in instances where the portable storage container is used in
connection with (re)construction occurring on a lot but in no event shall the
total elapsed time exceed ninety twenty (90) days.
      3.   Temporary Accessory Structures. Only one Temporary Accessory
Structure shall be permitted on a lot at any one time and for no longer than
ninety (90) days per calendar year. This requirement shall not apply to Special
Events regulated by Chapter 19.
   B.   Temporary Uses.
      1.   Christmas tree sales shall conform to the following:
         a.   Shall be located on a lot of not less than 20,000 square feet.
         b.   May operate for a period not to exceed forty (40) days.
         c.   Need not comply with the yard requirements of this Chapter,
provided that no trees shall be displayed within ten feet (10') of any driveway
or street right-of-way or within thirty feet (30') of the intersection of the
rights-of-way of any two (2) streets.
      2.   Circuses and carnivals shall conform to the following:
         a.   Shall not be in operation for a period to exceed one week.
         b.   Shall be installed and maintained so as to not pose a safety
hazard to pedestrians and motorists or interfere with the use and privacy of
adjacent property.
         c.   May not be located in any residential district, except on park,
church, or school property.
         d.   Shall comply with the yard requirements of the Zoning District in
which it is located.
      3.   Garage sales, yard sales, estate sales, house auctions and similar
functions shall conform to the following:
         a.   Shall be confined to private property;
         b.   For properties in a residential zoning district shall not to
exceed a total six (6) days in a calendar year.
      4.   Sidewalk sales shall conform to the following:
         a.   May be conducted only in a Commercial Zoning District.
         b.   May only display or sell goods incidental to the business(es)
located on the same property.
         c.   Shall be conducted in conjunction with a special event or
promotion that is related to or sponsored by the business(es) on the lot and
conducted adjacent to the entrance of said business(es).
         d.   May occur for a period not to exceed four (4) days and not occur
more than three (3) times in a calendar year.
      5.   Subdivision or model home sales offices shall conform to the
following
         a.   May be located in a trailer or in a model home on the premises.
         b.   Must be incidental to a new housing development.
         c.   May not be used for sleeping or cooking purposes.
         d.   May continue only until all dwelling units in the development
have been sold or leased.
         e.   Fences located on lots used for subdivision sales offices and
model homes shall comply with the provisions of Section
17.3010 Fences of this Article, and shall conform to the following:
            (1)   Points of access shall be provided, as required by the
Development Administrator, for emergency personnel, equipment and vehicles
            (2)   Fences used to control and direct sales pedestrian traffic
may exceed the maximum height for fences in the yard in which they are located,
as may be allowed by the Development Administrator, to ensure safety and
security of the premises and visitors.
            (3)   The Development Administrator may require a fence plan for
the sales area prior to issuing a zoning certificate to ensure safety and
security of the premises and visitors.
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-22-030, 11-17-2022; Ord. O-25-011, 3-20-
2025)
Sec. 17.305. Accessory Structures And Uses.
   A.   General Standards: No Accessory Structure or Accessory Use shall be
built, moved or remodeled, established, altered or enlarged unless in keeping
with the requirements of this Section (17.305), this Chapter and the City Code.
Accessory uses are permitted in any zoning district in connection with any
principal use that is permitted within such district.
   B.   Accessory Structures and Uses Limitations and Conditions. Each
Accessory Structure and Accessory Use shall comply with the following:
      1.   No accessory structure or use shall be constructed, occupied or
established on any lot prior to the completion of the principal structure to
which it is accessory.
      2.   No accessory structure or use shall be permitted in any yard unless
it is a permitted yard encroachment as provided in
Table 3-1: Permitted Yard Encroachments.
      3.   Accessory Structures and Uses (including any permitted Outdoor
storage) shall be maintained in such a manner so as to prevent the overgrowth
of weeds, grasses and other obnoxious plant material.
      4.   On a corner lot occupied by a principal residential structure that
is legally nonconforming with respect to the corner side yard setbacks,
accessory uses and structures may be located in said corner side yard provided
they maintain the same setback as the principal residential structure.
      5.   No Accessory Structure or Use, except fences, shall be constructed,
occupied or established on any public utility, drainage, or pipeline easement,
except with the written permission of the City and all utility companies having
rights to use the easement.
      6.   No accessory structure shall be located in any floodplain.
   C.   Permitted Yard Encroachments:
      1.   Accessory Structures and Uses may be permitted in established yards
as indicated with a “P” in
Table 3-1: Permitted Yard Encroachments..
      2.   Accessory structures and uses not listed in
Table 3-1: Permitted Yard Encroachments shall be prohibited as in yards.
Table 3-1: Permitted Yard Encroachments
Structure Front Yard Corner Side Yard Rear Yard Side Yard
Structure                      Front Yard Corner Side Yard Rear Yard Side Yard
Arbors or trellises1                                       P         P
Awnings3                       P          P                P         P
Balconies4                     P          P                P         P
Basketball stanchions5         P          P                P         P
Bay or bow window6            P          P                P
Belt courses, cornices and
ornamental features of the     P          P                P         P
principal building7
Canopies8                      P          P                P
Chimneys of buildings9        P          P                P         P
Decks, open                                                P
Detached garages or carports                               P         P
Driveways and sidewalks15     P          P                P         P
Eaves and gutters10            P          P                P         P
Electric vehicle (EV) charging P          P                P         P
stations
Flagpoles                      P          P                P
Fountains                                                  P         P
Knee and retaining walls       P          P                P         P
Mechanical equipment (air
conditioning condenser,                                    P         P
generator, etc.)
Playground Equipment                                       P
Playhouses, Gazebos, or three                              P         P
season rooms.
Porch11                       P          P
Sheds and storage buildings12                             P
Sports courts, private                                     P
Steps, open13                  P          P                P         P
Swimming pools, private14                                  P
Terraces, patios, outdoor                                  P
fireplaces and barbecues
 
NOTES:
1.   Arbors or trellises -- where trellises are attached to the principal
building, they may also project into front yards and side yards.
2.   Architectural entrance structures - on a lot not less than 2 acres or at
entrance roadways into subdivisions containing 100 or more lots.
3.   Awnings -- may project not more than 3 feet into a required yard.
4.   Balconies -- not to extend more than 3 feet into the yard.
5.   Basketball stanchions -- not closer than 2 feet to the adjacent lot.
6.   Bay or bow window -- projecting no more than 2 feet into a yard.
7.   Belt courses, cornices and ornamental features of the principal building -
- projecting not more than 18 inches into a yard.
8.   Canopies - permitted only when accessor to structures in a multiple-family
district, business or manufacturing district.
9.   Chimneys of buildings -- projecting not more than 24 inches into a yard.
10.   Eaves and gutters -- on principal buildings or attached accessory
buildings, projecting not more than 4 feet into a front and rear yard not more
than 24 inches into a side yard.
11.   Porch - open air and attached to the principal building, projecting not
more than 6 feet beyond the required front and corner side building setback
line.
12.   Sheds and storage buildings -- for garden equipment and household items
as accessory to dwellings.
13.   Steps, open -- necessary for access to and from the dwelling or an
accessory building, steps as access to the lot from the street, and in gardens
or terraces.
14.   Swimming pools, private - where conforming also with other codes or
ordinances of the City.
15.   The maximum sidewalk width for a private sidewalk in a residential
district shall be five feet (5').
   D.   Additional Bulk Regulations for Accessory Structures:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided by this Chapter, all accessory
structures and uses shall observe the bulk regulations of the district in which
they are located, provided that Accessory Structures, including but not limited
to porches, balconies and decks attached to the principal building, shall be
considered part of the principal building and shall comply with the required
yards for the principal structure, unless otherwise allowed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2853.png]
 
Figure 3-2: Yard Requirements for Attached and Detached Accessory Structures
      2.   Detached Accessory Structures, Except Fences, Walls, Driveways, and
Sidewalks:
         a.   Minimum rear and side yard: Detached accessory structures, shall
be located at least five feet (5') from any side or rear lot line, or ten feet
(10') from the centerline of the adjacent alley, if one exists. In no case
shall an accessory structure be permitted in any public utility or drainage or
access easement.
         b.   Maximum structure height: Detached accessory structures shall be
no greater than fifteen feet (15') in height, except as provided otherwise in
this Section (
17.305).
         c.   Minimum building separation:
            (1)   Detached accessory structure may be located closer than ten
feet (10') to the principal structure, except as provided otherwise in this
Subsection (
17.305.D.) or required by Chapter 12: Building Code of this Code.
            (2)   No minimum building separation is required between accessory
structures, except as otherwise required by
Chapter 12: Building Code of this Code.
      3.   Swimming Pools, Hot Tubs, And Outdoor Spas:
         a.   Swimming pools, hot tubs or outdoor spas and any deck attached
thereto, may be located no closer than five feet (5') to any fence or property
line.
         b.   Swimming pools, hot tubs and outdoor spas shall be set back from
all overhead electric distribution, aboveground service utility transformer,
pedestal, meter, and any buried electric distribution or service utility line
as required by
Chapter 12: Building Code of this Code.
         c.   All swimming pools, hot tubs, and outdoor spas, hereinafter
referred to as "pool", shall provide adequate enclosure when not in use or
supervised. Said enclosure shall comply with Building Code regulations as
identified in
Chapter 12: Building Code of this Code.
         d.   In ground pools, hot tubs, and outdoor spas shall count towards
impervious lot coverage, however, above ground swimming pools shall not count
towards lot coverage.
      4.   Detached Garages and Carports: In addition to the other requirements
of this Section
17.305 Accessory Structures and Uses detached garages and carports shall be
permitted in single family residential districts (R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4)
comply with the following:
            Maximum area: One thousand (1,000) square feet or ten percent (10%)
of the lot area, whichever is less.
         a.   Maximum number: One per single-family lot.
         b.   Access: A continuous hard dust free surface shall be provided
between any garage or carport and the adjoining public right-of-way or alley.
         c.   Maximum height: Seventeen feet (17') to the peak of a pitched
roof. Garages with a flat roof shall be no higher than thirteen feet (13').
      5.   Porte-Cocheres and Attached Carports: In addition to the
requirements of this Section
17.305 Accessory Structures and Uses, porte-cocheres and attached carports
shall comply with the following:
         a.   Number: One porte-cochere or carport (attached or detached) shall
be permitted per Zoning Lot.
         b.   Maximum Height: The top of the porte-cochere or attached carport
shall not be higher than the lowest eave line of the wall to which it is
attached.
         c.   Yards: A porte-cochere or attached carport may extend into a
required yard provided that it has no solid wall, other than the wall of the
principal building to which it is attached, and is open to the elements year
round.
         d.   Roof: The roof of a porte-cochere may be used as a deck, but
shall not be enclosed and used as habitable space if the porte-cochere is
located in a required yard.
      6.   Accessory structures (such as tool, garden storage sheds, gazebos,
cabanas and other accessory structures not otherwise specified in Section
17.305 Accessory Structures and Uses shall comply with the following:
         a.   Maximum area: Combined square footage of all accessory
structures, excluding flatwork such as driveways and sidewalks, shall not
exceed twelve percent (12%) of the lot area.
         b.   Maximum number: One such structure may be permitted per Zoning
Lot.
   E.   Bed and breakfasts and short-term rentals:
      1.   Bed and Breakfast. Bed and Breakfast establishments do not include
motels, hotels, boarding houses, or food service establishments.
         a.   The Bed and Breakfast must be residential in nature and comply
with the Home Occupation regulations of this Chapter.
         b.   No more than three (3) guest bedrooms are allowed.
         c.   Guest stays shall not exceed more than ten (10) nights in a 12-
month period.
         d.   Breakfast may be provided to the guests only.
         e.   One (1) off-street, non-tandem parking space is required per
bedroom; in addition to otherwise required off-street parking.
         f.   The operator of the Bed & Breakfast shall live on the premises.
      2.   Short Term Rental/Lodging. (i.e. AirBnB, Vacation Rentals)
         a.   Short term rentals are regulated by Chapter 6 Public Health and
Safety, Article XVI Residential Rental Property.
         b.   The owner must apply for and obtain a residential rental property
registration. .
   F.   Sustainable energy systems:
      1.   Solar Energy Systems (SES): Purpose: The purpose of this Section
(17.305.F.1.) is to encourage safe and efficient use of solar energy and reduce
the use and impact of fossil fuels. The Section (17.305.F.1.) also seeks to
ensure that Solar Energy Systems are compatible in character and appearance
with the principal structure and surrounding area in which they are located.
         a.   General Provision:
            (1)   SES are permitted as an accessory structure mounted to a
principal or other accessory structure.
            (2)   SES shall be subject to the development standards specified
in this Section (17.305.F.1.) and other City Code requirements.
            (3)   Energy produced by SES shall be used on site, except that
surplus energy may be delivered to the power grid.
            (4)   Solar panels may only be located on the roof of a structure
and shall be mounted flush with the slope of the roof.
            (5)   Solar shingles are permitted and shall be integral to the
roof of the structure on which they are installed.
            (6)   Solar collection devices may not extend beyond the roof edge
or the exterior perimeter of a structure.
            (7)   Solar collection devices may not be located on the vertical
portion of a mansard roof.
            (8)   SES shall be subject to the yard, height and any other bulk
requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
            (9)   Ground mounted solar panels or SES are prohibited.
         b.   Appearance and Materials: Solar energy systems shall be neutral
in color and generally matching the roof color of the principal structure. All
such devices shall have the following characteristics:
            (1)   Not be plastic or other non-UV stable material.
            (2)   Include frames, where applicable, of anodized aluminum or
painted steel.
            (3)   Where devices are encased with glass, the glass shall be
nonreflective tempered glass.
            (4)   Solar panels must be placed so that concentrated solar
radiation or glare is not directed onto any nearby properties or roadways.
         c.   Height: SES shall be subject to the following height
requirements:
            (1)   SES shall not exceed the maximum structure height
requirements for the district in which they are located.
            (2)   SES on sloped roofs shall not exceed the highest point of
roof on which they are mounted.
            (3)   SES located on sloped roof buildings shall not extend beyond
one foot (1') above the roof surface at any point in residential zoning
districts and fifteen inches (15") for all other zoning districts.
            (4)   SES located on flat roofed buildings shall not extend beyond
two feet (2') in overall height above the roof on which they are mounted in
residential zoning districts or eight feet (8') in all other districts. In no
case shall solar collection devises extend above the parapet wall of the
structure.
      2.   Wind Energy Systems (WES):
         a.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section (17.305.F.2.) is to
encourage safe and efficient use of wind energy and reduce the use and impact
of fossil fuels. The Section (17.305.F.2.) also seeks to ensure that Wind
Energy Systems are compatible in character and appearance with the principal
structure and surrounding area in which they are located.
         b.   General Provisions: Wind energy systems are permitted as an
accessory structure to a principal Permitted or Special Use subject to the
standards of this Section (17.305.F.2.) on and the City Code.
         c.   No more than one WES is permitted per residential zoning lot.
         d.   No more than one WES is permitted per Commercial or Industrially
zoned properties, unless approved as a Special Use.
         e.   WES may be permitted on a Commercial or Industrially zoned
property adjacent to a residential zoning lot only upon approval by as a
Special Use.
         f.   WES structures shall comply with all regulations of the City Code
regarding their construction, design, operation and maintenance.
         g.   Energy produced by WES shall be used on site, except that surplus
energy may be delivered to the power grid.
         h.   WES shall be designed to withstand a minimum wind velocity of one
hundred (100) miles per hour, with an impact pressure of forty (40) pounds per
square foot.
         i.   As part of a building permit submitted for a WES, a statement and
evidence shall be provided by the applicant that the proposed WES will not
adversely impact adjacent properties.
         j.   In no event shall the noise level produced by a WES continuously
exceed sixty-five (65) decibels as measured at the property line.
         k.   No WES shall cause electromagnetic degradation in performance of
other electromagnetic radiators, receptors, or generators of quality and proper
design. The City may revoke any permit for a WES system should electromagnetic
interference from the WES be evident and cannot be corrected.
         l.   WES shall not be artificially lighted, except to the extent
required by the FAA or other applicable government authority.
         m.   All wind turbines shall have an automatic braking, governing or
feathering system to prevent uncontrolled rotation, over speeding and excessive
pressure on the tower structure, rotor blades and turbine components.
         n.   Abandonment: If a WES is inoperable or abandoned for a period of
six (6) consecutive months; the owner may be notified by the City that the
energy system must either be repaired or removed within an established cure
period.
         o.   Rooftop mounted WES:
            (1)   Rooftop mounted WES shall be set back at least twenty feet
(20') from front or exterior building lines, and at least ten feet (10') from
side building lines. Setbacks shall be measured to the widest point of blade
rotation or to the side of the WES, whichever is greater.
            (2)   Rooftop mounted WES shall be limited to a height of no more
than fifteen feet (15') above the roof peak or top of a parapet wall, whichever
is greater. Total height shall be measured from the highest point of blade
rotation or the highest point of the WES, whichever is greater.
         p.   Ground mounted WES:
            (1)   Ground mounted WES shall be allowed only in the Industrial
zoning district, after having received approval by as a Special Use.
            (2)   Ground mounted WES shall be permitted only in a rear yard.
         q.   The WES tower or any associated structure shall comply with the
minimum setback requirements of the zoning district in which the WES is located
or be set back a distance equal to 1.1 times the total height of the structure
from any property line, whichever distance is greater. Total structure height
shall be measured from the highest point of blade rotation to the ground.
         r.   A WES tower shall be set back a minimum of twenty feet (20') from
any principal structure on the property.
         s.   The maximum permissible height of a WES tower shall not exceed
seventy feet (70').
         t.   Rotor blades or airfoils must maintain at least twelve feet (12')
of clearance between their lowest point of rotation and the ground.
         u.   All climbing apparatus affixed to a WES tower shall terminate
twelve feet (12') short of ground level.
         v.   All WES facilities shall be surrounded by a six foot (6') high
safety fence.
         w.   All WEC towers shall be constructed with an approved concrete
foundation.
      3.   Electric Vehicle Charging Stations (EVCS):
         a.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section (
17.305.F.3.) is to encourage safe and efficient use of electric vehicles in the
City of Wood Dale to reduce the use and impact of fossil fuels. The below
provisions also seek to ensure the appearance of Electric Vehicle Charging
Stations are compatible with the character of the principal structure and
surrounding neighborhood.
         b.   General Provisions: Electric vehicle charging stations are
permitted as an accessory structure to a principal Permitted or Special Use
subject to the provisions of Section (
17.305) of the City Code.
         c.   Location: Electric vehicle charging station equipment shall not
block any public right-of-way. If located within a parking lot, electric
vehicle charging stations shall not impede the movement or site access for
motor vehicles, pedestrians, bicyclists, or any other road user.
         d.   Signage: Signage shall be regulated by Sec.
13.309.
         e.   Parking: Charging station spaces reserved only tor electric
vehicles may be included in the overall calculation of minimum parking spaces
required for the primary use by this Chapter, provided that such charging
station spaces do not:
            (1)   Account for more than 10% of the minimum required number of
on-site parking spaces. Subject to the conditions of this Article, additional
charging station spaces may be constructed but they will not count towards the
minimum parking requirement.
            (2)   Reduce the dimensions of adjoining spaces or the parking
aisle or reduce the number of available spaces below the minimum required by
Article V Off Street Parking and Loading.
            (3)   Accessibility: If any EV charging stations are constructed in
non-single family residential districts, a minimum of one accessible charging
station with an adjacent accessible parking space shall be installed per
development in compliance with all local, state, and federal accessibility
requirements. Accessible charging stations are not required to be designated
tor exclusive use of persons with disabilities, unless required to meet the
overall minimum number accessible parking spaces per [Sec.
17.502.G] Accessible Parking.
         f.   Screening: Charging station equipment must be screened from
adjacent properties and the right-of-way with native ornamental grasses that
are sufficiently tall and dense, as feasible. Documentation providing the
rationale tor screening that is not feasible shall be submitted by the
installer and approved by the Director of Community Development.
         g.   Pavement Marking: Lettering that states "EV Charging" or "EV
Charging Only" and any marking to delineate accessible spaces, shall be the
only pavement marking permitted to identify charging station spaces.
         h..   Equipment Protection: All equipment shall be protected via
curbing, bollards, or similar protective structure or device.
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-2024; Ord. O-25-11, 3-20-
2025)
Sec. 17.306. Home Based Businesses.
   A.   Purpose. Home based businesses are accessory to principal residential
uses and a necessary and desirable part of the City. The regulations in this
Section (17.306) seek to avoid deleterious effects of such activities on the
value, use and enjoyment of adjoining property and the overall neighborhood by:
      1.   Ensuring compatibility of home-based businesses with nearly
residences;
      2.   Maintaining and preserving neighborhood character;
      3.   Promoting the efficient use of public services and facilities so to
be in keeping with those common to a residential area; and
      4.   Preventing generation of vehicular or pedestrian traffic greater and
more impactful than generally expected in a residential neighborhood.
   B.    Standards for Operating Home Based Businesses. In addition to meeting
all applicable standards of the Zoning District in which it is located and
other elements of the City Code, a home based business shall comply with the
following:
      1.   Primary Residence: The owner or operator of a home-based business
shall be a full-time resident of the dwelling unit.
      2.   Employees:
         a.   No more than two (2) employees who are not domiciled in the
dwelling unit where a home based business is conducted shall be present at the
dwelling in connection with, or otherwise participate in the operation of a
home based business at any one time.
         b.    The term “employees” shall not include persons domiciled in the
dwelling unit where such a home based business is conducted.
         c.   The home based business location may not be used for employees to
congregate, park vehicles, or transfer vehicles in order to conduct business at
a different location.
      3.   Area Limitation: No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the area
of the principal dwelling unit and any accessory structures shall be devoted to
the home based business.
      4.   Exterior Appearance: There shall be no activity, structure, signs,
or other exterior evidence that the dwelling unit is being used for any
nonresidential purpose in order to conduct the home based business.
      5.   Equipment: No mechanical or electrical equipment may be used except
such types as are customary for purely domestic or household or used in a
manner to indicate that the structure is being used for a nonresidential
purpose. Furthermore, no equipment which creates noise vibration, glare, fumes,
odors or electrical interference beyond what normally occurs in the applicable
zoning district shall be used in such home based business.
      6.   Outside Storage: There shall be no storage outside a principal
building or accessory structure of equipment, materials or products used in the
home based business.
      7.   Vehicle Storage: All commercial vehicles must be stored in
accordance with provisions for Section
17.505 Commercial and Recreational Vehicle Parking Regulations in of this
Chapter.
      8.   Outdoor Business Operations: The home based business shall be
conducted entirely within the principal residential building or in a private
garage accessory thereto.
      9.   Character: The home based business shall be conducted in a manner
which does not cause the premises to differ from its residential character
either by use of colors, materials, lighting, or the emission of sounds,
noises, or vibrations.
      10.   Traffic Impact: The home based business shall not have an adverse
effect on the neighborhood by creating congestion on or deterioration of public
streets.
      11.   Customer Sales and Pick Up: Direct sales of products produced in
relation to the home based business from the dwelling unit are prohibited.
      12.   Displays: No article or stock in trade shall be displayed such that
it is visible from the exterior of the dwelling unit.
      13.   Parking: The conduct of the home based business shall not require
more vehicle parking space than exists on the residential driveway on the
property, or on assigned parking spaces serving the dwelling unit.
      14.   Human/Animal Care Services: home based business involving human or
animal care services shall be limited to no more than one client at a time,
unless otherwise specified in this Chapter. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.307. Adult Entertainment Establishments.
In addition to the requirements of Section
4.308 and other applicable elements of the City Code, all Adult Entertainment
Establishments shall be subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   No adult use shall be allowed within 500 feet of another existing adult
use.
   B.   No adult use shall be located within 1,000 feet of any zoning district
which is zoned for a residential use.
   C.   No adult use shall be located within 1,000 feet of a preexisting school
or place of worship.
   D.   No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits the
observation of any materials depicting, describing or relating to “specified
anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”, from any public way. This
shall apply to any display, decoration, sign, show window or other opening.
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.308. Cannabis. 
   A.   Recreational cannabis dispensaries
      1.   Purpose and Applicability: It is the intent and purpose of this
Section
17.308.A to provide regulations regarding the dispensing of adult-use cannabis
occurring within the corporate limits of the City of Wood Dale. Such facilities
shall comply with all regulations provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act (P.A. 101-0027) (Act), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations provided below. In the
event that the Act is amended, the more restrictive of the state or local
regulations shall apply.
      2.   Recreational cannabis dispensaries shall be subject to the following
regulations:
         a.   Dispensaries may not conduct any sales or distribution of
cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
         b.   No dispensaries shall be located, established, maintained, or
operated on property zoned for residential use, in a house, apartment, or
condominium, or on any lot that has a property line within 1,000 feet of the
property line of any pre-existing school.
         c.   All product storage, display, and sales must be conducted inside
an enclosed building.
         d.   Drive-through and window sales are prohibited.
         e.   No cannabis odor shall be detectable outside of any Dispensary.
         f.   Display of cannabis products or paraphernalia must not be visible
from sidewalks, public or private rights-of-way, or from a lot other than the
lot on which the dispensary is located.
         g.   The number of dispensaries shall be limited through the issuance
of the Commercial Occupancy Certificate, per Chapter 4 of the Municipal Code.
         h.   Applicants must submit a complete copy of their license
application and all plans submitted to the State of Illinois, or any agency
thereof, as part of their application. Before issuance of a Certificate of
Commercial Occupancy or otherwise opening to the public, dispensaries must
provide a copy of their license to operate as a Recreational Cannabis
Dispensary from the appropriate state agency.
         i.   Consumption of cannabis products is prohibited on dispensary
premises.
         j.   There shall be no more than one public entrance to the business.
         k.   Signage shall be regulated by Sec. 13.602.B.11.
         l.   Cannabis dispensing facilities shall only operate between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         m.   An operation plan must be submitted. An operation plan must
include, but is not limited to, the security measures that will be provided
such as exterior lighting, security cameras, and hours of operation.
   B.   Recreational cannabis cultivation centers, cannabis craft growers,
cannabis infusers, cannabis transporters, cannabis processers, and on-premises
cannabis consumption establishments are prohibited.
   C.   Medical cannabis dispensaries.
      1.   Purpose and Applicability: It is the intent and purpose of this
Section 17.308.C to provide regulations regarding the dispensing of medical
cannabis occurring within the corporate limits of the City of Wood Dale. Such
facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in the Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Program Act (P.A. 101-363), as it may be amended from time-
to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations provided
below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more restrictive of the state
or local regulations shall apply.
      2.   Medical cannabis dispensaries shall be subject to the following
regulations:
         a.   Compliance with state law and regulations. Medical cannabis
dispensing facilities shall comply with the requirements of the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (P.A. 101-363, et seq.) and all regulations
promulgated thereunder, as may be amended from time to time.
         b.   All medical cannabis dispensaries shall also meet the regulations
for recreational cannabis dispensaries listed in Sec. 17.308.A.
   D.   Medical Cannabis Cultivation Centers.
      1.   In determining the compliance of a proposed medical cannabis
cultivation center, the following components of the medical cannabis
cultivation center shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the
circumstances affecting the particular property in the context of the existing
and intended future use of properties in the vicinity of the proposed use:
      2.   The issuance or absence of issuance of a valid registration as a
medical cannabis cultivation center by the Illinois Department of Agriculture
to the proposed medical cannabis cultivation center.
      3.   The existence, if any, of a medical cannabis cultivation center
located within the Illinois State Police District within which the City of Wood
Dale is located.
      4.   The existence, if any, of a medical cannabis cultivation center
located within the City of Wood Dale.
      5.   Compliance by the medical cannabis cultivation center with the
following restrictions:
         a.   Compliance with state law and regulations. Medical cannabis
cultivation centers shall comply with the requirements of the Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act (Public Act 098-0122) and all regulations
promulgated thereunder, as may be amended from time to time.
         b.   Single-use property. Medical cannabis cultivation centers shall
not be established in multiple use or multi-tenant properties or on a property
that shares parking with other uses.
         c.   Minimum distance from incompatible uses. No medical cannabis
cultivation center shall be located, established, maintained, or operated on
any lot that has a property line within 2,500 feet of the property line of any
of the following uses:
            (1)   A pre-existing public or private preschool or elementary or
secondary school; or
            (2)   A pre-existing day care center, day care home, group day care
home or part day childcare facility.
         d.   Measurement. For the purposes of this Section (17.308.B.),
distances shall be measured linearly in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures or objects, from the nearest point on the property line
of the lot on which the medical cannabis cultivation center is located to the
nearest point on a property line of a use listed in Subsection (17.308.B.4.c.),
above.
         e.   Retail sales prohibited. Medical cannabis cultivation centers
shall not conduct any retail sales.
         f.   An operation plan must be submitted. An operation plan must
include, but is not limited to, the security measures that will be provided
such as exterior lighting, security cameras, and hours of operation.
         g.   Drive-through facilities are prohibited.
         h.   No outdoor, window, or on-site media display of merchandise and/
or products related to a cultivation center allowed.
         i.   No exterior signage that includes the words “marijuana,”
“cannabis,” or any related word or symbol. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord.
O-24-002, 2-15-2024)
Sec. 17.309. Community Residence.
   A.   Licensure. Where a Community Residence or a Community Residence’s
operator is required to be licensed or certified by a State of Illinois agency
or department, the applicant shall: a) provide the City proof of such licensure
or certification; and b) maintain at all times a current and valid license or
certificate. The Development Administrator may revoke a certificate of
occupancy for a Community Residence if its license or certification is revoked.
A Community Residence that is not licensed or certified by the State of
Illinois may only be established if a Special Use permit is approved in
accordance with this Chapter.
   B.   Occupancy. Full time staff shall be included when determining the
number of individuals that may occupy a Community Residence pursuant to the
building code. For the purposes of this Section (17.309), “full time staff”
shall mean staff that occupies the residence overnight.
   C.   Location. No Community Residence may be located within 660 feet of an
existing or approved Community Residence, as measure from lot line to lot line,
except when a Special Use permit is approved in accordance with this Chapter.
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.3010. Fences.
   A.    Fence Requirements:
      1.   Applicability. All fences must be erected and maintained in
conformance with the requirements of this Chapter and other applicable elements
of the Wood Dale City Code.
      2.   Permits Required. A permit issued by the Development Administrator
is required to erect or alter any fence within the City.
      3.   Existing Fencing. Fences legally constructed prior to the effective
date of this Chapter, shall be allowed to continue; provided, however, that
replacement of fencing shall conform to provisions of this Chapter.
      4.   Location: Fences shall be located entirely on the lot of the
property owner constructing the fence.
      5.   Placement: The finished side of the fence must face out from the
property on which it is constructed.
      6.   Surface Drainage: No fence may be constructed or maintained in such
a manner as to obstruct, inhibit, impair or otherwise alter overland surface
drainage across any adjoining lot.
      7.   Easements: Fences may be located on public utility and drainage
easements, provided they are raised at least six inches (6") above grade in the
case of drainage easements to prevent obstruction to the flow of water. The
City and the public utility companies having rights to use said easement shall
have the right to remove said fence to construct, repair or maintain utility
facilities with no obligation to replace or restore said fence, unless so
stated in the governing easement document. It shall be the obligation of the
property owner to locate all utilities prior to constructing a fence.
      8.   Back-to-Back Fences. If an existing fence is located on a common
property line, a new fence installed along the area of that property line shall
be located within one foot off that property line, entirely on the property for
which the new fence is being installed.
      9.   Exemptions: The provisions of this Section (17.3010) shall not apply
to the following:
         a.   Fences constructed for the safety of children on park or school
playgrounds.
         b.   Planting material used in the nature of a fence, subject to the
Sight Triangle, as described in Section
17.302.E. of this Article.
         c.   Fences constructed at public utility locations owned and operated
by governmental agencies. Such fences shall require issuance of a building
permit and shall have the proposed location and materials approved by the
Development Administrator to evaluate safety prior to installation.
      10.   Chain link fences shall not be located in or abutting a Front Yard
or a Corner Side Yard, except that a chain link fence may be located in a front
or side yard provided they are at or behind a line extending from the front
building line of the principal structure.
      11.   No fences are allowed in Front Yards or Corner Side Yards except
for Decorative Fences no greater than three feet (3') in height.
      12.   Fence Inserts: Privacy insert strips may be used in chain link
fences provided all of the inserts are of the same color and the inserts are
kept in good repair and appearance.
      13.   Knee Walls and Retaining Walls may be allowed as permitted
encroachments in Front Yards per Section
17.305.C.
      14.   Fencing regulations are specified for Outdoor Storage in Section
17.302.M.3. and/or Trash Enclosures in Section
17.302.M.2.
   B.   Permitted Fences.
      1.   Categories: For the purpose of this Section, there shall be two (2)
categories of permitted fences in Wood Dale: Decorative (Open) and Privacy
(Solid). Said fences shall be constructed as directed by the standards of this
Section, the Fence Placement Diagram (Figure 3-3) and the Fence Height Table
(Table 3-2)
      2.   Requirements for All Fences:
         a.   All fences shall be located at or behind a line extending from
the front wall of the principal structure (see Figure 3-3: Fence Placement
Diagram), unless otherwise specified in this Chapter.
         b.   Decorative Fences up to three feet (3') in height above the
ground level shall be allowed in any yard of any zoning district.
      3.   Fences allowed in R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, RG Districts, and residential
uses in other Districts:
         a.   Decorative and Privacy Fences not exceeding six feet (6') in
height above the ground level where installed shall be allowed at or behind a
line extending from the front wall of the principal structure., in Rear Yards,
Side Yards, and Corner Side Yards only, unless otherwise specified in this
chapter.
         b.   Decorative or Privacy Fences not exceeding six feet (6') in
height above the ground level where installed may be located in a Corner Side
Yard only when:
            (1)   In the case of a Corner Side Yard abutting the Corner Side
Yard of an adjacent corner lot property, the fence may extend from the rear
wall of the principal structure directly to the Corner Side property line; or
         (2)   In the case of a Corner Side Yard abutting the Front Yard of an
adjacent property, the fence may extend from the rear of the principal
structure directly to the Rear Lot Line of the property, but may not extend
beyond the front wall of a principal structure on the adjacent property.
      4.   Fences in C-1, C-2, C-2a, C-3 and I-1 Districts, and nonresidential
uses in other Districts: Decorative and Privacy Fences not exceeding eight feet
(8') in height above the ground level where installed shall be allowed at or
behind a line extending from the front wall of the principal structure in Rear
Yards and Side Yards only.
 
Fence Height - Table 3-2
                     Decorative Fence     Decorative Fence Privacy Fence Height
Zoning District/Use  Height in front yard Height (ft)      (ft)
                     (ft)
R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
RG Districts, and    3 ft.                6 ft.            6 ft.
residential uses in
other Districts
C-1, C-2, C-2a, C-
3 and I-1 Districts,
and nonresidential   3 ft.                8 ft.            8 ft.
uses in other
Districts
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3529.png]
 
Figure 3-3: Fence Placement Diagram
   C.   Prohibited Fences.
      1.   Fences and related appurtenances that impair public safety,
including but not limited to, interfering with or obstructing visibility for
persons using any streets, sidewalks or driveways.
      2.   Fences located within the Sight Triangle, as described in Section
17.302.E. of this Article.
      3.   Fences constructed in whole or in part of spikes, glass, protruding
nails, or other sharp or pointed material of any kind.
      4.   Chain link fences with barbed ends up.
      5.   Snow fences, except for the exclusive control of windblown snow
between November 1 and March 31 and erected by State or local highway
authorities, or used exclusively for protection devices at excavation sites.
      6.   Fences constructed of less than 9-gauge wire.
      7.   Fences composed in whole or part of barbed wire or razor wire, or
with any similar materials designated to cause injury to persons. (EXCEPTIONS:
In protection of industrial property barbed wire is allowed but, must be at
least six feet above the existing grade and extend inward of property.
      8.   Electric fences or fences charged with electrical current.
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-22-030, 11-17-2022; Ord. O-25-11, 3-20-
2025)
Sec. 17.3011. Collection Boxes.
   A.   Purpose. The City has experienced a proliferation of collection
containers and their placement in required parking spaces, required landscaped
areas, and residential zoning districts, often without the property owner’s
permission. The proliferation of these containers has contributed to visual
clutter, blight due to graffiti and poor maintenance, and the accumulation of
debris and excess items outside of the collection containers. They can also
interfere with the proper management of the City’s waste stream. The purpose of
these regulations is to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the public,
and protect the property rights of the owners of the parcels on which the
collection containers are located, by providing minimum blight-related
performance standards for the operation of collection containers, including
establishing criteria to ensure that: (1) material is not allowed to accumulate
outside of the collection containers, (2) the collection containers remain free
of graffiti and blight, (3) the collection containers are maintained in
sanitary conditions, (4) the collection containers are not placed without the
approval of property owners, and (5) that contact information is readily
available so that the operators can be contacted if there are any blight-
related questions or concerns. This Section (17.3011) regulates the size,
number, placement, installation and maintenance of collection containers, as is
necessary to accomplish the foregoing purposes.
   B.   Permit Required; exceptions.
      1.   It is unlawful to place, operate, maintain or allow a collection
container on any real property unless the property owner and operator of the
collection container first obtains a permit from the City.
      2.   An application for a collection container will be processed as
ministerial action in accordance with this Section. The Development
Administrator will be the decision maker, subject to this Chapter’s appeal
process.
   C.   Application.
      1.   The permit application will be made on a form provided by the
Development Administrator, and include:
         a.   The signatures of the property owner and the operator of the
collection container, acknowledging that they will be equally responsible for
compliance with all applicable laws and conditions related to the collection
containers for which they are seeking approval;
         b.   A non-refundable application fee as listed in the Master Fee
Schedule;
         c.   The name, address, email, website (if available) and telephone
number of the operator of the collection container and property owner on which
the collection container is to be located, including 24-hour contact
information;
         d.   A vicinity map showing:
            (1)   The proposed location of the collection container;
            (2)   The distance between the proposed location and all existing
collection containers within 500 feet of the proposed location, as measured
from lot line to lot line; and
            (3)   The distance between the proposed location and all
residentially-zoned property within 500 feet of the proposed location, as
measured from lot line to lot line.
         e.   Photographs of the location and adjacent properties;
         f.   A site plan containing;
            (1)   Location and dimensions of all parcel boundaries;
            (2)   Location of all buildings;
            (3)   Proposed collection container location;
            (4)   Distance between the proposed collection container and parcel
lines and buildings; and
            (5)   Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
driveways, garages, carports, parking spaces, maneuvering aisles, pavement and
striping/marking;
         g.   Elevations showing the appearance, materials, and dimensions of
the collection container, including the information required in this Section to
be placed on the collection container and notice sign;
         h.   A description and/or diagram of the proposed locking mechanism of
the collection container;
         i.   A maintenance plan (including graffiti removal, pick-up schedule,
and litter and trash removal on and around the collection container); and
         j.   Any other information regarding time, place, and manner of the
collection container’s operation, placement, and maintenance that is reasonably
necessary to evaluate the proposal’s consistency with the requirements of this
Section.
      2.   Permit expiration and renewal. A permit issued under this Section
will expire and become null and void annually on the anniversary of its date of
issuance, unless renewed prior to its expiration. An application for renewal
must be submitted prior to the expiration of the permit on a form provided by
the zoning administrator, and include:
         a.   The signatures of the property owner and the operator of the
collection container, acknowledging that they will be equally responsible for
compliance with all applicable laws and conditions related to the collection
containers for which they are seeking approval;
         b.   A non-refundable application fee in an amount as listed in the
Master Fee Schedule;
         c.   Photographs of the location and adjacent properties taken within
ten days of the submittal of the renewal application;
         d.   A detailed description of any changes to the information
submitted on the previous application; and
         e.   Any other information regarding time, place, and manner of the
collection container’s operation, placement, and maintenance that is reasonably
necessary to evaluate the proposal’s consistency with the requirements of this
Section.
   D.   Decision on application.
      1.   The Development Administrator will approve or deny an application
within 60 days of the receipt of a completed application. If the Development
Administrator fails to take action on the application within the required 60
days, the application shall be deemed approved.
      2.   The Development Administrator will approve the application if all of
the following are true; otherwise the Development Administrator may deny the
application:
         a.   The applicant has submitted a complete, fully executed and
accurate application accompanied by the applicable fee;
         b.   The property on which the collection container is to be located
has been free of graffiti, as defined by the City of Wood Dale Municipal Code,
for at least six months prior to the submission of the application, as
evidenced by City records for the property;
         c.   The property on which the collection container is to be located
has been free of any conditions constituting a nuisance, as defined by the City
of Wood Dale Municipal Code, for at least six months prior to submission of the
application, as evidenced by City records for the property;
         d.   The applicant is neither currently in violation of, nor has not
been found in violation of this Section within one year prior to submission of
the application; and
         e.   The application will be in compliance with all of the applicable
provisions of this Section.
            (1)   The Development Administrator will mail written notice to the
applicant of the Development Administrator’s decision by First Class United
States mail, addressed to the applicant at the address provided on the
application. If the application is denied, or approved subject to conditions,
the notice will set forth the reasons for the denial or conditions, as well as
the facts supporting the Development Administrator’ reasons.
            (2)   The decision of the Development Administrator will be final,
subject to this Chapter’s appeal provisions.
   E.   Standards.
      1.   Location.
         a.   No collection container may be located within 500 feet from any
other collection container, as measured from lot line to lot line.
         b.   No collection container may be located in a residential zoning
district.
         c.   No collection container may be located within 500 feet of a
parcel in a residential zoning district, as measured from lot line to lot line.
         d.   No collection container will be located on or within:
            (1)   The public right-of-way, including sidewalks;
            (2)   Area designated for landscaping;
         e.   No collection container will be located in or block or impede
access to any:
            (1)   Required parking or driveway areas;
            (2)   Pedestrian routes;
            (3)   Emergency vehicle routes;
            (4)   Building ingress and egress;
            (5)   Required disabled access routes;
            (6)   Required or recorded easements;
            (7)   Trash enclosure areas or access to trash bins or trash
enclosures; or
            (8)   Any place that would impede the functioning of exhaust,
ventilation, or fire extinguishing systems.
         f.   No more than one collection container will be located on any
individual zoning lot.
         g.   No collection container will be located within the Site Triangle
of any intersection, or within any required yard or setback.
      2.   Physical attributes.
         a.   All collection containers must:
            (1)   Be fabricated of durable and waterproof materials;
            (2)   Be placed on a level impervious surface;
            (3)   Have a tamper-resistant locking mechanism for all collection
openings;
            (4)   Not be electrically or hydraulically powered or otherwise
mechanized; and
            (5)   Not be considered a fixture of the site or an improvement to
real property.
         b.   Collection containers may not exceed six and one-half-feet in
height, five feet in width and five feet in depth.
         c.   Signage on collection containers will not exceed five-inch letter
height. Collection containers must have the following information conspicuously
displayed in at least two-inch type visible from the front of the collection
container:
            (1)   The name, address, 24-hour telephone number, and, if
available, the Internet Web address, and email address of the permittee, the
operator of the collection container, and the owner of the real property;
            (2)   The type of material that may be deposited; and
            (3).   A notice stating that it is strictly prohibited to leave any
materials outside the collection container.
      3.   Maintenance and operation.
         a.   No overflow collection items, litter, debris or dumped materials
will be allowed to accumulate within 20 feet of any collection container.
         b.   Collection containers will be maintained at all times in good
working order, and at all times free from graffiti, removed or damaged signs
and notifications, peeling paint, rust, and broken collection operating
mechanisms.
         c.   Collection containers will be serviced not less than weekly
between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on weekdays and 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on
weekends. This servicing includes maintenance of the container, the removal of
collected materials, and removal of any graffiti, litter, or nuisance
conditions as defined in this Code.
         d.   The operator will maintain an active email address and a 24-hour
telephone service with recording capability for the public to register
complaints.
         e.   It is strictly prohibited to allow a collection container to be
used for solid waste or hazardous materials.
      4.   Removal; notice.
         a.   The placement, maintenance, or site-hosting of a collection
container(s) in violation of any applicable requirements set forth in this
Section is hereby declared a nuisance.
         b.   In addition to the penalties provided in Article 11 of this
Chapter and provided by other law, the City may further abate such nuisance by
removing and impounding the nuisance collection containers after providing
reasonable notice to the permittee, operator of the nuisance collection
container, and owner of the real property, by affixing signage on the nuisance
collection container. The dated notice will state that the nuisance collection
container will be removed and impounded within seven days of the posting of the
notice, unless the nuisance conditions are fully corrected to the satisfaction
of the zoning administrator in strict accordance with the requirements of this
Section.
         c.   Following impoundment, the Development Administrator or his/her
designee will provide written notice to any reasonably ascertainable permittee,
owner of the nuisance collection container, and owner of the real property
that:
            (1)   The collection container has been impounded; and
            (2)   If the collection container is not claimed within 180 days of
impoundment, the City will be authorized to dispose of the collection container
and its contents in accordance with the Law Enforcement Disposition of Property
Act, 765 ILCS 1030/3, or in any other lawful manner.
         d.   The permittee, the owner of the nuisance collection container,
and the owner of the real property hosting the nuisance collection container
are jointly and severally liable for the reasonable costs of removal, storage,
and disposal incurred by the City.
         e.   The impounded collection container can be recovered only after
the violation is corrected to the satisfaction of the zoning administrator in
strict accordance with the requirements of this Section, all outstanding final
code violation fines, if any, have been paid in full, and a $150.00
administrative processing fee is paid in full.
      5.   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this Section shall be
subject to a penalty as provided in Article 11 of this Chapter. Each day that a
violation exists shall be considered a separate violation of this Chapter.
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.3012. Telecommunications.
   A.   Personal Wireless Facilities.
      1.   Special Use Permit Required: No person shall establish, construct,
maintain, or operate a personal wireless service facility other than on
municipal owned property without first obtaining a Special Use permit
authorized and issued by the City Council in accordance with the standards and
procedures set forth in this Chapter.
      2.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section (17.3012) is to establish a
comprehensive set of regulations pertaining to the location, siting,
development, design and permitting of wireless communications facilities for
all districts in the City in order to:
         a.   Facilitate the development of a wireless communications
infrastructure in the City for commercial, public and emergency uses;
         b.   Encourage the collocation of wireless communications facilities;
         c.   Encourage users of wireless communications facilities to
configure them in a manner which minimizes the adverse visual impact of such
facilities;
         d.   Enhance the ability of the providers of wireless communications
services to provide such services to the community quickly, efficiently, and
effectively;
         e.   Establish the rules and procedures for approving zoning
applications for wireless communication facilities; and
         f.   Minimize the total number of wireless communication facilities in
the City.
      3.   Scope: The provisions of this Section (17.3012) shall apply to all
personal wireless service facilities, whether such facilities are used as a
principal use or as an accessory use unless otherwise exempted from these
regulations.
         a.   Preexisting Towers Or Antennas: Towers and antennas existing on
the date this Section (17.3012) is adopted shall not be required to meet the
requirements of this Chapter other than the requirements of Subsections
17.3012.A.5.e., 17.3012.A.5.f., 17.3012.A.5.g.
         b.   AM Array: For purposes of implementing this Chapter, an AM array,
consisting of one or more towers united and supporting a ground system which
functions as one AM broadcasting antenna, shall be considered one tower.
Measurements for setbacks and separation distances shall be measured from the
outer perimeter of the towers including the AM array. Additional towers may be
added within the perimeter of the AM array by right.
      4.   Exemptions: The following uses and activities are exempt from the
regulations of this Section (17.3012):
Satellite dishes forty inches (40") or less in diameter or diagonal
measurement.
         a.   Existing towers and antennas and any repair, reconstruction, or
maintenance of these facilities which do not create a significant change in
visual impact.
         b.   Any tower or installation of any antenna which is owned and
operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator as part of the
amateur radio service, citizens band radio, or is used exclusively for receive-
only antennas.
         c.   Antennas and equipment and other apparatus completely located
within an existing structure whose purpose is to enhance or facilitate
communication function of other structures on the site.
         d.   Personal wireless service facilities located on property owned,
leased or otherwise controlled by the City provided a lease or license
authorizing such personal wireless service facilities has been approved by the
City Council.
         e.   Antenna not attached to a tower and incorporating stealth design
amateur radio operation/receive-only antennas. This Chapter shall not govern
any towers or the installation of any antenna that is fifty (50) or less feet
in height and is owned and operated by a federally licensed amateur radio
station operator or is used exclusively for receive-only antennas. No receive-
only antenna shall exceed the highest point on the nearest residential rooftop
of a dwelling by more than ten feet (10').
      5.   Operational Standards.
         a.   Equipment: Mobile or immobile equipment not used in direct
support of a personal wireless service facility shall not be stored or parked
on the site of a personal wireless service facility unless repairs to such
facility are being made. Backup generators shall be operated only during power
outages and for testing and maintenance purposes. Noise attenuation measures
shall be included to reduce noise levels. Testing and maintenance of generators
shall occur only on weekdays between the hours of eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and
five o’clock (5:00) P.M.
         b.   Lighting: No signals or lights or illumination shall be permitted
on a personal wireless service facility unless required by the federal
communications commission (FCC), the federal aviation administration (FAA), or
the City. If illumination is required, the illumination alternative and design
chosen must cause the least disturbance to the surrounding views.
         c.   Signs: No personal wireless service facility shall be used or
serve as a sign or bear the advertising emblem or logo other than the name of
the manufacturer or provider in letters or graphics not to exceed four inches
(4") in height, or those required by the FCC.
         d.   Aesthetics: Towers and antennas shall comply with the following
requirements:
            (1)   Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or,
subject to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted a neutral color so
as to reduce visual obtrusiveness.
            (2)   At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related
structure shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures,
screening, and landscaping that will blend them into the natural settings and
surrounding buildings.
            (3)   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower,
the antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a
neutral color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of
the supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
         e.   Antennas On Existing Structures: Any antenna which is not
attached to a tower may be approved by the City as an accessory use to any
commercial, industrial, professional, institutional, or multi-family structure
of twenty four (24) or more dwelling units, provided:
            (1)   The antenna does not extend more than thirty feet (30') above
the highest point of the structure;
            (2)   The antenna complies with all applicable FCC and FAA
regulations;
            (3)   The antenna complies with all applicable building codes and
safety standards as referenced in Subsection 17.3012.A.5.g.; and
            (4)   The antenna utilizes stealth design.
         f.   Antennas On Existing Towers: An antenna which is attached to an
existing tower may be approved by the City and, to minimize adverse visual
impacts associated with the proliferation and clustering of towers, collocation
of antennas by more than one carrier on existing towers shall take precedence
over the construction of new towers, provided such collocation is accomplished
in a manner consistent with the following:
            (1)   Modification Or Reconstruction: A tower which is modified or
reconstructed to accommodate the collocation of an additional antenna shall be
of the same tower type as the existing tower, unless the City allows
reconstruction as a monopole.
            (2)   Height:
               (A)   An existing tower may be modified or rebuilt to a taller
height, not to exceed thirty feet (30') over the tower’s existing height, to
accommodate the collocation of an additional antenna provided the total height
shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet (150').
               (B)   The height change referred to in this Subsection may only
occur once per communication tower.
               (C)   The additional height referred to in Subsection
17.3012.A.5.f.(2)(A) shall not require a distance separation. The tower’s
premodification height shall be used to calculate such distance separations.
            (3)   On Site Location:
               (A)   A tower which is being rebuilt to accommodate the
collocation of additional antenna may be moved on site within fifty feet (50')
of its existing location.
               (B)   After the tower is rebuilt to accommodate collocation,
only one tower may remain on the site.
               (C)   A relocated on site tower shall continue to be measured
from the original tower location for purposes of calculating separation
distances between towers. The relocation of tower hereunder shall in no way be
deemed to cause a violation of this Chapter.
         g.   Building Codes/Safety Standards: To ensure the structural
integrity of towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in
compliance with standards contained in the current and applicable state or
local building codes and the applicable standards to towers that are published
by the Electronic Industry Association, as amended from time to time. If, upon
inspection, the City concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes and
standards and constitutes a danger to person or property, then upon notice
being provided to the owner of the tower, the owner shall have thirty (30) days
to bring such tower into compliance with such standards. Failure to bring such
tower into compliance within the thirty (30) day period shall constitute
grounds for removal of the tower or antenna at the owner’s expense.
         h.   Franchises: Owners and/or operators of towers or antennas shall
certify that all franchises required by law for the construction and/or
operation of a wireless communications system in the City have been obtained
and shall file a copy of all required franchises with the City.
         i.   Inventory Of Existing Sites: Each applicant for an antenna and/or
tower shall provide the development administrator an inventory of its existing
towers, antennas, or sites approved for towers and antennas, that are either
within the jurisdiction of the City or within one and one-half (11/2) miles of
the border thereof, including specific information about the location, heights,
and design of each tower. The City may share such information with other
applicants applying for administrative approvals of Special Use permits under
this Chapter or other organizations seeking to locate antennas within the
jurisdiction of the City, provided, however that the City is not, by sharing
such information, in any way representing or warranting such sites are
available or suitable.
         j.   Lot Size: For purposes of determining whether the installation of
a tower or antenna complies with the district bulk regulations, including, but
not limited to, setback requirement, lot coverage requirements, and other such
requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the
antennas or towers may be located on leased parcels or easements within such
lot.
         k.   Measurement: For purposes of measurement, tower setback and tower
separation distances shall be calculated and applied to facilities located in
the City irrespective of municipal jurisdictional boundaries.
         l.   Multiple Antenna/Tower Plan: The City encourages all plans for
tower and antenna sites to be submitted in a single application for approval of
multiple towers and/or antenna sites. Applications for approval of multiple
sites shall be given priority in the review process.
         m.   Not Essential Services: Towers and antennas shall be regulated
and permitted pursuant to this Chapter and shall not be regulated or permitted
as essential services, public utilities, or private utilities.
         n.   Principal or Accessory Use: Antennas and towers may be considered
principal or accessory uses. A different existing use of an existing structure
on the same lot shall not preclude the installation of an antenna or tower on
such lot.
         o.   State or Federal Requirements: All towers must meet or exceed
current standards or regulations of the FAA, the FCC, or any other agency of
the state or federal government with the authority to regulate towers and
antennas. If such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the
towers and antennas governed by this Chapter shall bring such towers and
antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations, unless a
different compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling state or federal
agency.
      6.   Additional Application Requirements In addition to any information
required for applications for Special Use permits pursuant to this Chapter,
applicants for a Special Use permit for a personal wireless service facility
shall submit the following information:
         a.   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and
height of the proposed tower, on site land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses
and zoning (including when adjacent to other municipalities), comprehensive
plan designation of the site and all adjoining, adjacent roadways, proposed
means of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings of the
proposed tower and any other structures, topography, parking, and other
information deemed by the development administrator to be necessary to assess
compliance with this Chapter.
         b.   Legal description of the parent tract and leased parcel (if
applicable).
         c.   The setback distance between the proposed tower and the nearest
residential unit, platted residentially zoned properties, and unplatted
residentially zoned properties.
         d.   The separation distance from other towers described in the
inventory of existing sites submitted pursuant to Section 17.3012.A.5.i. shall
be shown on an updated site plan or map. The applicant shall also identify the
type of construction of the existing tower(s) and the owner/operator of the
existing tower(s), if known.
         e.   A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials.
         f.   Method of fencing, and finished color and, if applicable, the
method of camouflage and illumination.
         g.   A description of compliance with Section 17.3012.A.5.g. and all
applicable federal, state or local laws.
         h.   A notarized statement by the applicant as to whether construction
of the tower will accommodate collocation of additional antennas for future
users.
         i.   Identification of the entities providing the backhaul network for
the tower(s) described in the application and other cellular sites owned or
operated by the applicant in the municipality.
         j.   A description of the suitability of the use of existing towers,
other structures or alternative technology not requiring the use of towers or
structures to provide the services to be provided through the use of the
proposed new tower.
         k.   A description of the feasible location(s) of future towers or
antennas within the City based upon existing physical, engineering,
technological or geographical limitations in the event the proposed tower is
erected.
      7.   Factors Considered In Granting Special Use Permit For Towers In
addition to any standards for consideration of Special Use permit applications
pursuant to this Section, the Community Development Commission shall consider
the following factors in determining whether to issue a Special Use permit,
although the community development commission may waive or reduce the burden on
the application of one or more of these criteria if the community development
commission concludes that the goals of this Chapter are better served thereby:
         a.   Height of the proposed tower;
         b.   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential
district boundaries;
         c.   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
         d.   Surrounding topography;
         e.   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
         f.   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness;
         g.   Proposed ingress and egress; and
         h.   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures, or
stealth design. No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the community development
commission that no existing tower, structure or alternative technology that
does not require the use of towers or structures can accommodate the
applicant’s proposed antenna. An applicant shall submit information requested
by the community development commission related to the availability of suitable
existing towers, other structures or alternative technology. Evidence submitted
to demonstrate that no existing tower, structure or alternative technology can
accommodate the applicant’s proposed antenna may consist of any of the
following:
            (1)   No existing towers or structures are located within the
geographic area which meet applicant’s engineering requirements.
            (2)   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to
meet applicant’s engineering requirements.
            (3)   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient
structural strength to support applicant’s proposed antenna and related
equipment.
            (4)   The applicant’s proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant’s proposed antenna.
            (5)   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the
owner in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing
tower or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower
development are presumed to be unreasonable.
            (6)   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting
factors that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
            (7)   The applicant demonstrates that an alternative technology
that does not require the use of towers or structures, such as a cable
microcell network using multiple low powered transmitters/receivers attached to
a wireline system, is unsuitable. Costs of alternative technology that exceed
new tower or antenna development shall not be presumed to render the technology
unsuitable.
      8.    Term Limitation. Unless otherwise provided by ordinance, every
special use permit for a personal wireless services antenna or antenna support
structure is subject to the following conditions:
         a.   where the provider of personal wireless services is not the owner
of the land on which such antenna or structure is located, the term of the
special use permit is limited to the term of the lease or other agreement
granting rights to use the land; and
         b.   the special use permit shall be subject to review by the City
Council, at ten year intervals, to determine whether the technology in the
provision of personal wireless services has changed such that the necessity for
the special use permit at the time of its approval has been eliminated or
modified, and whether the special use permit should be modified or terminated
as a result of any such change.
      9.   Abandonment and Removal. When one or more antennas, an antenna
support structure, or related equipment are not operated for the provision of
personal wireless services for a continuous period of twelve months or more,
such antenna, antenna support structure, or related equipment may be deemed to
be abandoned and must be removed. The City will be entitled to remove such an
antenna, antenna support structure, or related equipment if the owner does not
remove such items within ninety (90) days following the mailing of written
notice that removal is required. Such notice shall be sent by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, by the City to such owner at the
last known address of such owner. If two or more providers of personal wireless
services use the antenna support structure or related equipment to provide
personal wireless services, then the period of non-use under this provision
shall be measured from the cessation of operation at the location of such
antenna support structure or related equipment by all such providers.
      10.   Security Fund. The owner of every personal wireless services
antenna will establish a security fund in a form and in an amount as set forth
in this Subsection 17.3012.A.10. The security fund will serve as security for
the removal of the antenna. The security fund will be continuously maintained
in accordance with this Subsection at the owner’s sole cost and expense until
the antenna is removed.
         a.   Form. The owner will provide the security fund to the City in the
form of cash, unconditional letter of credit, or surety bond, in a form
acceptable to the City.
         b.   Amount. The dollar amount of the security fund shall be equal to
the City Engineer’s reasonable estimated removal cost for the antenna.
         c.   Withdrawals. Following a removal notice provided under Section
17.3012.A.9., the City may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided
that the owner or operator has not removed the antenna within the 90-day notice
period.
         d.   Return. Upon removal of the antenna, the City will return the
security fund, or such portion remaining on deposit, to the owner within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the Village for the owner’s failure to remove the antenna upon notice provided
by Section 17.3012.A.9.
         e.   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the City with respect
to the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the City, whether
reserved by this Subsection or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund will affect
any other right the City may have.
      11.   Insurance. The operator of every personal wireless services antenna
must deliver to the Zoning Administrator, on an annual basis, proof of public
liability insurance covering the facility in an amount not less than One
Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) by an Illinois registered and licensed
insurance company with an AM Best rating of not less than A-VIII.
   B.   Definitions: Definitions for this Section 17.3012 and this Article
shall be as follows:
                                      The building(s), cabinet(s), vault(s),
                                      closure(s) and equipment required for
                                      operation of telecommunication systems,
ANCILLARY BUILDING:                   including, but not limited to, repeaters,
                                      equipment housing, relay equipment,
                                      ventilation and other electrical and
                                      mechanical equipment.
                                      A device commonly in the form of a metal
                                      rod, wire panel or dish, for transmitting
ANTENNA:                              or receiving electromagnetic radiation.
                                      An antenna is typically mounted on a
                                      supporting tower, pole, mast, building,
                                      or other structure.
                                      The placement of two (2) or more antenna
                                      systems or platforms by separate FCC
COLLOCATION:                          license holders on a structure such as a
                                      support structure, building, water tank,
                                      or utility pole.
                                      A tower that is supported by the use of
GUYED TOWER:                          cables (guywires) which are permanently
                                      anchored.
                                      A tower characterized by an open
LATTICE TOWER:                        framework of lateral cross members which
                                      stabilize the tower.
MAST:                                 A vertical element consisting of a tube
                                      or rod which supports an antenna.
                                      A single upright pole engineered to be
MONOPOLE:                             self-supporting and does not require
                                      lateral cross supports or guys.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES: Facilities for the provision of personal
                                      wireless services.
                                      Commercial mobile services, unlicensed
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES:           wireless services, and common carrier
                                      wireless exchange access services.
                                      A personal wireless service facility that
                                      is designed or located in such a way that
                                      the antennas and/or towers are
                                      camouflaged, concealed, disguised and
                                      otherwise not readily recognizable as
STEALTH DESIGN:                       telecommunications equipment. Examples of
                                      stealth design include concealing antenna
                                      in clock towers, bell steeples, on light
                                      poles, and integrating antenna into
                                      architectural elements on buildings by
                                      color, shape or location on the building.
                                      A vertical framework of cross elements
TOWER:                                that supports either an antenna, mast, or
                                      both.
                                      The offering of telecommunications
                                      services using duly authorized devices
UNLICENSED WIRELESS SERVICE:          which do not require individual licenses
                                      issued by the FCC, but does not mean the
                                      provision of direct to home satellite
                                      services as defined by the FCC.
                                      An unstaffed facility for the
                                      transmission or reception of radio
                                      frequency (RF) signals, usually
                                      consisting of an equipment shelter,
                                      cabinet or other enclosed structure
                                      containing electronic equipment, a
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY:      support structure, antennas or other
                                      transmission and reception devices.
                                      Amateur radio facilities and facilities
                                      used exclusively for the transmission of
                                      television and radio signals are not
                                      considered wireless communication
                                      facilities.
                                      A wireless communication facility that is
                                      affixed to an existing structure, e.g.,
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY,      an existing building wall or roof,
ATTACHED:                             mechanical equipment, tower or pole,
                                      water tank, utility pole, or light pole,
                                      that does not include an additional
                                      wireless communication support structure.
                                      A new structure, tower, pole or mast
                                      erected to support wireless communication
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SUPPORT        antennas and connecting appurtenances.
STRUCTURE:                            Support structure types include, but are
                                      not limited to, monopoles, lattice
                                      towers, wood poles and guyed towers.
                                      (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
 
ARTICLE IV
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS
SECTION:
17.401. Establishment Of Districts
17.402. Residential Districts
17.403. Commercial Districts
17.404. Business Park Districts
Sec. 17.401. Establishment Of Districts.
In order to carry out the purpose and provisions of this chapter, the city of
Wood Dale is hereby divided into the following development districts:
   A.   Estate Residential District (R-1): The Estate Residential District
provides and maintains areas of development at lowest density single-family
detached residences in the City, on generally uniform lots. This District is
intended for the exclusive development of larger lot detached single-family
residences.
   B.   Large Lot Single-Family District (R-2): The Large Lot Single-Family
District provides and maintains areas for development of lower density single-
family detached residences on generally uniform lots. This District is intended
for the exclusive development of detached single-family residences.
   C.   Single-Family District (R-3): The Single-Family District provides and
maintains areas for development of moderate density single-family detached
residences in a neighborhood setting. This District is intended for the
exclusive development of detached single-family residences.
   D.   Medium Density Single-Family District (R-4): The Medium Density Single-
Family District provides standards for development and maintenance of
residential neighborhoods. This District is comprised predominantly of single-
family detached dwellings in character and appearance.
   E.   General Residential (R-G): The General Residential District provides
standards for development and maintenance of a range of housing in a
residential neighborhood. The District is predominantly single-family attached
dwellings and multiple-family buildings in character and appearance. The mix of
these housing types and densities provides the opportunity for more residents
to live near and readily access businesses, transportation and entertainment
amenities.
   F.   Town Center Business (TCB): The Town Center Business District promotes
and maintains areas for commercial, residential, and mixed-use development near
the center of the City, generally as depicted on Zoning Map, and centered on
the intersection of Irving Park Road and Wood Dale Road. The TCB accommodates
active, communal, and experiential uses that serve and relate to one another,
the City, and the Metra train station. These activities include various retail,
office, governmental, institutional, public, residential, and cultural
activities.
   G.   Neighborhood Commercial (C-1): The Neighborhood Commercial District
provides and maintains generally small-scale shopping and retail uses serving
needs of those who live and work nearby. The C-1 District includes a mix of
business, office, government and residential uses to encourage social, cultural
and civic functions in the City. The C-1 District generally is located on Map X
and generally located along Irving Park Road, incorporating transitional areas
between commercial properties and their residential neighbors. Vehicles and
non-motorized transportation (pedestrians and bicyclists) should have
convenient access to and within developments in the C-1 Neighborhood Commercial
District.
   H.   Corridor Commercial District (C-2): The Corridor Commercial District
provides for and maintains a wide range of retail, dining, and service
businesses that serve City residents and a regional market area. The C-
2 District generally is located along arterial thoroughfares, and the uses are
larger, more visible, and more auto oriented than other areas of the City.
Vehicles and non-motorized transportation (pedestrians and bicyclists) should
have convenient access to and within developments in the C-2 Corridor
Commercial District.
   I.   Southeast Irving Park Corridor Commercial District (C-2a): The C-2a
Zoning District is a subset of the C-2 Corridor Commercial District,
specifically located on the south side of Irving Park Road on the eastern edge
of the City, as depicted on Zoning Map. Like the general C-2 District, the C-2a
Southeast Irving Park Corridor Commercial District provides for a wide range of
retail, dining, and service businesses. Development and design standards in C-
2a District reflect the unique lot sizes and configurations in this area.
Optimal development will use the full depth of land between Irving Park Road
and the railroad right of way to create places with a sense of community and
experience. Such larger lot developments facilitate activities, such as outdoor
dining, and connectivity of developments along Irving Park Road that are
created through design and site elements, like the existing alleyway to
establish the C-2a District as a unified commercial area.
   J.   Service/Commercial District (C-3): The Service/Commercial District
provides for uses that meet business and service needs of local residents and
businesses. These uses may include moderately intensive commercial and service
activities such as auto repair and light industrial functions that are smaller
in scale and have a low-impact on neighboring properties through proper site
planning and architectural design.
   K.   Industrial/Business Park District (I-1): The Industrial/Business Park
District promotes and supports a variety of manufacturing, warehousing,
distribution, logistics, and office uses in a business park setting. The I-
1 District contains development standards consistent with the types of
employment uses attracted to the area by the City’s proximity to O’Hare Airport
and Illinois Route 390.
   L.   Thorndale Corridor Corporate (TCC) Overlay District:
The Thorndale Corridor Corporate (TCC) District is established to provide and
maintain a thriving, first class corporate environment with a mix of uses that
support a range of business activities. The district is generally located along
Wood Dale Road and the Illinois 390 (currently Thorndale Avenue) near the
planned location of the western terminal of O’Hare International Airport. The
map symbol and short name for this district shall be “TCC”.
The district will provide the City with economic development opportunities in
close proximity to the airport, expressway corridor and area businesses. It
should be planned, designed and developed according to the City’s Thorndale
Corridor Master Plan (approved in 2009) as an attractive transit-oriented,
mixed-use business setting that fosters interaction between land uses and
buildings, facilitates pedestrian activity and transit use and reduces vehicle
trips on area roadways.
   M.   Thorndale Interchange Overlay (TIO) District: The Thorndale Interchange
Overlay (TIO) District provides and maintains a thriving, first class business
park environment that supports a range of business activities. The TIO
functions as an overlay, adding regulations to the I-1 Industrial/Business Park
District and C-2 Commercial Corridor District to enhance the character and
quality of development in this unique area of the Wood Dale. The overlay is
located generally at the IL-390 and Wood Dale Road Interchange, as depicted on
the Zoning Map.
   Development in the Overlay area and the standards for that development will
expand economic opportunity in the City given its proximity to O’Hare Airport,
the expressway system and area businesses. Uses and new development in the TIO
are to be planned, designed, and developed in keeping with City’s Comprehensive
Plan for an attractive mixed-use business setting that fosters synergy between
land uses and buildings, facilitates pedestrian activity, and supports economic
development.
Table 4-1: Table of Bulk, Area and Yard Regulations (See Additional Regulations
for each District)
                               Min.    Min.    Minimum Minimum
         Minimum Minimum Min.  Front   Corner  Side    Rear    Maximum  Maximum
District Lot     Lot     Lot   Yard    Side    Yard    Yard    Lot      Building
         Area    Width   Depth Setback Yard    Setback Setback Coverage Height
         (sf)    (ft)    (ft.) (ft)    Setback (ft)    (ft)
                                       (ft)
                                   Min.     Min.    Minimum Minimum
         Minimum Minimum    Min.   Front    Corner  Side    Rear    Maximum  Maximum
District Lot     Lot Width  Lot    Yard     Side    Yard    Yard    Lot      Building
         Area    (ft)       Depth  Setback  Yard    Setback Setback Coverage Height
         (sf)               (ft.)  (ft)     Setback (ft)    (ft)
                                            (ft)
                                                    Lesser
                                                    of 10%
R-1      15,000  100 ft.    150    25 ft.   25 ft.  of lot  30 ft.  40%      30 ft.
                            ft.                     depth
                                                    or 10
                                                    ft.
                                                    Lesser
                                                    of 10%
R-2      10,000  80 ft.     125    25 ft.   25 ft.  of lot  30 ft.  40%      30 ft.
                            ft.                     depth
                                                    or 10
                                                    ft.
                                                    Lesser
                                                    of 10%
R-3      8,625   65 ft.     130    25 ft.   25 ft.  of lot  30 ft.  40%      30 ft.
                            ft.                     depth
                                                    or 10
                                                    ft.
                                                    Lesser
                                                    of 10%
R-4      7,500   50 ft.     150    25 ft.   25 ft.  of lot  30 ft.  40%      30 ft.
                            ft.                     depth
                                                    or 10
                                                    ft.
R-G
(Multi-
Fam.)
(See     6,000   65 ft.
Table 4-
2 for
others)
(80 ft.
for      90 ft.  25 ft.     65 ft. 10 ft.   30 ft.  80%     65 ft.
Corner
Lot)
TCB      20,000  100 ft.    120    60 ft.   5 ft.   5 ft.   25 ft.  80%      50 ft.
                            ft.
C-1      19,000  100 ft.    120    60 ft.   5 ft.   5 ft.   25 ft.  80%      40 ft.
                            ft.
C-2      50,000  100 ft.    120    80 ft.   80 ft.  5 ft.   25 ft.  40%      30 ft.
                            ft.
                                   Front
                            125    Yard
C-2a     29,000  120 ft.    ft.    Build-to 5 ft.   -       25 ft.  80%      40 ft.
                                   Line: 8
                                   ft.
                                   Average
C-3      13,000  100 ft.    130    Front    5 ft.   5 ft.   0 ft.   70%      30 ft.
                            ft.    Yard
                                   Setback
I-1      2 acres 200 ft.    -      40 ft.   20 ft.  20 ft.  20 ft.  80%      45 ft.
TCC      Per     Underlying Zoning District
         10                 Per                                              60 ft.
TIO      acres   Per PUD    PUD    Per PUD  Per PUD Per PUD Per PUD Per PUD  or per
                                                                             PUD
 
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-22-030, 11-17-2022; Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-
2024)
Sec. 17.402. Residential Districts.
   A.   Estate Residential District (R-1).
Estate Residential District (R-1)
Estate Residential District (R-1)
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)             15,000 SF
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)                100 ft
Minimum Lot Depth                      150 ft
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.)       25 ft
Minimum Corner Side Yard Setback (ft.) 25 ft
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)                10% of lot width or 10 ft, whichever is
                                       less
Minimum Rear Yard                      30 ft
Maximum Lot Coverage                   40%
Maximum Building Height                30 ft
 
      1.   Purpose: The Estate Residential District provides and maintains
areas of development at lowest density single-family detached residences in the
City, on generally uniform lots. This District is intended for the exclusive
development of larger lot detached single-family residences.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses in the R-1 District shall be as
listed in the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      3.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the R-1 District shall be as listed in
the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      4.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the R-1 District shall
be as specified in Article 5.
      5.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the R-
1 District shall be as specified in
Table 4-1 and illustrated here.
      6.   Additional Standards:
         a.   Lot width: On a corner lot, minimum lot width shall be 115 feet.
         b.   Side yard: On a corner lot, the corner side setback shall be 25
feet.
         c.    Lot Coverage: Up to an additional 10 percent lot coverage may be
granted by the Development Administrator when a stormwater management system to
capture rain runoff beyond that required by this Code is installed and
maintained on the property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2882.png]
 
   B.   Large Lot Single-Family District (R-2).
Large Lot Single-Family District (R-2)
Large Lot Single-Family District (R-2)
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)             10,000 SF
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)                80 ft
Minimum Lot Depth                      125 ft
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.)       25 ft
Minimum Corner Side Yard Setback (ft.) 25 ft
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)                10 ft or 10% of lot width, whichever is
                                       less
Minimum Rear Yard                      30 ft
Maximum Lot Coverage                   40%
Maximum Building Height                30 ft
 
      1.   Purpose: The Large Lot Single-Family District provides and maintains
areas for development of lower density single-family detached residences on
generally uniform lots. This District is intended for the exclusive development
of detached single-family residences.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses in the R-2 District shall be as
listed in the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      3.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the R-2 District shall be as listed in
the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      4.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the R-2 District shall
be as specified in Article 5.
      5.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the R-
2 District shall be as specified in
Table 4-1 and illustrated here.
      6.   Additional Standards:
         a.   Lot width: On a corner lot, minimum lot width shall be 95 feet.
         b.   Side yard: On a corner lot, the corner side setback shall be 25
feet.
         c.    Lot Coverage: Up to an additional 10 percent lot coverage may be
granted by the Development Administrator when a stormwater management system to
capture rain runoff beyond that required by this Code is installed and
maintained on the property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2884.png]
 
   C.   Single-Family District (R-3).
Single-Family District (R-3)
Single-Family District (R-3)
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)             8,625 SF
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)                65 ft
Minimum Lot Depth                      130 ft
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.)       25 ft
Minimum Corner Side Yard Setback (ft.) 25 ft
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)                10 ft or 10% of lot width, whichever is
                                       less
Minimum Rear Yard                      30 ft
Maximum Lot Coverage                   40%
Maximum Building Height                30 ft
 
      1.   Purpose: The Single-Family District provides and maintains areas for
development of moderate density single-family detached residences in a
neighborhood setting. This District is intended for the exclusive development
of detached single-family residences.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses in the R-3 District shall be as
listed in the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      3.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the R-3 District shall be as listed in
the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      4.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the R-3 District shall
be as specified in Article 5.
      5.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the R-
3 District shall be as specified in
Table 4-1 and illustrated here.
      6.   Additional Standards:
         a.   Lot width: On a corner lot, minimum lot width shall be 80 feet.
         b.   Side yard: On a corner lot, the corner side setback shall be 25
feet.
         c.    Lot Coverage: Up to an additional 10 percent lot coverage may be
granted by the Development Administrator when a stormwater management system to
capture rain run off beyond that required by this Code is installed and
maintained on the property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2886.png]
 
   D.   Medium Density Single-Family District (R-4).
Medium Density Single-Family District (R-4)
Medium Density Single-Family District (R-4)
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)             7,500 SF
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)                50 ft
Minimum Lot Depth                      150 ft.
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.)       25 ft
Minimum Corner Side Yard Setback (ft.) 25 ft
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)                10% of lot width or 10 ft, whichever is
                                       less
Minimum Rear Yard                      30 ft
Maximum Lot Coverage                   40%
Maximum Building Height                30 ft
 
      1.   Purpose: The Medium Density Single-Family District provides
standards for development and maintenance of residential neighborhoods. This
District is comprised predominantly of single-family detached dwellings in
character and appearance.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses in the R-4 District shall be as
listed in the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      3.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the R-4 District shall be as listed in
the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      4.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the R-4 District shall
be as specified in Article 5.
      5.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the R-
4 District shall be as specified in
Table 4-1 and illustrated here.
      6.   Additional Standards:
         a.   Lot width: On a corner lot, minimum lot width shall be 65 feet.
         b.   Side yard: On a corner lot, the corner side setback shall be 25
feet.
         c.   Lot Coverage: Up to an additional 10 percent lot coverage may be
granted by the Development Administrator when a stormwater management system to
capture rain runoff beyond that required by this Code is installed and
maintained on the property.
      d.    Corner Side Yard: The corner side setback may be reduced by the
Development Administrator when a house no more than 30 feet in width is
constructed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2888.png]
 
   E.   General Residential (R-G).
      1.   Purpose: The General Residential District provides standards for
development and maintenance of a range of housing in a residential
neighborhood. The District is predominantly single-family attached dwellings
and multiple-family buildings in character and appearance. The mix of these
housing types and densities provides the opportunity for more residents to live
near and readily access businesses, transportation and entertainment amenities.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses in the RG District shall be as listed
in the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      3.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the RG District shall be as listed in
the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      4.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the RG District shall
be as specified in Article 5.
      5.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the RG District
shall be as specified in
Table 4-2.
      6.   Additional Standards: Side yard: Provide additional 5 feet for each
additional story over 2 stories in height.
TABLE 4-2: General Residential (R-G)
 Single Family Duplex/ Two Family SF Attached  Multiple Family Non- Residential
 Detached                         (Townhome)
TABLE 4-2: General Residential (R-G)
             Single       Duplex/ Two  SF Attached  Multiple      Non-
             Family       Family       (Townhome)   Family        Residential
             Detached
Minimum Lot
Area (sq.    7,500 SF     8,620 SF     8,225 SF     6,000 SF      10,000
ft.)
Minimum Lot  60 ft        75 ft        75 ft        65 ft         75 ft
Width (ft.)
Minimum Lot
Width,       90 ft        90 ft        90 ft        80 ft         90 ft.
Corner lot
(ft.)
Minimum Lot  115 ft       115 ft       110 ft       90 ft         90 ft.
Depth
Minimum
Front Yard   25 ft        25 ft        25 ft        25 ft         25 ft.
Setback
(ft.)
Minimum for  10 ft or 10% 10 ft or 10% 10 ft (see   10 ft (see    15 feet (see
each Side    of lot       of lot       Additional   Additional    Additional
Yard per     width,       width,       Standards    Standards     Standards
(ft.)        whichever is whichever is Subsection   Subsection 6) Subsection 6)
             less         less         6)
Minimum Rear 30 ft.       30 ft.       30 ft.       30 ft.        30 ft.
Yard
Maximum Lot  40%          80%          80%          80%           80%
Coverage
Maximum
Building     30 ft        30 ft        30 ft        65 ft         60 ft.
Height
Maximum
Density (du/ -            -            16.0 du/acre 45 du/acre    -
acre)
 
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-2024)
Sec. 17.403. Commercial Districts.
   A.   Town Center Business (TCB).
TCB Town Center Business District
TCB Town Center Business District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)             20,000 SF
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)                100 ft
Minimum Lot Depth                      120 ft
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.)       60 ft. (see Additional Standards
                                       Subsection 6b)
Minimum Side Yard Setback (ft.)        5 ft. (see Additional Standards
                                       Subsection 6c)
Minimum Corner Side Yard Setback (ft.) 5 ft. (see Additional Standards
                                       Subsection 6c)
Minimum Rear Yard Setback (ft.)        25 ft.
Maximum Lot Coverage                   80%
Maximum Building Height (ft.)          50 ft. (see Additional Standards
                                       Subsection 6a)
Transitional Yard                      Additional Standards (Subsection 6d and
                                       6e)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2890.png]
 
      1.    Purpose: The Town Center Business District promotes and maintains
areas for commercial , residential, and mixed-use development near the center
of the City, generally as depicted on Zoning Map, and centered on the
intersection of Irving Park Road and Wood Dale Road. The TCB accommod ates
active, communal, and experiential uses that serve and relate to one another,
the City, and the Metra train station. These activities include various retail,
office, governmental, institutional, public, residential, and cultural
activities.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the TCB District shall be as
listed in the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      3.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the TCB District shall be as listed in
the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      4.    Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the TCB District
shall be as specified in Article 5.
      5.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the TCB
District shall be as specified in
Table 4-1 and illustrated here.
      6.   Additional Standards:
         a.   Building Height. The maximum building height may be up to 65 feet
if approved by the City Council as a Planned Unit Development.
         b.   Front Yard Parking Setback: Any part of a parking lot (including
but not limited to drive areas or parking areas) shall be setback a minimum of
8 feet from the Front Lot Line.
         c.   Side Yards:
            (1)   No Side Yard Setback is required for common wall
construction.
            (2)   An additional 5 feet Side Yard and Corner Side Yard setback
shall be provided for each additional story over 2 stories in height.
            (3)   When public sidewalks are permitted by the City to be located
on private property, the 5 foot Corner Side Yard shall be measured from closest
point of such sidewalk to the principal structure.
         d.   Transitional Landscaping between differing land uses shall be as
required in Article 6: Landscaping and Tree Preservation, Sections
17.604.B.2 and
17.604.D.
         e.   Transitional Yard Exception: Where individual parking spaces are
located in the rear, side, or corner-side yard and directly accessed from an
alley, transitional parking lot requirements in Article 6: Landscaping and Tree
Preservation, of this Chapter shall not apply. However, architectural design of
the building front should be copied or reflected on the building rear.
         f.   Pedestrian/Bicycle Access: For the safety of pedestrians and
bicyclists, parking lots with more than two rows of parking shall:
            (1)   Include paths connecting parking aisles to building or store
entrances. Such paths may be provided as sidewalks or indicated by striping or
changes in pavement.
            (2)   Install dedicated bicycle parking (as required by Article 5:
Off-Street Parking and Loading) convenient to building entrances.
         g.   Building Orientation:
            (1)   Front facades of buildings shall be constructed parallel to
the front property line.
            (2)   Buildings constructed with the side façade facing the front
yard may be approved by the City as a Planned Unit Development.
         h.   Landscaping and Site Design. In addition to the requirement of
Article 6: Landscaping and Tree Preservation, development in the TCB District
shall meet the following requirements (where standards differ, those in this
Subsection shall apply):
            (1)   A grass landscape strip with perimeter parking lot
landscaping as required in Article 6 shall be located in the Front Yard Parking
Setback specified in Subsection 6.b. above.
            (2)   Parking spaces shall be located on the drive aisle side
closest the principal structure, in support of visitor safety, when only one
row of parking is provided.
            (3)   A 5 foot sidewalk shall be provided between the parking area
and principal structure to support pedestrian safety.
            (4)   A 5 foot foundation planting area shall be located along the
front of the principal structure.
            (5)   Where feasible, cross access to parking lots on adjacent
properties is encouraged.
         (6)    All development in the TCB District shall require Site Plan
Review.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2892.png]
 
   B.   Neighborhood Commercial (C-1).
Neighborhood Commercial (C-1)
Neighborhood Commercial (C-1)
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)             19,000 SF
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)                100 ft.
Minimum Lot Depth                      120 ft
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.)       60 ft. (see Additional Standards
                                       Subsection 6b)
Minimum Side Yard Setback (ft.)        5 ft. (see Additional Standards
                                       Subsection 6c)
Minimum Corner Side Yard Setback (ft.) 5 ft. (see Additional Standards
                                       Subsection 6c)
Minimum Rear Yard                      25 ft
Maximum Lot Coverage                   80%
Maximum Building Height                40 ft (see Additional Standards
                                       Subsection 6a)
Transitional Yard                      (see Additional Standards Subsection 6d)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2894.png]
 
      1.     Purpose: The Neighborhood Commercial District provides and
maintains generally small-scale shopping and retail uses serving needs of those
who live and work nearby. The C-1 District includes a mix of business, office,
government and residential uses to encourage social, cultural and civic
functions in the City. The C-1 District generally is located along Irving Park
Road, incorporating transitional areas between commercial properties and their
residential neighbors. Vehicles and non-motorized transportation (pedestrians
and bicyclists) should have convenient access to and within developments in the
C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses in the C-1 District shall be as
listed in the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      3.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the C-1 District shall be as listed in
the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      4.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the C-1 District shall
be as specified in Article 5.
      5.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the C-
1 District shall be as specified in
Table 4-1 and illustrated here.
      6.   Additional Standards:
         a.   Building Height. The maximum building height may be up to 65 feet
if approved by the City Council as a Planned Unit Development.
         b.   Front Yard Parking Setback: Any part of a parking lot (including
but not limited to drive areas or parking areas) shall be setback a minimum of
8 feet from the Front Lot Line.
         c.   Side Yards:
            (1)   No Side Yard Setback is required for common wall
construction.
            (2)   An additional 5 feet Corner Side Yard setback shall be
provided for each additional story over 2 stories in height.
            (3)   When public sidewalks are permitted by the City to be located
on private property, the 5 foot Corner Side Yard shall be measured from closest
point of such sidewalk to the principal structure.
         d.   Transitional Yard:
            (1)   Transitional Landscaping between differing land uses shall be
as required in Article 6: Landscaping and Tree Preservation, Sections
17.604.B.2. and
17.604.D.
            (2)   Transitional Yard Exception: Where individual parking spaces
are located in the rear, side, or corner-side yard and directly accessed from
an alley, transitional parking lot requirements in Article 6: Landscaping and
Tree Preservation, of this Chapter shall not apply. However, architectural
design of the building front should be copied or reflected on the building
rear.
         e.   Pedestrian/bicycle access: For the safety of pedestrians and
bicyclists, parking lots with more than two rows of parking shall:
            (1)   Include paths connecting parking aisles to building or store
entrances. Such paths may be provided as sidewalks or indicated by striping or
changes in pavement.
            (2)   Install dedicated bicycle parking (as required by Article 5:
Off-Street Parking and Loading) convenient to building entrances.
         f.   Building Orientation:
            (1)   Front facades of buildings shall be constructed parallel to
the front property line (as shown in the C-1 Development Option illustration).
            (2)   Buildings constructed with the side façade facing the front
yard may be approved by the City as a Planned Unit Development.
         g.   Landscaping and Site Design. In addition to the requirement of
Article 6: Landscaping and Tree Preservation, development in the C-1 District
shall meet the following requirements (where standards differ, those in this
Subsection shall apply):
            (1)   A grass landscape strip with perimeter parking lot
landscaping as required in Article 6 shall be located in the Front Yard Parking
Setback specified in Subsection 6b above.
            (2)   Parking spaces shall be located on the drive aisle side
closest the principal structure, in support of visitor safety, when only one
row of parking is provided.
            (3)   A 5 foot sidewalk shall be provided between the parking area
and principal structure to support pedestrian safety.
            (4)   A 5 foot foundation planting area shall be located along the
front of the principal structure.
         (5)    Where feasible, cross access for vehicles to parking lots on
adjacent properties is encouraged.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2896.png]
 
   C.   Corridor Commercial District (C-2).
Corridor Commercial District (C-2)
Corridor Commercial District (C-2)
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)       50,000 SF
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)          100 ft.
Minimum Lot Depth                120 ft
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.) 80 ft. (see Additional Standards 6d)
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)          5 ft. (see Additional Standards 6b)
Minimum Rear Yard                25 ft.
Maximum Lot Coverage             80%
Maximum Building Height          40 ft (see Additional Standards 6a)
Transitional Yards               (see Additional Standards Subsection 6d)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2898.png]
 
      1.   Purpose: The Corridor Commercial District provides for and maintains
a wide range of retail, dining, and service businesses that serve City
residents and a regional market area. The C-2 District generally is located
along arterial thoroughfares, and the uses are larger, more visible, and more
auto oriented than other areas of the City. Vehicles and non-motorized
transportation (pedestrians and bicyclists) should have convenient access to
and within developments in the C-2 Corridor Commercial District.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses in the C-2 District shall be as
listed in the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      3.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the C-2 District shall be as listed in
the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      4.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the C-2 District shall
be as specified in Article 5.
      5.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the C-
2 District shall be as specified in
Table 4-1 and illustrated here.
      6.   Additional Standards:
         a.   Building Height. The maximum building height may be up to 60 feet
if approved by the City Council as a Planned Unit Development.
         b.   Front Yard Parking Setback: Any part of a parking lot (including
but not limited to drive areas or parking areas) shall be setback a minimum of
8 feet from the front lot line.
         c.    Side yards:
            (1)    No side yard is requir ed for comm on wall constr uction.
            (2)   An additional 5 feet of setback shall be provided for each
additional story over 2 stories in height.
            (3)   When public sidewalks are permitted by the City to be located
on private property, the 5 foot Corner Side Yard shall be measured from closest
point of such sidewalk to the principal structure.
         d.   Transitional Landscaping between differing land uses shall be as
required in Article 6: Landscaping and Tree Preservation, Sections
17.604.B.2. and
17.604.D.
         e.   Pedestrian/bicycle access: For the safety of pedestrians and
bicyclists, parking lots with more than two rows of parking shall:
            (1)   Include paths connecting parking aisles to store entrances.
Such paths may be provided as sidewalks or indicated by striping or changes in
pavement.
            (2)   Install dedicated bicycle parking (as required by Article 5:
Off-Street Parking and Loading) convenient to building entrances.
         f.   Landscaping and Site Design. In addition to the requirement of
Article 6: Landscaping and Tree Preservation, development in the C-2 District
shall meet the following requirements:
            (1)   A grass landscape strip with perimeter parking lot
landscaping as required in Article 6 shall be located in the Front Yard Parking
Setback specified in Subsection 6b above.
            (2)   A 5 foot sidewalk shall be provided between the parking area
and principal structure to support pedestrian safety.
            (3)   A 5 foot foundation planting area shall be located along the
front of the principal structure.
            (4)   Where feasible, cross access to parking lots on adjacent
properties is encouraged.
   D.   Southeast Irving Park Corridor Commercial District (C-2a):
Corridor Commercial District - SE IPR (C-2a)
Corridor Commercial District - SE IPR (C-2a)
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)     29,000 SF
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)        120 ft.
Minimum Lot Depth              125 ft.
Front Yard Build-to Line       8 ft.
Minimum Corner Side Yard (ft.) 5 ft. (see Additional Standards Subsection 6b)
Minimum Rear Yard              25 ft.
Maximum Lot Coverage           80%
Maximum Building Height        40 ft. (see Additional Standards Subsection 6a)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2900.png]
 
      1.   Purpose: The C-2a Zoning District is a subset of the C-2 Corridor
Commercial District, specifically located on the south side of Irving Park Road
on the eastern edge of the City, as depicted on Zoning Map. Like the general C-
2 District, the C-2a Southeast Irving Park Corridor Commercial District
provides for a wide range of retail, dining, and service businesses.
Development and design standards in C-2a District reflect the unique lot sizes
and configurations in this area. Optimal development will use the full depth of
land between Irving Park Road and the railroad right of way to create places
with a sense of community and experience. Such larger lot developments
facilitate activities, such as outdoor dining, and connectivity of developments
along Irving Park Road that are created through design and site elements, like
the existing alleyway to establish the C-2a District as a unified commercial
area.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses in the C-2a District shall be as
listed in the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      3.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the C-2a District shall be as listed
in the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      4.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the C-2a District
shall be as specified in Article 5.
      5.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the C-2a
District shall be as specified in
Table 4-1 and illustrated here.
      6.    Additional Standards:
         a.    Buildi ng Height . The maximum building height may be up to 60
feet if approved by the City Council as a Planned Unit Development.
         b.   Side Yard:
            (1)   An additional 5 feet of setback shall be provided for each
additional story over 2 stories in height.
            (2)   When public sidewalks are permitted by the City to be located
on private property, the 5 foot Corner Side Yard shall be measured from closest
point of such sidewalk to the principal structure.
         c.   Transitional Landscaping between differing land uses shall be as
required in Article 6: Landscaping and Tree Preservation, Sections
17.604.B.2. and
17.604.D.
         d.   Front Yard Parking Setback: Any part of a parking lot (including
but not limited to drive areas or parking areas) shall be setback a minimum of
8 feet from the front lot line.
         e.   Pedestrian/bicycle access: For the safety of pedestrians and
bicyclists, parking lots with more than two rows of parking shall:
            (1)   Include paths connecting parking aisles to building or store
entrances. Such paths may be provided as sidewalks or indicated by striping or
changes in pavement.
            (2)   Install dedicated bicycle parking (as required by Article 5:
Off-Street Parking and Loading) convenient to building entrances.
         f.   Landscaping and Site Design. In addition to the requirement of
Article 6: Landscaping and Tree Preservation, development in the C-2a District
shall meet the following requirements (where standards differ, those in this
Subsection shall apply):
            (1)   A grass landscape strip with perimeter parking lot
landscaping as required in Article 6 shall be located in the Front Yard Parking
Setback specified in Subsection 6b above.
            (2)   A 5 foot sidewalk shall be provided between the parking area
and principal structure to support pedestrian safety.
            (3)   A 5 foot foundation planting area shall be located along the
front of the principal structure.
            (4)   Cross access to parking lots on adjacent properties is
required unless approved by the Development Administrator based on safety
concerns or site constraints that cannot be resolved.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2902.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2908.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2910.png]
 
         g.   Zoning Entitlement:
            (1)   All new development in the C-2a Zoning District shall require
Site Plan Review and Planned Unit Development approval, to ensure development
in the District supports the District’s Purpose. The process for this approval
shall be as outlined in Article 2: Administration and Enforcement of this
Chapter.
            (2)   Should a proposed development in the C-2a District advance
the purpose of this District by reflecting one of the potential redevelopment
scenarios illustrated in this Subsection, the Development Administrator, at
their sole discretion, may waive the requirement for the Planned Unit
Development process.
   E.   Service/Commercial District (C-3).
Service/Commercial District (C-3)
Service/Commercial District (C-3)
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)             13,000 SF
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)                100 ft
Minimum Lot Depth                      130 ft.
                                       Average Front Yard Setback of existing
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.)       principal structures currently located
                                       on the block.
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)                5 ft.
Minimum Corner Side Yard Setback (ft.) 5 ft.
Minimum Rear Yard                      0 ft.
Maximum Lot Coverage                   70%
Maximum Building Height                30 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2912.png]
 
      1.   Purpose: The Service/Commercial District provides for uses that meet
business and service needs of local residents and businesses. These uses may
include moderately intensive commercial and service activities such as auto
repair and light industrial functions that are smaller in scale and have a low-
impact on neighboring properties through proper site planning and architectural
design.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses in the C-3 District shall be as
listed in the Table of Permitted Uses
(Table 4-5).
      3.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the C-3 District shall be as listed in
the Table of Permitted Uses (
(Table 4-5).
      4.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the C-3 District shall
be as specified in Article 5.
      5.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the C-
3 District shall be as specified in
Table 4-1 and illustrated here.
      6.   Additional Standards:
         a.   Accessory Parking and Loading in the Right of Way:
            (1)   Accessory parking associated with uses in the C-3 Zoning
Districts located in the public right of way may only be permitted upon
issuance of a Special Parking License approved by the City Council.
            (2)   In requesting a Special Parking Licenses, the property owner
shall provide to the City a Parking Management Plan to mitigate adverse impacts
on adjacent properties of parking and loading; the Parking Management Plan
shall be considered as part of the City Council determination as to whether a
Special Parking Licenses shall be granted.
            (3)   Accessory parking associated with uses in the C-3 Zoning
Districts that is directly accessed from the public right of way may only be
permitted if approved through a Special Use, as outlined in Article 2:
Administration and Enforcement.
            (4)   Loading and unloading of vehicles to or from properties in
the C-3 Zoning District may not be conducted in any part of the public right of
way for vehicles having more than 2-axels.
            (5)   Accessory parking associated with uses in the C-3 Zoning
Districts located in the public right of way or as parking spaces directly
accessed from the public right of way existing at the time of adoption of this
Ordinance shall provide to the City, upon request of the Development
Administrator, a Parking Management Plan indicating how to mitigate potential
adverse impacts on nearby properties of parking and loading for the subject
property.
            (6)   Install dedicated bicycle parking (as required by Article 5:
Off-Street Parking and Loading) convenient to building entrances.
         b.   Front Yard:
            (1)   Parking shall be allowed in the Front Yard if only if
screened with a 100% screen as specified in Article 6: Landscaping and Tree
Preservation.
            (2)   Parking located in the Front Yard at the time of adoption of
this Chapter may be brought into compliance if all requirements of this Chapter
are met and a 100% screen as specified in Article 6: Landscaping and Tree
Preservation is installed; otherwise said parking lot shall be considered
legally nonconforming and subject to the nonconforming provisions of this code.
         c.   Side Yard: Any side yard abutting a residential zoning district
or residential use shall provide a Privacy Fence, evergreen landscape material,
or combination of the two maintained to a height of no less than 6 feet, which
provides 100% screening, as a buffer to the adjacent use.
         d.   Business Operations:
            (1)   All business operations (other than outdoor storage) must
occur completely within the principal building.
            (2)   Outdoor storage must be screened on all sides visible from a
right of way or adjacent property by an 8 foot tall Privacy Fence.
            (3)   Vehicles over 8,000 pounds and all trailers remaining on a
property overnight shall be considered outdoor storage.
            (4)   Trash enclosures shall be provided for all waste disposal
areas, meeting the screening requirements as defined in Section
17.302.M.2.
            (5)   Utility and mechanical equipment located in the District
shall be screened so as to minimize visibility from and sound impacts on
adjacent residential uses, as may be approved by the Development Administrator.
         e.   Any existing nonconforming Use, Lot or Structure that was
nonconforming at the time of the adoption of this UDO may continue without the
requirement to conform to the Additional Standards and Parking Requirements
adopted herein. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-2024)
Sec. 17.404. Business Park Districts.
   A.   Industrial/Business Park District (I-1).
Industrial/Business Park District (I-1)
Industrial/Business Park District (I-1)
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)             2 acres
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)                200 ft.
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.)       40 ft.
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)                20 ft.
Minimum Corner Side Yard Setback (ft.) 20 ft.
Minimum Rear Yard                      20 ft.
Maximum Lot Coverage                   80%
Maximum Building Height                45 ft.
 
      1.   Purpose: The Industrial/Business Park District promotes and supports
a variety of manufacturing, warehousing, distribution, logistics, and office
uses in a business park setting. The I-1 District contains development
standards consistent with the types of employment uses attracted to the area by
the City’s proximity to O’Hare Airport and Illinois Route 390.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses in the I-1 District shall be as
listed in the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      3.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the I-1 District shall be as listed in
the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
      4.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the I-1 District shall
be as specified in Article 5.
      5.     Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the I-
1 District shall be as specified in
Table 4-1 and illustrated here.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2914.png]
 
      6.   Additional Standards:
         a.   Transitional Landscaping between differing land uses shall be as
required in Article 6: Landscaping and Tree Preservation, Sections
17.604.B.2. and
17.604.D.
         b.   Pedestrian/bicycle access: For the safety of pedestrians and
bicyclists, parking lots with more than two rows of parking shall:
            (1)   Include paths connecting parking aisles to main entrances.
Such paths may be provided as sidewalks or indicated by striping or changes in
pavement.
            (2)   Install dedicated bicycle parking (as required by Article 5:
Off-Street Parking and Loading) convenient to building entrances.
            (3)   Include paths connecting public sidewalks and transit stops
with building entrances.
         c.   Gateway Corridors:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2916.png]
 
            (1)    Designation: The following roadways are hereby designated,
for the purposes of this Chapter, as Gateway Corridors: Devon, Wood Dale,
Mittel, Thorndale North and South, Central, and Route 83 (as indicated in
Figure 4-1).
            (2)    Purpose: As noted in the City’s Comprehensive Plan and its
Thorndale Corridor Plan, the I-1 District industrial area plays a significant
role in the economy and character of Wood Dale. This includes the area serving
as a gateway to the community, both as a physical entrance and as an area that
many visit. Therefore, it is appropriate for key properties located along
Gateway Corridors within the I-1 Industrial District to present a unique and
higher standard of development character.
            (3)   Additional Regulations for properties abutting a Gateway
Corridor:
               (A)   Front Yard Setback shall be 50 feet.
               (B)   There shall be no parking located in the front yard.
               (C)   There shall be no parking located in the area between the
front of the principal structure and Front Property Line.
               (D)   Loading docks shall be located to the rear or side of the
building.
               (E)   Landscaping: In addition to the general design criteria
defined in Article 6: Landscaping and Tree Preservation, additional Perimeter
Landscaping Requirements in the Front Yard shall be required as follows:
                  i.   Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of one
for each seventy five feet (75'), or fraction thereof, of frontage along the
abutting property line. Such trees shall be planted no more than forty feet
(40') apart and may be clustered or spaced linearly as determined appropriate.
                  ii.   Other landscaping materials, including berms,
ornamental trees, conifers, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live planting
materials shall be provided at intermittent locations across fifty percent
(50%) of the abutting property line. Shrubs shall be placed in clusters
containing at least seven (7) per cluster, spaced at intervals of approximately
thirty five feet (35') along the abutting property line.
         d.   Design Guidelines: Design Guidelines for development of
properties and structures as defined in Article 10 of this Chapter shall be
applicable to all development along Gateway Corridors.
   B.   Thorndale Corridor District Overlay (TCC).
      1.    District Intent.
The Thorndale Corridor Corporate (TCC) District is established to provide and
maintain a thriving, first class corporate environment with a mix of uses that
support a range of business activities. The district is generally located along
Wood Dale Road and the Illinois 390 near the planned location of the western
terminal of O’Hare International Airport. The map symbol and short name for
this district shall be “TCC”.
The district will provide the City with economic development opportunities in
close proximity to the airport, expressway corridor and area businesses. It
should be planned, designed and developed according to the City’s Thorndale
Corridor Master Plan (approved in 2009) as an attractive transit-oriented,
mixed-use business setting that fosters interaction between land uses and
buildings, facilitates pedestrian activity and transit use and reduces vehicle
trips on area roadways.
“Figure 4-2: Thorndale Corridor Master Plan”, shows the potential build-out of
the Thorndale Corridor, as identified during the master planning process. It
reflects the goals and objectives of the plan and serves as a guide for City
officials, property owners, business owners and development professionals as
they shape and implement improvement and development projects within the
corridor.
FIGURE 4-2: Thorndale Corridor Master Plan
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2918.png]
 
      2.   Overlay Requirement: The TCC District is established as an “overlay”
zoning district. Compliance with the TCC District overlay regulations specified
in this chapter will be required in place of the existing district regulations
when any building is constructed, altered, repaired, enlarged or expanded
within the overlay district, or when any change in use is contemplated as any
change of use will be required to comply with this article.
Compliance with the TCC District overlay regulations are not required when
conducting routine maintenance/repairs to the building or installing signage,
or if the change in use contemplated is in accordance with article III of this
chapter.
      3.   Allowed Uses. Permitted and Special Uses in the TCC District shall
be as listed in the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
Notes: The following standards apply:
         a.   Mixed-Uses: Office, hotel, restaurant, retail and parking uses
can be mixed or incorporated within the same site and within the same building.
         b.   Same Floor Uses: Residential uses cannot be mixed on the same
floor with office, hotel, restaurant or retail uses in a building, i.e., a
floor with housing units cannot contain the other uses.
         c.   Ground-Floor Uses: The ground floor of all buildings and parking
decks along Wood Dale Road must contain active visible uses facing the street
to activate the streetscape.
         d.   Retail: Retail and restaurant uses are encouraged to be located
on the ground floor of all properties facing Wood Dale Road to activate the
streetscape.
         e.   Ground-Floor Parking: Parking on the ground floor of a building
and parking decks is allowed if they are set back 50 feet from the front
facade.
      4.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the TCC District shall
be as specified in Article 5.
      5.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the TCC
District shall be per underlying zoning or as otherwise required or approved
per this Chapter.
      6.   Sustainable Development: All development within the TCC shall
consider Best Management Practices regarding building design, site planning,
streetscape/landscape design and infrastructure engineering as specified in
Section
17.607. Green design considers the environment and site during design,
construction, operations and maintenance. The Sustainable Development practices
should be incorporated as feasible, and will be evaluated as part of the Site
Plan Review Process for how they have been made part of a development. When
several are presented together as part of a substantive Sustainable Development
Plan, they may be considered as a partial or complete provision of Public
Benefit for a PUD.
   C.   Thorndale Interchange Overlay (TIO).
TIO District Overlay
TIO District Overlay
Minimum Development Area (acres) 10 acres (see Additional Standards: Section
                                 5b).
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)          As approved per PUD.
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.) 50 feet, or as approved per PUD.
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)          As approved per PUD.
Minimum Rear Yard                As approved per PUD.
Maximum Lot Coverage             As approved per PUD.
Maximum Building Height          60 feet, or higher as may be approved by a
                                 PUD.
 
      1.   Purpose: The Thorndale Interchange Overlay (TIO) District provides
and maintains a thriving, first class business park environment that supports a
range of business activities. The TIO functions as an overlay, adding
regulations to the I-1 Industrial/Business Park District and C-2 Commercial
Corridor District to enhance the character and quality of development in this
unique area of the Wood Dale. The overlay is located generally at the IL-390
and Wood Dale Road Interchange, as depicted on the Zoning Map.
Development in the Overlay area and the standards for that development will
expand economic opportunity in the City given its proximity to O’Hare Airport,
the expressway system and area businesses. Uses and new development in the TIO
are to be planned, designed, and developed in keeping with City’s Comprehensive
Plan for an attractive mixed-use business setting that fosters synergy between
land uses and buildings, facilitates pedestrian activity, and supports economic
development.
      2.   Allowed Uses. Permitted and Special Uses in the TCC District shall
be as listed in the Table of Permitted Uses (
Table 4-5).
Notes: The following standards apply:
         a.   Mixed-Uses: Office, hotel, restaurant, retail and parking uses
can be mixed or incorporated within the same site and within the same building.
         c.   Ground-Floor Uses: The ground floor of all buildings and parking
decks along Wood Dale Road must contain active visible uses facing the street
to activate the streetscape.
         d.   Retail: Retail and restaurant uses are encouraged to be located
on the ground floor of all properties facing Wood Dale Road to activate the
streetscape.
         e.   Ground-Floor Parking: Parking on the ground floor of a building
and parking decks is allowed if they are set back 50 feet from the front
facade.
      3.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the TIO District shall
be as specified in Article 5.
      4.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the TIO
District shall be per underlying zoning or as required or approved per PUD.
      5.   Additional Standards:
         a.   All development in the TIO shall be considered for approval by
the City as a Planned Unit Development through the process spelled out in
Article 2: Administration and Enforcement. For the purpose of the TIO,
“development” means new construction developments of principle structures and
not improvements or additions to existing principle structures.
         b.   Minimum Development Area shall be defined for purposes of the TIO
as the Zoning Lot being considered for approval of a development. Upon a
request from the applicant for a development of less than 10 acres, the request
may be considered by the City:
            (1)   As a variation from the Minimum Development Area standards,
as set out by the Variation procedures in Article II: Zoning Administration of
this Chapter, or
            (2)   As a Planned Unit Development in which the Zoning Lot may
include multiple Lots, so as to accommodate varied ownership or phasing of the
final development. As approved by the City Council through the PUD, development
of the Minimum Development Area may be phased over time.
         c.   Landscaping shall be as defined in Article 6: Landscaping and
Tree Preservation, as may be refined by the Planned Unit Development approval
ordinance.
         d.   Pedestrian/bicycle access: For the safety of pedestrians and
bicyclists, all developments shall be as follows and as approved by the Planned
Unit Development consideration:
            (1)   Include paths connecting parking aisles to main entrances.
Such paths may be provided as sidewalks or indicated by striping or changes in
pavement.
            (2)   Install dedicated bicycle parking (as required by Article 5:
Off-Street Parking and Loading) convenient to building entrances.
            (3)   Include paths connecting public sidewalks and transit stops
with building entrances.
         e.   Minimum Development Standards: In all cases, unless varied as
part of the Planned Unit Development Consideration:
            (1)   Front Yard Setback shall be 50 feet.
            (2)   There shall be no parking located in the front yard.
            (3)   There shall be no parking located in the area between the
front of the principal structure and Front Property Line.
            (4)   Loading docks shall be located to rear or side of the
building.
            (5)   Design Guidelines: Design Guidelines for development of
properties and structures as defined in this Chapter shall be applicable to all
development in the TIO.
         g.   Sustainable Development: All development within the TIO shall
consider Best Management Practices regarding building design, site planning,
streetscape/landscape design and infrastructure engineering as specified in
Section
17.607. Green design considers the environment and site during design,
construction, operations and maintenance. The Sustainable Development practices
should be incorporated as feasible, and will be evaluated as part of the Site
Plan Review Process for how they have been made part of a development. When
several are presented together as part of a substantive Sustainable Development
Plan, they may be considered as a partial or complete provision of Public
Benefit for a PUD.
4-5: PERMITTED USE TABLE
LAND
USE   R-1         R-2    R-3    R-4     R-G         C-1          C-2        C-2a       C-3         TCB      I-1         TCC       TIO
TABLE
                                                                            Southeast
                  Large         Medium                                      Irving                 Town     Industrial/ Thorndale Thorndale
      Estate      Lot    Single Density General     Neighborhood Corridor   Park       Commercial/ Center   Business    Corporate Interchange
      Residential Single Unit   Single  Residential Commercial   Commercial Corridor   Service     Business Park        Corridor  Overlay
                  Unit          Unit                                        Commercial                                  Overlay
                                                                            District
LAND USE TABLE  R-1         R-2    R-3    R-4     R-G         C-1          C-2        C-2a       C-3         TCB      I-1         TCC       TIO
                                                                                      Southeast
                            Large         Medium                                      Irving                 Town     Industrial/ Thorndale Thorndale
                Estate      Lot    Single Density General     Neighborhood Corridor   Park       Commercial/ Center   Business    Corporate Interchange
                Residential Single Unit   Single  Residential Commercial   Commercial Corridor   Service     Business Park        Corridor  Overlay
                            Unit          Unit                                        Commercial                                  Overlay
                                                                                      District
Land Uses
Residential Uses
Bed and         S           S      S      S       S
breakfast
Community
residence,      P           P      P      P
state licensed
Community
residence,      S           S      S      S
unlicensed
Convents                                          S
Daycare home    P           P      P      P       S
Dwelling units,
above ground                                                               S          S                      P
floor business
use
Dwelling units,
attached                                  S       P
single-unit
Dwelling units,
detached        P           P      P      P       S
single-unit
Dwelling units,                                   P                                   S                      S
multiple-unit
Dwelling,                                 S       P
duplex
Dwelling,                                 S       P
duplex
Health and
welfare                                                                    S
facility
Mobile home                                       S
parks
short term
residential     S           S      S      S       S
rentals
Skilled care                                                               S                                 S
facility
Business Uses
Animal hospital                                               S            S          S                      S        S
Animal pound                                                                                                          P
and shelters
Arts studio                                                   P                       P          S           S        S
Automotive tire
and battery
store,                                                                                           P
including
installation
Bakery/coffee                                                 P            P          P                      P
shop
Banks and
financial                                                     P            P          P                      P
institutions
Banquet hall                                                               S                                 S
Car wash                                                                   S                                 S
Construction    T           T      T      T       T           T            T          T          T           T        T           T         T
trailer
Contractor’s                                                             P          P          P           S        P           P         P
office
Daycare centers                                               S            S          S                      S        S
Drive thru, as
part of a                                                     S            S          S                      S        S
permitted or as
a primary use
Food                                                                       P          P          P                    P
preparation
Funeral homes                                                 S            S
Gasoline                                                      S            S                                 S        S
station
Grocery/food
store greater                                                              S                                 S
than 25,000 sf
Grocery/food
store less than                                               P            P          P                      P
25,000 sf
Gun sales,                                                                 S
accessory
Home/garden                                                   P            P                                 S        S
center
Home/garden
center (greater                                                            S                                          S
than 100,000
square feet)
Hotel                                                                      S          S                      S                    P         P
Indoor retail                                                 P            P          P          P           P                    P         P
sales of goods
Indoor retail
sales of goods
(greater than                                                              S          S                               S
100,000 square
feet)
Indoor retail
sales of goods,
accessory (up                                                                                    S                    P
to 25% of total
square footage)
Internet sales                                                                                   P
with warehouse
Kennel                                                                                                                S
Liquor stores                                                 P            P          P                      P
Medical
cannabis                                                                                                              S           S         S
cultivation
centers
Medical
cannabis                                                                                                              P           P         P
dispensaries
Medical/dental                                                P            P          P                      P                    S         S
clinics
Motor vehicle                                                              S                                          S
rental
Motor vehicle
repair facility                                                                                                       S
for commercial
motor vehicles
Motor vehicle
repair facility                                                            S                     P
for passenger
motor vehicles
Motor vehicle
sales (new and                                                             S                                          S
used)
Office,
administrative                                                P            P          P          P           P        P           P         P
and
professional
Outdoor dining,                                               P            P          P                      P
temporary
Parking, non-                                                                                                                     P         P
accessory
Pawnshops                                                                                                             S
Personal                                                      P            P          P                      P                    P         P
services
Pet care                                                      S            S          S                               P
services
Pet stores                                                    S            S          S                      S
Printing                                                                                         P
establishments
Radio or
television                                                                 P                     P                    P
broadcasting
studio
Recreational
cannabis                                                      P            P          P                      P        P           P         P
dispensaries
Recreational
equipment
sales, service,                                                                                  P
and rental
installation
Real estate
office/model
home, accessory
to a            T           T      T      T       T           T            T          T          T           T        T
development
under
construction
Restaurants                                                   P            P          P                      P        S           P         P
Sales office    T           T      T      T       T           T            T          T          T           T        T
Smoke shops                                                   S            S          S          S                    S
Tattoo parlor                                                                                                         P
Tavern                                                        S            S          S                      P
Tombstone and
monument sales                                                                                   P                    P
(no production
on-site)
Towing service
without on-site                                                                                  P
impoundment
installation
Public, Cultural, Recreation, and Other Institutional Uses
Amusement                                                     S            S          S                      P        P
arcade
Cemetery                    S      S              S
Circuses,                   T      T      T       T           T            T          T                      T        T
carnivals
Colleges/                                                                  S
universities
Commercial/                                                   S            S          S          P                    P           S         S
trade schools
Garage sales,
estate sales,   T           T      T      T       T           T            T          T                      T        T
auctions,
sidewalk sales
Golf course/    S           S      S      S       S
country club
Government
buildings and   S           S      S      S       S           S            S          S          S           S        S
facilities
Hospitals                                                     S            S                                          S
Indoor athletic                                               S            S          S          P           S        S
facilities
Indoor
entertainment                                                 S            S          S                      S        S
and amusement
facilities
Lighted sports  S           S      S      S       S                                                          S        S
fields
Membership                                                                 S                     P           P
organization
Museum or
cultural                                                      S            S          S                      S        S
facility
Outdoor
recreational                                      S                        S                                          S           S         S
facilities
Playground      S           S      S      S       S
Religious       S           S      S      S       S           S            S          S          S           S        S
institutions
Schools
(public, non-   S           S      S      S       S
profit or
private)
Stadiums/
arenas/                                                                                                               S
auditoriums
Transportation
station/                                                                   S                     S           S        S           S
facility
Manufacturing Uses
Freight
handling                                                                                                              P           P         P
facility
Freight yard*                                                                                                         S
Fuel and fuel                                                                                                         S
oil dealer
Greenhouses                                                                                                           P
Helipad                                                                                                               S
Junkyard                                                                                                              S
Major utilities
and public      S           S      S      S       S           S            S          S          S           S        S
service
facilities
Manufacturing,                                                                                                        P           P         P
General
Manufacturing,                                                                        P          P                    P           P         P
Limited
Microdistillery                                                                                                       S
Microwinery                                                                                                           S
Minor utilities
and public      P           P      P      P       P           P            P          P          P           P        P
service
facilities
Motor vehicle                                                                                                         P
wrecking yard
Personal
storage                                                                                          P                    P
facilities
Product                                                                                          P                                P         P
showroom
Recycling                                                                                                             S
center
Research                                                                                                              P           P         P
services
Solid waste
transfer                                                                                                              S
station
Warehouse                                                                                        P                    P           P         P
Warehouse and                                                                                    P                    P           P         P
distribution
Wholesale                                                                                        P
Accessory Uses
Automated
teller machine,
accessory and                                                 S            S          S                      S
freestanding or
drive-up
Automated
teller machine,
accessory and                                                 P            P          P                      P
inside another
use or building
Emergency       S           S      S      S       S           S            S          S          S           S        S
shelter
Home based      P           P      P      P       P                                                          P
business
Miscellaneous
Adult regulated                                                                                                       P
uses
Commercial,
radio, and
microwave                                                                                        P
antenna and
cell towers
installation
Christmas tree                                                t            T          T                      T        T
sales
Outdoor                                                       T            T          T          T
seasonal sales
Parking lot/                                                               S          S          S           S        S
garage
Personal
wireless        S           S      S      S       S           S            S          S          S           S        S
communication
facilities
Planned         S           S      S      S       S           S            S          S          S           S        S
development
Portable
storage         T           T      T      T       T           T            T          T          T                    T
containers
Telephone
exchange,       S           S      S      S       S           S            S          S          S                    P
repeater
stations
Transit
station/                                                                                                                          S         S
facility
 
Notes
P = Permitted Use
S = Special Use
T = Temporary Use
* Note: Any existing freight yard use shall be discontinued in all development
districts, except for the I-1 Industrial/Business Park development district,
within eight (8) months of the effective date of this regulation.
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-22-030, 11-17-2022; Ord. O-22-034, 12-
22-2022; Ord. O-24-002, 2-15-2024; Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-2024)
ARTICLE V
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
17.501. Purpose And Scope
17.502. Design, Development And Maintenance Of Parking And Loading Areas
17.503. Schedule Of Required Parking
17.504. Off Street Loading Regulations
17.505. Commercial And Recreational Vehicle Parking Regulations
Sec. 17.501. Purpose And Scope.
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Article is to prevent or alleviate
congestion of the public streets and to promote the safety and welfare of the
public by establishing minimum requirements for off street parking and loading
of motor vehicles.
   B.   General Provisions for Off Street Parking and Loading Areas:
      1.   Regulations of this Article governing the number, location, design,
improvement and operation of parking and loading facilities shall be met for
all structures, developments and uses of land, unless otherwise allowed by the
City Code
      2.   Where a permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this
Chapter, and provided that construction is begun within six months of such
effective date, and is diligently prosecuted to completion, parking and loading
facilities shall be required per the requirements in place at the time of
permit issuance.
      3.   New Uses or Expansion of Existing Buildings:
         a.   When a new use of land occupies an existing building, structure
or premises and increases the intensity of use through addition of dwelling
units, gross floor area, seating capacity or other units of measurements
specified in this Chapter for required parking or loading facilities, the
number of parking and loading facilities shall be required as if the structure
or premises was Newly Built.
         b.   When a building or structure increases the intensity of use
through addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity or other
units of measurements specified in this Chapter for required parking or loading
facilities, no additional parking or loading facilities need be provided unless
and until the aggregate increase in units of measurement exceeds ten percent
(10%) of the parking or loading spaces required by this Article.
      4.   Existing Parking and Loading Facilities:
         a.   Accessory off street parking or loading facilities shall be
located on the same lot as the building or use served, unless otherwise allowed
under this Chapter.
         b.   Parking shall not be reduced below the requirements of this
Article, or if already less than said requirements, shall not be reduced
further.
         c.   In the case of a conforming or legally nonconforming building
being damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or other cause and
reconstructed, reestablished or repaired:
            (1)   The number of off-street parking spaces or loading docks in
place at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored and
continued.
            (2)   Should such damage or destruction exceed fifty percent (50%)
of the value of the building or use, sufficient off-street parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required by this Article as if the facility
were Newly Built. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.502. Design, Development and Maintenance of Parking and Loading Areas.
   A.   Design Standards for Off Street Parking and Loading Areas:
      1.   Parking and Loading Design Plan Required: Any application for
development or building permit, or certificate of occupancy where no permit is
required, shall include a Parking Lot Design Plan drawn to scale and fully
dimensioned showing any parking or loading facilities, lighting, landscaping,
signs and other improvements accessory thereto provided in compliance with this
Chapter, as well as items indicated in Subsection 17.502.A.2.
      2.   Parking Lot Design Plan Requirements: All parking and loading areas
shall be subject to the requirements of this Article, which shall be depicted
on a Parking Lot Design Plan submitted as part of an associated permit
application as required in Subsection 17.502.A.1. Where properties are subject
to Site Plan Review (Section
17.206) or Design Guidelines (Article10) additional requirements shall apply as
indicated in those Sections.
         a.   Screening and Landscaping: All open loading areas and all parking
areas providing space for ten (10) or more vehicles shall be effectively
screened in accordance with the landscaping requirements of Article 6:
Landscaping and Tree Preservation of this Code.
         b.   Open and Enclosed Parking Spaces and Loading Berths: Accessory
parking spaces and loading berths may be open to the sky or enclosed in a
building.
         c.   Illumination: Lighting used to illuminate off street parking and
loading areas shall be shielded or directed away from all adjacent property and
roadways and designed in keeping with Section
17.905G and other requirements of the City Code.
         d.   Signs: Signs placed in parking and loading areas shall be in
keeping with Chapter 13: Sign Code, of the City Code.
         e.   Curbing: A continuous concrete barrier curbing, minimum six
inches by eighteen inches (6" x 18") shall be located around the perimeter of
all loading or parking areas for five (5) or more vehicles. Design of curing
shall prevent vehicles from blocking any pedestrian path of travel, potentially
damaging landscape plantings, or crossing any property line. If in the
determination of the Development Administrator such interference cannot be
avoided, parking wheel stops may be authorized by the Development Administrator
to prevent such occurrence.
         f.   Striping: A painted stripe (of white or yellow) to define each
parking space and loading berth shall be provided and be a minimum of four
inches (4") in width for the length of each space. All areas designated as fire
lanes and/or no parking areas shall be striped and painted yellow. Parking of
all vehicles shall be permitted only within striped spaces. Such spaces shall
be designed, developed, and maintained in compliance with the provisions of
section
17.502.A.
         g.   Circulation and Access:
            (1)   Residential Uses: Not more than one driveway access to a
street frontage per lot shall be permitted, unless all site drainage
requirements are met and the total paved surface area in the front or corner
side yard shall not exceed thirty five percent (35%) of the total area of the
front or corner side yard in which the driveways are located. In addition at
least one of the following must be met:
               (A)   The lot has more than one street frontage (and access to
the street frontage is not limited or restricted by covenant or by a roadway
authority);
               (B)   The lot frontage is at least one hundred sixty feet (160')
wide and here shall be at least sixty feet (60') between access points along
the same street frontage. The total paved surface area in the front or corner
side yard shall not exceed thirty five percent (35%) of the total area of the
front or corner side yard in which the driveway is located.
            (2)   All Parking Lots:
               (A)   Parking lot driveways on opposite sides of an arterial or
collector street shall be either aligned with or offset by at least one hundred
fifty feet (150') between the centerlines of the opposing driveway.
            (3)   Nonresidential Uses:
               (A)   Parking aisles throughout the parking lot shall align as
closely as practical in order to create four-way intersections.
               (B)   Shared driveways and cross-access easements between
adjoining lots are encouraged to reduce the number of parking lot driveways
along public streets.
         h.   Yards: Off street parking spaces in non-Residential Zoning
Districts or for nonresidential uses in Residential Zoning Districts may be
located in keeping with the following
            (1)   No parking spaces may be located within twenty feet (20') of
adjacent Residential Zoning Districts.
            (2)   Off street parking spaces may be located in required rear,
side or transitional yards.
            (3)   Unless otherwise regulated by this Chapter, off street
parking spaces may be located in front or corner side yards but shall be no
closer than eight feet (8') from a front lot line. Such spaces shall be
screened with landscaping, where appropriate.
   B.   Maintenance and Use of Off-Street Parking and Loading Areas:
      1.   Location: The location of off-street parking spaces accessory to the
use served shall be provided as described here:
         a.   Accessory Parking in Residential Zoning Districts:
            (1)   Parking spaces accessory to dwellings shall be located on the
same Zoning Lot as the use served.
            (2)   Parking spaces accessory to uses other than dwellings in a
Residential Zoning District may be located on an adjacent lot or directly
across a street or alley from the lot occupied by the use served, but in no
case may the closest point of such a parking facility be more than three
hundred feet (300') from main entrance of such use.
            (3)   Parking in the rear yard on is not allowed on any deck,
patio, other improved surface, or any unimproved surface, unless conducted on a
legally installed driveway leading to a detached garage.
         b.   Accessory Parking in Commercial and Industrial Districts:
            (1)   All required parking spaces accessory to nonresidential uses
shall not be more than five hundred feet (500') from the main entrance of the
use served,
            (2)   All required parking spaces accessory to dwelling units shall
not be more than three hundred feet (300') from the main entrance of the use
served.
            (3)   No parking spaces accessory to a use in a commercial or
industrial district may be located in a Residential Zoning District, except
that private, free, off street parking accessory to and located not more than
two hundred feet (200') from such uses may be allowed by Special Use permit in
accordance with the standards and procedures provided in this Article 2 of this
Chapter.
         c.   Control of Offsite Off-Street Parking Facilities: When required
parking facilities are provided on a property other than the Zoning Lot served
by such off site facilities:
            (1)   All properties shall be and remain in the same fee simple
ownership as the Zoning Lot occupied by the building or use to which the off-
street parking facilities served.
            (2)   If control of both properties is not by common fee simple
ownership, the offsite parking shall be approved by the City in the form of a
Special Use Permit. As part of such application, the property owner shall
provide evidence of long-term lease or other agreement to ensure that the
offsite parking facilities will be maintained and available at all times during
the life of the principal use.
      2.   Off-Street Parking Facilities Accessory to Residential Uses:
         a.   Off-street parking facilities accessory to residential uses in
any Residential Zoning District shall be used solely for the parking of
passenger automobiles owned by occupants of the dwellings to which such
facilities are accessory or by guests of said occupants.
         b.   Required parking facilities accessory to residential structures
may be used for storage of any Commercial Vehicles or the parking of
automobiles belonging to employees, owners, tenants, visitors, or customers of
business establishments, only in keeping with in Section
17.505: Commercial and Recreational Vehicle Parking Regulations.
         c.   For the purpose of subsection 17.502.B.2.b., “storage” shall mean
a vehicle parked for more than forty-eight (48) hours in any seventy two (72)
hour period.
      3.   Limitations on Use of Off-Street Parking and Loading Areas:
         a.   Repair and Service: Motor vehicle repair work of any kind shall
not be conducted in conjunction with accessory open off-street parking or
loading facilities in any zoning district.
         b.   Gasoline and Oil Sales: The sale of gasoline and motor oil in
conjunction with accessory off street parking or loading facilities shall not
be permitted in any zoning district.
   C.   Development Standards for Off Street Parking:
      1.   Construction and Surfacing: Except as otherwise indicated in this
Chapter, the construction and design of new off-street parking areas shall be
reviewed by the City Engineer to determine that:
         a.   Every parking facility is improved with an all weather and dust
free material such as asphalt or concrete, and is graded and drained to dispose
of surface water accumulation by means of a positive stormwater drainage system
connected to a public drainageway.
         b.   Parking areas shall be constructed in accordance with the details
in City of Wood Dale Engineering Design and Development Standards Manual.
         c.   Plans for all proposed driveway aprons are approved by the
Director of Public Works or their designee.
         d.   Parking spaces and on site drive areas for individual attached
and detached residential dwellings shall not require review by the City
Engineer, but shall be constructed in accordance with the details in the City
of Wood Dale Engineering Design and Development Standards Manual.
      2.   Size and Configuration: Safe and efficient means of vehicular access
and egress to each required parking space shall be provided such parking space
at all times. Each off-street space for non-single-family uses shall be marked
on the ground to delineate its exact location. In no case shall the dimensions
of such parking space or means of access be less than the following: (
Table 5-1 and
Figure 5-1)   
Table 5-1: Parking Stall and Aisle Standards
               Stall Width  Stall Length  One-Way Aisle Two-Way Aisle Parking
Parking Angle* (A)          (B)           Width (C)     Width (D)     Modules
                                                                      (min.)**
Table 5-1: Parking Stall and Aisle Standards
               Stall Width  Stall Length  One-Way Aisle Two-Way Aisle Parking
Parking Angle* (A)          (B)           Width (C)     Width (D)     Modules
                                                                      (min.)**
Parallel (0)   9'           23'           12'           24'           30'
30             9'           18'           13'           24'           49'
45             9'           18'           13'           24'           53'
60             9'           18'           18'           24'           60'
90             9'           18'           24'           24'           60'
*   If parking angle is proposed that is not listed above, approval from
Development Administrator is required.
**   A “parking module” shall mean a row of parking spaces, a parking aisle,
and another row of parking spaces.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2940.png]
 
Figure 5-1: Parking Configurations
      3.   Driveways: All off street parking facilities shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner that
will least interfere with traffic movements on that public right of way:
         a.   Intersection Setbacks: Driveways located along the following
roadway types shall be located the minimum distance indicated from the closest
point of any intersection (see
Table 5-2 and
Figure 5-2).
 
Table 5-2: Driveway Intersection Setbacks
Roadway type                            Intersection Setback (minimum)
Arterial road right of way              60' from an intersecting right of way
Collector road right of way             50' from an intersecting right of way
Local street or cul-de-sac right of way 30' from an intersecting right of way
 
Figure 5-2: Driveway Intersection Setbacks
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3241.jpg]
 
         b.   Street Transition: To ensure traffic safety and circulation
efficiency, all parking facility driveways accessing a public right-of-way
shall provide a transition space of not less than thirty feet (30') in length
from the right-of-way, or not less than ten feet (10') in length from an alley
to the nearest parking space, an intersecting driveway or parking aisle along
said driveway.
         c.   Width: All driveways installed, altered, changed, replaced, or
extended after the effective date of this Article shall be constructed in
accordance with the details in the City of Wood Dale Engineering Design and
Development Standards Manual.
Figure 5-3: Street Transitions
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3243.jpg]
 
      4.    Queuing Spaces: Queuing spaces shall be provided to accessory
drive-up service facilities in the number prescribed in the table of parking
requirements, and with the following requirements:
         a.   Queuing spaces shall not interfere with parking or pedestrian and
vehicular circulation on the Zoning Lot, or circulation on adjacent rights of
way.
         b.   Queuing spaces shall measure ten feet (10') in width and eighteen
feet (18') in length.
         c.   Queuing space shall not occupy the same spaces as parking or
aisles thereto.
         d.   An escape lane shall be provided with each drive-up service to
allow safe access for those going around the drive-up service or needing to
exit the line.
   D.   Shared Parking:
Figure 5-5: Drive-Thru Queuing Spaces
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2948.png]
 
      1.   Description. Shared parking is an arrangement whereby two (2) or
more owners of non-residential properties, or users sharing a parking lot and
having different peak-hour parking demands use the same off-street parking
spaces to satisfy their off-street parking requirements.
      2.   General. The Development Administrator may approve shared parking
facilities between two properties, subject to the following:
         a.   Eligible Uses. Shared parking is allowed among different use
types or among uses with different hours of operation.
         b.   Ineligible Parking. Accessible parking spaces (for persons with
disabilities) may not be shared and must be located on-site.
         c.   Location. Shared parking spaces shall be located within 750 feet
of the primary entrance of all uses served, unless shuttle bus service is
provided to the parking lot.
         d.   Shared Parking Study. Applicants wishing to use shared parking as
a means of satisfying parking requirements shall submit a shared parking study/
analysis to the Development Administrator that clearly demonstrates the
feasibility of shared parking. It shall address, at minimum, the size and type
of the proposed development, the composition of tenants, the anticipated rate
of parking turnover and the anticipated peak parking and traffic loads for all
uses that will be sharing parking spaces.
         e.   Agreement. Applicants must provide a shared parking agreement in
a form approved by the City Attorney and executed by the parties using the
shared parking spaces and the City of Wood Dale. Shared parking privileges will
continue in effect only as long as the agreement, binding on all parties,
remains in force. Should the agreement cease to be in force, parking must be
provided as otherwise required within this Article. Shared parking agreements
shall be recorded with DuPage County Recorder of Deeds for all properties
involved in the agreement.
      3.   Shared Parking within Shopping Centers. Cumulative parking
requirements for mixed-use occupancies may be reduced where it can be
determined that the peak requirement of the several occupancies occurs at
different times during the day. For a shared parking arrangement, the
Development Administrator may make an administrative adjustment that reduces
the off-street parking requirements for each participating commercial property.
To approve such an administrative adjustment, the Development Administrator
shall find:
         a.   The collective parking facility is located within 750 feet
walking distance of each of the uses, as measured from the entrance of each use
to the nearest parking space in the collective parking facility.
         b.   Convenient, safe, accessible and visible pedestrian connections
are located between the facilities and all of the shared properties.
         c.   The tenants do not have the same hours of operation or peak hours
of operation, i.e., there is some substantial difference in business hours; an
example follows:
            (1)   Business 1: Monday to Friday: open 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.,
closed Saturday, Sunday.
            (2)   Business 2: Monday to Saturday: open 11:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.,
closed Sunday.
            (3)   Applicants must provide a shared parking agreement in a form
approved by the City Attorney and executed by the property owner, parties using
the shared parking spaces and the City of Wood Dale.
   E.   Bicycle Parking:
      1.   No development, except a one- or two-family development, shall have
fewer than three (3) bicycle parking spaces. No development shall be required
to exceed a maximum of ten (10) such spaces.
      2.   All nonresidential developments which provide automobile parking
facilities shall provide bicycle parking facilities (bike racks) at a ratio of
at least one (1) bicycle parking space for every ten (10) automobile parking
spaces.
      3.   Multi-family developments shall provide interior bicycle parking
facilities for building residents at a ratio of at least one (1) bicycle
parking space for every three (3) dwelling units. Such bicycle parking
facilities must be provided near the building entrance accessible to the
street. Multi-family developments shall also provide bicycle parking facilities
for visitors/public at a ratio of at least one (1) bicycle parking space for
every twenty (20) automobile parking spaces provided.
      4.   Bicycle parking facilities for nonresidential developments and
bicycle parking facilities provided for the visitors and/or public shall be
located a maximum distance of fifty (50) feet from the building entrance, or
shall be located at least as close as the closest automobile space.
      5.   Each bicycle parking facility shall be securely anchored to the
ground and designed to secure the bicycle frame when used in conjunction with a
user supplied lock.
   F.   Land Banked Future Parking:
      1.   Land Banking Future Parking. The City Council may grant relief from
City parking requirements to allow land banking up to twenty-five (25) percent
of the required parking spaces, provided that:
         a.   Sufficient evidence is provided by the applicant that supports
the reduced parking needs.
         b.   The area proposed for land banking of parking spaces shall be an
area suitable for parking at a future time.
         c.   Landscaping of the land-banked area shall be in full compliance
of the zoning regulations and, at a minimum, landscaped with turf. As a result
of site plan review, additional landscaping of the land-banked area may be
required.
         d.   The land banking area will not be used for any other use. The
land banked parking area cannot be used to fulfill other landscaping
requirements within this Chapter.
         e.   As part of the site plan review process, the applicant shall show
the area to be banked on the site plan and marked as “Land-Banked Future
Parking.”
         f.   The Development Administrator at their sole discretion, on the
basis of increased parking demand for the use, or provided parking proving to
be inadequate, may require the conversion of all or part of the land-banked
area to off-street parking spaces. The owner may convert the land-banked area
to parking prior to City notification, subject to all required permits.
   G.   Accessible Parking:
      1.   ADA Compliance. All Off-Street Parking Facilities must comply with
the State of Illinois Accessibility Code and the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990 (ADA) concerning the number and design of accessible vehicle
parking spaces required in parking lots and structures. Any update to State of
Illinois or National regulations regarding Accessible Parking shall supersede
these requirements.
      2.   Required Spaces. Parking spaces for persons with disabilities shall
be provided in all off-street parking facilities where parking is provided for
employees, visitors or both, with the exception of single family detached and
townhomes uses. The number of accessible parking spaces shall be included in
the total number of required parking spaces and shall be in accordance with the
applicable requirements of the Illinois Accessibility Code, as amended from
time to time, and all additional governing codes and applicable laws.
      3.   Dimensions and Design. Such spaces shall comply with the design
standards presented in the State of Illinois Accessibility Code, provided that
in no instance shall the width of any one (1) space be less than sixteen (16)
feet, nor the length less than eighteen (18) feet. Such spaces shall be
identified by a sign and pavement markings indicating parking for persons with
disabilities only. Such spaces shall be those closest to the entrance of the
building or structure, and shall be connected by a paved surface designed to
provide safe and easy access. Such spaces shall otherwise be in accordance with
the Illinois Vehicle Code.
      4.   Table 5-3: Accessible Parking Space Requirements (source:
www.IllinoisAttorneyGeneral.gov)
Table 5-3: Accessible Parking Spaces
Total Off Street Parking Spaces # of Accessible Parking Spaces Required
Provided
Table 5-3: Accessible Parking Spaces
Total Off Street Parking Spaces    # of Accessible Parking Spaces Required
Provided
1 to 25                            1
26 to 50                           2
51 to 75                           3
76 to 100                          4
101 to 150                         5
151 to 200                         6
201 to 300                         7
301 to 400                         8
401 to 500                         9
501 to 1,000                       2% of Total Number
Over 1,000                         20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
Medical facilities specializing in 20% of total number of parking spaces
treatment
Outpatient medical facilities      10% of total number*
 
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-2024)
Sec. 17.503. Schedule Of Required Parking:
Accessory off street parking spaces shall be provided for all properties as
required by this Section 17.503:
   A.   Computation Of Required Off Street Parking Spaces: When determining the
number of off street parking spaces required by this Section results in a
requirement of a fractional space, any fraction of one-half (½) or less may be
disregarded, while a fraction in excess of one-half (½) shall be counted as one
parking space.
   B.   Parking Basis: Parking spaces required for floor area shall be based on
the following:
      1.   The maximum net floor area devoted to such use.
      2.   Parking spaces required for employees shall be based on the maximum
number of employees on duty, or residing, or both, on the premises at any one
time.
   C.   Floor Area Exemptions:
      1.   If on street parking is provided adjacent to the proposed use, an
exemption of one thousand (1,000) square feet shall be applied toward the
calculation of required off street parking spaces.
      2.   When two (2) or more nonresidential uses are located on the same
Zoning Lot, only one exemption in terms of floor area, as set forth in
Table 5-4: Off Street Parking Requirements may be permitted.
   D.   On Street Parking Credits: On street parking directly fronting a lot
shall count toward fulfilling the parking requirement of that lot. One parking
space credit shall be given for every partial on street parking space in front
of the lot that is over fifty percent (50%) of the length of the on-street
parking space.
   E.   Uses Not Listed in
Table 5-4: For uses not listed in
Table 5-4 Off Street Parking Requirements, parking spaces shall be provided on
the same basis as required for the most similar listed use, as determined by
the Development Administrator.
   F.   Table 5-4: Off Street Parking Requirements:
LAND USE PARKING REQUIRED
LAND USE                                PARKING REQUIRED
Residential Uses 
Bed and breakfast                       1 space per bedroom
Daycare home                            2 spaces in addition to those for the
                                        residence
Dwelling units, above ground floor      1.25 spaces per dwelling unit
retail
Dwelling units, attached single-family  2 spaces per dwelling unit
Dwelling units, detached single-family  2 spaces per dwelling unit
Dwelling units, multiple-family         1.25 spaces per dwelling unit
Community residences                    1.5 spaces for each sleeping room
Mobile home parks                       1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
Skilled care facility                   1 space per dwelling unit
Business Uses
Animal hospital                         4.5 per 1000 square feet
                                        10 space per 1,000 square feet with eat
Bakery / coffee shop                    in option / 4 spaces per 1,000 square
                                        feet if retail only
Banks and financial institutions        2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Banquet hall                            1 per 3 persons of capacity
Cannabis dispensaries (medical and      4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
recreational)
                                        2.5 per 1,000 square feet of office /
Car wash                                retail area plus 3 per individual wash
                                        bay
Daycare centers                         2.5 per 1,000 square feet
                                        2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
Funeral homes                           office area plus / 1 per 3 person
                                        capacity in chapel areas
                                        4 parking space 1,000 square feet of
                                        total retail space plus spaces required
Gas/fueling stations                    per this Section for restaurants or
                                        other accessory spaces. One-half the
                                        number of gas pumps may be counted as
                                        parking spaces.
Grocery / food store                    4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Home/garden center                      4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Home/garden center (greater than        4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
100,000 square feet)
                                        1 space per guestroom plus spaces
Hotel                                   required per this Section for any
                                        banquet, office, meeting, or other
                                        accessory spaces.
Indoor retail sales of goods            4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Kennel                                  3.3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Medical marijuana dispensaries          4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Medical/dental clinics                  4.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Motor vehicle sales or rental           2.5 per 1000 square feet of office
                                        space
Offices, professional and business      4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Personal services                       4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Restaurants                             10 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Tavern/pub                              10 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Public, Cultural, Recreation, and Other Institutional Uses
Assembly/meeting halls                  1 per 3 persons of capacity
                                        2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
Cemetery                                office area plus / 1 per 3 person
                                        capacity in chapel areas
                                        40 spaces per each nine holes, plus
Golf course/country club                additional parking spaces as applicable
                                        to any accessory retail, service or
                                        banquet area.
Government buildings and facilities     3.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                        1 space per bed + 4 spaces per 1,000
Hospitals                               square feet of administrative office +
                                        additional spaces as required per labs,
                                        clinics, or other accessory use.
Indoor athletic facilities              5 per 1,000 square feet
                                        1 per 3 seat, game stations, or other
Indoor entertainment and amusement      unit so determined by the Development
facilities                              Administrator, plus parking as required
                                        in this Section for restaurants or
                                        other accessory uses.
Lighted sports fields                   1 space per 3 persons of design
                                        capacity
Membership clubs                        1 space per 3 persons of design
                                        capacity
Museum or cultural facility             2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
                                        total floor area
Religious institutions                  1 per 3 seats (fixed seating or seating
                                        capacity) in main assembly area
Schools (public, non-profit or private) 0.4 spaces per total students, faculty
                                        and staff
Stadiums/arenas                         1 space per 3 persons of design
                                        capacity
Manufacturing Uses
                                        4 spaces per 1,000 square feet (any
Contractor’s office                   storage area calculated at 1 space per
                                        1000 square feet)
                                        2 spaces per 1000 square feet (any
Food production                         office area calculated at 4 spaces per
                                        1,000 square feet).
                                        2 spaces per 1000 square feet (any
Manufacturing, general                  office area calculated at 4 spaces per
                                        1,000 square feet).
                                        2 spaces per 1000 square feet (any
Manufacturing, limited                  office area calculated at 4 spaces per
                                        1,000 square feet).
                                        2 spaces per 1000 square feet (any
Medical cannabis cultivation center     office area calculated at 4 spaces per
                                        1,000 square feet).
                                        2 spaces per 1000 square feet (any
Microbrewery                            office area calculated at 4 spaces per
                                        1,000 square feet).
                                        2 spaces per 1000 square feet (any
Microdistillery                         office area calculated at 4 spaces per
                                        1,000 square feet).
                                        2 spaces per 1000 square feet (any
Microwinery                             office area calculated at 4 spaces per
                                        1,000 square feet).
                                        1.5 spaces per 1000 square feet (any
Recycling center                        office area calculated at 4 spaces per
                                        1,000 square feet).
Research and development facilities     2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                        1 spaces per 1000 square feet (any
Warehousing and logistics facilities    office area calculated at 4 spaces per
                                        1,000 square feet).
Miscellaneous Uses
Emergency shelter                       1 space per bed plus 4 spaces per 1,000
                                        square feet of office space
 
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-24-002, 2-15-2024)
Sec. 17.504. Off Street Loading Regulations.
   A.   Location:
      1.   All required off street loading berths shall be located on the same
Zoning Lot as the use served.
      2.   No loading berth may be located within twenty feet (20') of adjacent
Residential Zoning Districts.
      3.   No loading berth located closer than fifty feet (50') to any
property in a Residential Zoning District shall be completely enclosed by
building walls, or a uniformly solid fence or wall, or any combination thereof.
Such screening shall not be less than six feet (6') in height.
      4.   No permitted or required portion of a loading berth shall be located
within twenty-five feet (25') of the nearest point of intersection of any two
(2) streets.
   B.   Size: Unless otherwise specified, a required loading berth shall be
sized as follows:
      1.   At least twelve feet (12) in width.
      2.   At least fifty-five feet (55) in length, exclusive of aisles and
maneuvering space.
      3.   Have a vertical clearance of at least sixteen feet (16).
   C.   Design and Maintenance:
      1.   Construction and Surfacing: The design of all off-street loading
berths and access thereto shall be reviewed as part of the Site Plan Review
Process to determine that such are constructed in accordance with the details
in City of Wood Dale Engineering Design and Development Standards Manual. A
concrete surface shall be required for each loading berth that serves a dock,
ramp or elevator.
      2.   Circulation and Access: Off-street loading areas shall be so
designed as to not require the use of any arterial or collector street for
maneuvering space into or out of the loading dock. Adequate space to
accommodate the turning radii of trucks and trailers, exclusive of any parking
spaces and landscaping shall be provided.
      3.   Screening: Loading berths shall be screened when required by
Development Administrator.
   D.   Utilization: Space allocated to any off-street loading berth shall not
also be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off street parking
facilities or portions thereof.
   E.   Central Loading Facilities. Central loading facilities may be
substituted for off-street loading facilities on individual lots in keep with
the following:
      1.   Each lot served shall have direct access to the central loading area
without crossing streets.
      2.   The total number of off-street loading berths provided shall meet
the minimum requirements of this Chapter, based on the sum of the several uses
served.
      3.   No lot served shall be located more than 300 feet from the central
loading area.
      4.   Collectively provided and used central loading facilities shall be
managed through written covenants and easements assuring their retention,
maintenance, and use; such agreement to be executed by the parties concerned
and the City of Wood Dale. Such covenants and easements shall be reviewed by
the Development Administrator and approved as to content and form by the City
Attorney and filed for record in the DuPage County Recorder.
   F.   Yards: Off street loading berths may be located in keeping with the
following
      1.   Off street loading berths may be located in required rear, side or
transitional yards, except no loading dock may be located within twenty feet
(20') of adjacent Residential Zoning Districts.
      2.   No off-street loading berth may be located within a required front
or corner side yard.
      3.   If the site cannot accommodate loading berths in the rear, side or
transitional yards, then loading berths may be located in the front or corner
side yard but shall be screened, as required by the Development Administrator.
   G.   Schedule of Loading Requirements: Off-street loading berths shall be
required in connection with any building or part thereof hereafter erected or
altered which is to be occupied by a user requiring the receipt or distribution
of materials or merchandise. Off street loading berths shall be provided based
on the following:
      1.   Loading Berth Basis: The number of loading berths required shall be
based upon the maximum net floor area devoted to such use.
      2.   Schedule: Unless otherwise indicated, in the Commercial or
Industrial Zoning Districts, the loading requirements shall be based on the
floor area of the building(s) as shown in
Table 5-5.
      3.   When determination of the number of required off street loading
berths results in a requirement of a fractional berth, any fraction of one-half
(½) or less may be disregarded, while a fraction in excess of one-half (½)
shall be counted as one loading berth.
 
Table 5-5: Loading Berth Requirements
0 - 4,999 square feet        0 loading berths
5,000 - 15,000 square feet   1 loading berth
15,001 - 50,000 square feet  2 loading berths
50,001 - 100,000 square feet 3 loading berths
Each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet or fraction thereof
in excess of the first one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet shall
require one additional loading berth.
 
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.505. Commercial And Recreational Vehicle Parking Regulations.
   A.   Applicability:
      1.   The location and condition of Commercial and Recreational Vehicles
in R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and RG Residential Districts shall be permitted as
prescribed in this Section 17.505 Commercial and Recreational Vehicle Parking
Regulations.
      2.   The following regulation of this Section shall not apply to
Commercial Vehicles used by and for school activities on school grounds or
those conducting business at a location within a Residential Zoning District,
provided that no such vehicle may be parked for more than ten (10) consecutive
hours and under no circumstances shall be parked overnight.
   B.   Number and Location of Vehicles:
      1.   On a Single-Family Residential Lot:
         a.   Only one Commercial or Recreational Vehicles may be parked
outdoors.
         b.   Any additional Commercial or Recreational Vehicles shall be
parked entirely within an enclosed garage.
         c.   Any Commercial or Recreational Vehicle outdoors shall be parked
only in the rear or side yard.
         d.   Exception: A Commercial or Recreational Vehicle may be permitted
in the front yard if the property is developed in a manner that would
physically prohibit parking in the rear or side yard, as determined by the
Development Administrator. If front yard storage is therefore required, the
vehicle shall be parked as near to the front of the garage as is physically
possible and shall not extend beyond the front property line. Screening shall
be used as required per the Development Administrator.
      2.   On a Multi-Family Residential Lot:
         a.   Only one Commercial or Recreational Vehicle per residential unit
may be parked outdoors.
         b.   Any additional Commercial or Recreational Vehicles shall be
parked within an enclosed garage.
         c.   Any Commercial or Recreational Vehicle parked outdoors shall be
parked only in the rear or side yard.
         d.   Commercial or Recreational Vehicles may be parked in the front
yard only as approved by the Development Administrator when size, timeframe,
and other requirements of this Section 17.505 are met.
   C.   Surfacing: In all cases, Commercial and Recreational Vehicles shall be
parked on an approved hard surface of concrete, asphalt, or paving brick.
   D.   Parking Regulations for Commercial Vehicles
      1.   Commercial Vehicles may be parked in a side yard provided the
vehicle is not closer than ten percent (10%) of the lot width or ten feet (10')
away from the side property line (whichever is less).
      2.   If the property has a driveway that leads to a detached garage
located within the rear yard, a Commercial Vehicle may be stored on said
driveway only if parking of the vehicle complies with the side yard parking
requirements in Section 17.505.D.1:
      3.   Size Of Commercial Vehicles: Commercial Vehicles that exceed any of
the following size criteria, or requiring higher than a “D” license plate, may
not be parked outdoors in a Residential Zoning District and must be placed
completely within an enclosed garage:
         a.   Seven feet (7') in height for open bed trucks when measured from
the ground to the top of the roof,
         b.   Nine feet (9') in height for enclosed vans when measured from the
ground to the top of the roof;
         c.   Seven feet (7') in width when measured from the widest point of
the vehicle (mirrors are not included within the 7-foot width limitation); or
         d.   Twenty-two feet (22') in length when measured from the front
bumper to back bumper, excluding snowplow blades as permitted herein.
      4.   Exterior Attachments on Commercial Vehicles: Commercial Vehicles
parked outdoors shall comply with the following restrictions:
         a.   Rear of Vehicle: Trailers or other attachments shall be
prohibited on the rear of a Commercial Vehicle.
         b.   Front of Vehicle: Snowplows shall be permitted on the front of
Commercial Vehicles during the winter season and shall be removed and stored
indoors by May 15.
         c.   Sides of Vehicle: No storage of any equipment, storage racks or
materials shall be permitted on the sides of Commercial Vehicles.
         d.   Top of Vehicle:
            (1)   Storage racks may not exceed eighteen inches (18") in height,
inclusive of ladders and other equipment,
            (2)   Overall height of the Commercial Vehicle may not exceed nine
feet six inches (9'6") when measured from the ground to the top of the storage
rack, inclusive of equipment stored on said racks.
         e.   Pickup Truck Bed:
            (1)   Equipment not permanently attached or stored materials may
not be visible above the top of the trailer and pickup truck bed.
            (2)   Storage of landscaping material or other organic debris in
the trailer or bed of a vehicle shall be prohibited.
      5.   Vehicles with Refrigeration or Compressor Units: Parking of a
Commercial Vehicle containing a refrigeration unit or other motorized
compressor shall be prohibited outdoors within a Residential Zoning District.
Such vehicle may be parked completely within a garage if said refrigeration
unit is not audible outside the garage.
      6.   Commercial Trailer and Equipment Storage Limitations:
         a.   Any trailers or equipment that can be attached to a Commercial
Vehicle may only be parked in a fully enclosed garage.
         b.   No engine, compressor, or other equipment that is or can be
attached to a Commercial Vehicle may be allowed to idle while stored in a
Residential Zoning District.
         c.   No equipment stored on a trailer shall be loaded or unloaded from
the trailer upon any public right of way unless having rubber tires or treads.
   E.   Parking Regulations for Recreational Vehicles:
      1.   Recreation vehicles may be parked in a side yard provided the
vehicle is not closer than ten percent (10%) of the lot width or ten feet (10')
away from the side property line (whichever is less).
      2.   If the property has a driveway that leads to a detached garage
located within the rear yard, a Recreational Vehicle may be stored on said
driveway only if parking of the vehicle complies with the side yard parking
requirements in Section 17.505.E.1.
      3.   Recreational Vehicles may be parked in the rear yard if:
         a.   Located on a pad of concrete, asphalt or paving brick provided
the pad extends to the full exterior dimensions of the Recreational Vehicle,
and
         b.   It is located a minimum of five feet (5') from the rear property
line, and
         c.   It is located ten percent (10%) of the lot width or ten feet
(10') from the side lot line (whichever is less), and out of any easements.
      4.   Recreational Vehicle Standards: Recreational Vehicles stored or
parked in any Residential Zoning District shall comply with the following:
         a.   Size of Recreational Vehicles: Recreational Vehicles that exceed
any of the following size criteria must be placed completely within an enclosed
garage:
            (1)   Thirteen feet (13') in height when measured from the ground
to the top of the roof;
            (2)   Eight feet six inches (8'6") in width when measured from the
widest point of the vehicle (mirrors are not included within the width
limitation); or
            (3)   Thirty five feet (35') in length when measured from the front
bumper or hitch to the back bumper.
         b.   Open Recreational trailers shall comply with the following:
            (1)   Not be greater in length than sixteen feet (16') long when
measured from the hitch to the back bumper or equipment stored on the trailer
(whichever is longer).
            (2)   Not have ancillary racks.
         c.   No Recreational Vehicle or trailer shall be connected to gas,
water or sanitary sewer service. Temporary electrical hookup shall be permitted
only to clean and prepare the vehicle or trailer for use.
         d.   Parked or stored Recreational Vehicles and trailers shall not be
used for living or sleeping purposes.
         e.   Recreational Vehicles and trailers shall not be used as accessory
structures.
         f.   Recreational Vehicles or trailers shall not have their wheels
removed or be affixed to the ground, such vehicles shall be able to be readily
removed.
         g.   Recreational Vehicles and trailers shall be properly licensed.
         h.   Recreational Vehicles and trailers shall be utilized for
recreational purposes and leave the residential location at least one time per
calendar year.
         i.   Recreational equipment stored on a recreational trailer shall be
screened from public view by means of a fence, a landscape hedge, or covers
which are designed and manufactured for covering the equipment or trailer.
         j.   Recreational trailers may be stored in the front yard only when
the equipment stored upon the trailer is being utilized for that season
(example, snowmobiles in the winter season and boats in the summer season).
   F.   The following definitions shall apply to this Section 17.505 and this
Article.
 
COMMERCIAL TRAILER:   Any equipment, or trailer (open or closed) which is towed
                      by another commercial vehicle.
                      Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons or
                      property in the furtherance of any commercial or
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE:   industrial enterprise, for hire or not for hire, but not
                      including a commuter van (a vehicle used in a ridesharing
                      arrangement).
                      Any open trailer used to haul and store recreational
RECREATIONAL TRAILER: equipment such as boats, snowmobiles, motorcycles, and
                      ATVs and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial
                      business.
                      Every camping trailer, motor home, mini-motor home,
                      travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: for recreational purposes and not used commercially nor
                      owned by a commercial business. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-
                      2022)
 
ARTICLE VI
LANDSCAPE AND TREE PRESERVATION
SECTION:
17.601. Purpose
17.602. Tree Preservation Standards
17.603. Tree Removal And Replacement
17.604. Landscaping And Screening Regulations
17.605. Administration Of Landscaping And Tree Preservation Regulations
17.606. Landscape Plans
17.607. Best Management Practices (BMPs)
Sec. 17.601. Purpose.
   A.   This Article creates uniform landscape, screening and tree preservation
standards for development of property in Wood Dale and review of plans
therefor, to ensure that the City remains attractive, safe and comfortable.
These landscape regulations are established to:
   B.   Promote, protect and preserve the general health and safety of the
people of Wood Dale and, support aesthetic compatibility among land uses within
the City;
   C.   Reduce soil erosion and stormwater runoff, provide oxygen regeneration
to enhance air quality, and minimize the effects of urban heat islands;
   D.   Minimize any harmful effects of noise, dust, debris, motor exhaust,
headlight glare, artificial light intrusions, objectionable sights or
activities, or similar adverse impacts conducted or created by nearby land use;
   E.   Safeguard the environmental quality and aesthetic character of Wood
Dale by limiting removal and ensuring replacement of trees upon private
property;
   F.   Preserve existing vegetation and topographical features by limiting
unnecessary clearing and modification of land, encouraging retention of
existing mature trees, and requiring replacement of indigenous trees with
approved species; and
   G.   Encourage energy efficiency in the City. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.602. Tree Preservation Standards.
   A.   Existing Trees: Existing trees shall be maintained on properties, to
the extent feasible, through their integration into the site and landscape
planning for a proposed development. Trees infested, incurably diseased,
weakened by age, storm, fire, or other injury may be removed consistent with
established good forestry practices and the regulations of the City Code.
   B.   Construction Requirements: During any construction undertaken within
the City, trees shall be protected as specified in this Article and other
requirements of the City Code.
      1.   Grading and Construction Equipment: Grading and construction
equipment shall be forbidden from encroaching within the drip line of a tree.
      2.   Material Detrimental To Trees: Crushed limestone hydrocarbons and
other material detrimental to trees shall not be stored or dumped within the
drip line of any tree nor at any higher location where drainage toward the tree
could conceivably affect the health of the tree.
      3.   Toxic Chemicals and Other Injurious Substances: Toxic chemicals,
gasoline, oil and other injurious substances shall not be stored or allowed to
seep, drain or empty within one hundred feet (100') of the drip line of
protected trees.
      4.   Snow Fencing: Snow fencing shall be temporarily installed at the
periphery of the tree’s drip line.
      5.   Tree Trunks and Branches: Tree trunks and branches shall be
protected when construction must occur within a tree drip line.
      6.   Grade Changes: No grade changes shall be allowed under drip line of
any trees designated for preservation.
      7.   Root Pruning/Thinning: To improve the survival rate of trees, root
pruning and/or thinning should be performed in accordance with the latest
edition of the American National Standards Institute for Tree, Shrub, and Other
Woody Plant Management- Standard Practices Pruning (ANSI A300 part 1).
      8.   Underground Utility Lines: Any underground utility line approved by
the City for installation within five feet (5') of the trunk of a tree, or
within the drip line of said tree, shall be installed by manual auguring unless
another installation method shown to be safe for said tree is approved by the
Zoning Administrator. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.603. Tree Removal and Replacement.
Removal and replacement of trees shall be regulated by the following
requirements of this Subsection (17.603 Tree Removal and Replacement) and the
City Code; except that the requirements of this Subsection (17.603 Tree Removal
and Replacement) shall not apply to tree removal on properties having a single-
family, two-family, duplex, townhouse or any residential dwellings with a
separate means of egress located thereon.
   A.   Tree Removal Permit Required:
      1.   No tree having a diameter at breast height (dbh) of six inches (6")
or greater may be removed without having first obtained a Tree Removal Permit,
or other comparable action, as approved by the Development Administrator.
      2.   When tree removal is required by any Development requiring
submission of a Landscape Plan, Tree Preservation and Removal Plan, Site Plan,
or Subdivision Plan, such plan shall constitute a Tree Removal Permit, provided
the Development Administrator determines that all required information to
constitute a complete submittal has been provided.
   B.   Tree Preservation and Removal Plan Required: A Tree Preservation and
Removal Plan shall be required for any parcel of land involving the
construction of any new building(s) or structure(s) or other site improvements,
or the removal of a tree having a dbh of six inches (6") or greater. All Tree
Preservation and Removal Plans shall include the following:
      1.   A tree survey identifying the following:
         a.   Location of on-site and adjacent right-of-way trees.
         b.   General description of the tree(s), including but not limited to
tree size (measured as dbh), species type, and condition of tree.
         c.   Identification of trees designated for removal, preservation and/
or transplanting.
      2.   A written statement indicating the reason for removal of the tree
(s). A report from a licensed Illinois arborist may be requested by the
Development Administrator to confirm the need for tree removal.
      3.   Details, specifications and/or technical information of materials or
procedures to be used to preserve, protect and/or transplant trees.
   C.   Landscape Plan Required:
      1.   Landscape Plan Required: A Landscape Plan shall be required to
receive a Tree Removal Permit when five (5) or more replacement trees are
required by this Article.
      2.   Information: In addition to being prepared in accordance with
applicable provisions of Section
17.606: Landscape Plans of this Article, the Landscape Plan shall include the
following:
         a.   Identify each existing tree designated to remain.
         b.   Identify each existing tree designated for removal.
         c.   Indicate the location, species, and size (caliper) or height of
each replacement tree. Each replacement tree shall be labeled with letter “R”.
      3.   No replacement tree shall be used to satisfy the requirements for
tree planting in the public right-of-way or in parking lots; except when those
are the trees that must be replaced.
   D.   Removal of Trees to be Preserved: Removal of trees designated for
preservation and/or transplanting shall only be allowed by amending the Tree
Preservation and Removal Plan or Landscape Plan.
   E.   Fee In-Lieu: It may be impractical to plant the required number of
replacement trees on the same zoning lot due to space limitations or the
density of existing trees. Such determination may be made by the Development
Administrator based on evidence provided by the applicant. If such is found to
be the case the City may allow the payment of a fee in-lieu for each
replacement tree not planted on the subject property. Said fee shall be as
specified in the City of Wood Dale Master Fee Schedule. The collected fee in-
lieu shall be used to plant trees on public property at the City’s discretion.
   F.   Tree Replacement Required: Any tree that is 1) intended to be removed,
2) unintentionally removed or 3) damaged during construction shall be replaced
as follows:
      1.   Trees Designated for Removal: In the event that a tree is designated
for removal on the Tree Preservation and Removal Plan or Landscape Plan, such
tree shall be replaced with new trees in accordance with the following
schedule. On a vacant lot in a residential zoning district, the maximum number
of trees to be provided as replacement shall not exceed five (5) trees.
 
Table 6-1: Trees Designated for Removal Requirements
Size1 Of Tree        Number Of
To Be Removed        Replacement Trees
30 inches or greater 5
13 - 29 inches       4
8 - 12 inches        3
6 - 7 inches         2
1 Size refers to the tree diameter measured at breast height (dbh).
 
         a.   Trees Designated for Preservation: In the event that a tree
designated for preservation is destroyed, damaged, or removed during the
construction process, the following shall apply:
         Each tree shall be replaced with new trees in accordance with the
following schedule:
 
Table 6-2: Trees Designated for Preservation Requirements
Size1 Of Tree        Number Of
To Be Removed        Replacement Trees
30 inches or greater 10
13 - 29 inches       8
8 - 12 inches        6
6 - 7 inches         4
1 Size refers to the tree diameter measured at breast height (dbh).
 
      2.   For each tree designated for preservation that is destroyed,
damaged, or removed, the permit applicant shall be subject to a fine as
specified in the City of Wood Dale Master Fee Schedule.
      3.   Prohibited or Nuisance Trees: When a tree designated for removal is
one of the species on the list of prohibited trees as maintained by the City in
accordance with Section 6.503B of the City Code or when a tree is declared a
nuisance tree, each such tree shall not require replacement.
      4.   Exception:
         a.   A tree designated as dead or diseased on a Tree Preservation and
Removal Plan or Tree Removal Permit shall not require replacement.
         b.   Existing trees designated for removal as part of development that
will be replaced “like for like” by trees that required to meet standards of
this Article are not subject to this Section 17.603.F Trees Replacement
Required (for example: if a parking lot landscape islands containing two shade
trees is removed during redevelopment and replaced with a new landscape island
to include two new shade trees as required by this Article, then those existing
shade trees that were removed are not subject to replacement requirements).
      5.   Replacement Tree Requirements:
         a.   All replacement shade trees shall have a minimum caliper of three
inches (3.0").
         b.   All replacement coniferous trees shall have a minimum height of 6
feet (6').
         c.   Replacement trees may not include any tree on the list of
prohibited trees in accordance with Section
6.503B of the City Code.
         d.   A variety of tree species are encouraged to promote a diverse
tree canopy and minimize the impact from disease and infestation, thus when
twenty (20) or more replacement trees are required no more than twenty percent
(20%) of the replacement trees shall be of one species type.
         e.   A maximum of twenty percent (20%) of replacement trees may be
coniferous trees.
   G.   Failure To Comply: Should tree preservation precautions specified in
the Tree Preservation and Removal Plan not be adequately undertaken before and
maintained during construction, the land development permit for the parcel
shall not be issued or, if previously issued, shall be revoked until such time
as these precautions have been satisfied. The applicant/property owner shall be
placed on a future Administrative Adjudication Docket for an administrative
hearing and potential citation(s).
   H.   Applicability: The provisions of this Section 17.603 Tree Removal and
Replacement, do not apply to trees on public property.
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-2024; Ord. O-25-011, 3-20-
2025)
Sec. 17.604. Landscaping And Screening Regulations.
Landscaping and screening shall be provided in the locations and manner in
keeping with the following:
   A.   General Requirements for Landscaping and Screening:
      1.   Landscape Plan Required: A Landscape Plan prepared in accordance
with the standards set forth in this Article shall be required for any land
development requiring Site Plan Review, and prepared in keeping with Section
17.606: Landscape Plans, of this Article.
      2.   Minimum Size: Minimum sizes for plant materials at time of
installation for all landscape areas shall be as follows:
         a.   Deciduous trees shall be a minimum caliper of three inches (3.0")
when installed. Dwarf varieties, when authorized by the Development
Administrator due to space limitations, shall be a minimum caliper of two
inches (2").
         b.   Coniferous trees shall be a minimum six feet (6') in height when
installed.
         c.   Deciduous shrubs (other than dwarf varieties) shall be a minimum
of three feet (3') in height at time of installation if used as a perimeter
screen planting, and thirty inches (30") in height for all other installations.
Dwarf varieties and plants normally measured by spread shall be a minimum of
twenty-four inches (24") in height/spread.
         d.   Ground cover shall be designed, planted and spaced so that
complete coverage can be obtained within two (2) years after date of
installation.
         e.   Ornamental trees may be used, where appropriate in smaller
planting areas, and shall have a minimum caliper of two inches (2") or be of a
clump form at a minimum height of five feet (5').
      3.   Intersection Visibility: Landscaping must be designed and installed
to minimize potential obstruction of critical sightlines. Landscape plantings
shall not encroach into the Sight Triangle area as defined in Section
17.302.E. Trees are allowed in Sight Triangles provided the lowest branching
begins not less than eight feet (8') above the pavement.
      4.   Artificial Plants: No artificial plants of any type shall be used to
satisfy any requirements of this Article.
      5.   Prohibited Trees: Trees found on the list of prohibited trees as
maintained by the City’s Public Works Director shall not be used to satisfy the
requirements of this Article.
   B.   Parking Lot Landscaping Requirements: In addition to the general design
criteria prescribed in Section C: Landscape Plan Design Criteria, all Vehicle
Use Areas designed with twenty (20) or more parking spaces shall be landscaped
in accordance with the provisions of this Section
17.606.4.B. Final Parking Lot Landscaping plans shall be reviewed and approved
as part of the Site Plan Review Process outlined in Article II of the Chapter.
      1.    Interior Parking Lot Landscaping Areas:
         a.   The following percentage of the interior portion of all Vehicular
Use Areas shall be improved with landscaping:
            (1)   5,000 square feet or less      0%
            (2)   5,001 to 40,000 square feet   5%
            (3)   40,000 square feet or greater   8%
         b.   The required interior landscaping may include areas dedicated to
tree planting islands and those portions of the lot that are landscaped with
live ground cover and additional landscaping that is not dedicated to otherwise
required site perimeter landscaping.
         c.   Landscape Parking Island Design: Each landscape island, unless
otherwise indicated, shall be constructed per the following standards:
            (1)    A continuous concrete barrier curb having a minimum width of
seven feet (7'), measured back of curb to back of curb.
            (2)   A depth equal to the adjoining two parking spaces.
            (3)   Two (2) shade trees per landscape island used to break up a
double row of parking per Subsection d below.
            (4)   An adequate number and selection of shrubs, flowers, ground
covers, sod and mulch to cover the ground of the parking island (NOTE:
Landscaping required under this Subsection may be substituted with bioswales
and biofilter strips).
            (5)   Any planted shrubs shall not exceed a mature height of thirty
inches (30") above the adjoining pavement.
            (6)   Any tree branches maintained at a height less than six feet
(6') above the adjoining pavement.
            (7)   Utilities and mechanical equipment such as streetlights or
fire hydrants shall not be located in parking islands unless otherwise approved
by the Development Administrator due to a hardship.
         d.   Minimum Aisle Landscape Parking Island Location: A landscaped
island shall be provided at the end of each parking row.
Figure 6-1 Minimum Aisle Landscape Parking Islands:
Minimum Aisle Landscaping Parking Islands
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2964.png]
 
         e.   Additional Landscape Parking Island Location: In addition to
Minimum Aisle Landscape Parking Islands described in Subsection d above, one or
more of the following alternatives shall be used to divide each Double Row of
parking having twenty (20) spaces or more where a run of twenty (20) or more
parking spaces exist:
            (1)   Parking Space Landscape Islands: One Landscape Island may be
located so as to break up a run of twenty (20) parking spaces in the Double Row
of parking; or
Figure 6-2: Parking Space Landscape Islands
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2966.png]
 
            (2)   Landscape Island Diamond: One Landscape Island Diamond
positioned at the front corner of a parking space, may be provided for each ten
(10) parking spaces in a Double Row of parking. Landscape Island Diamonds shall
be located so as to break up a run of ten (10) parking spaces in the Double Row
of parking. Each Landscape Island Diamond shall be protected by a continuous
concrete barrier curb and having minimum dimensions of six and one-half feet
(6.5') square, measured back of curb to back of curb and contain one shade tree
planted in a Structural Soil (a mix of soil and crushed gravel designed to
support survival of trees planted in small area) as approved by the Development
Administrator; or
Figure 6-3: Landscape Island Diamonds
Landscape Island Diamond Per 10 Parking Spaces In A Double Row
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2968.png]
 
            (3)   Mid Row Landscape Island: A continuous Mid Row Landscape
Island protected by a continuous concrete barrier curb and having a minimum
depth of seven feet (7'), measured back of curb to back of curb, may be
provided between parking rows. A Mid Row Landscape Island may not be used in
parking rows along the perimeter of a parking lot. Each Mid Row Landscape
Island shall contain one shade tree for each twenty (20) parking spaces in the
parking row. A Mid Row Landscape Island may include notches as may be needed to
facilitate use of the landscape area for stormwater detention and filtration,
and gaps as needed to meet the requirements of Subsection f. below.
Figure 6-4: Mid Row Landscape Island
Mid-Row Landscape Island
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2970.png]
 
         f.   Pedestrian Access:
            (1)   All parking lots with two or more double-loaded rows must
provide internal pedestrian walkways within the Vehicle Access Area and outside
of the parking row or drive aisle.
               (A)   The walkway must be a minimum of five (5) feet in width.
               (B)   One walkway is required for every two double loaded
aisles.
               (C)   The walkway must be located to serve the maximum number of
parking stalls.
               (D)   All walkways must meet all ADA accessibility requirements.
            (2)   All parking lots must include walkways that provide direct
connections to building entrances from the spaces furthest from the entrance.
At least one walkway must provide a direct connection between the building
entrances and the adjacent public rights-of-way and associated sidewalk.
            (3)   All pedestrian walkways must be clearly marked with high-
visibility striping, through the use of alternative materials, such as pavers.
Where walkways cross a drive aisle, the walkway must have a continuous surface
treatment across the drive aisle.
      2.   Parking Lot Perimeter Landscaping:
         a.   Front and Corner Side Yards:
            (1)   Where a parking lot is located in or adjacent to a front or
corner side yard , landscaping shall be provided as follows:
               (A)   Continuous landscaping shall be provided across one
hundred percent (100%) of the parking lot frontage to a minimum height of three
feet (3').
               (B)   Such landscaping shall consist of any combination of
berms, shade and ornamental trees, conifers, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other
live planting material.
               (C)   The intent of this requirement is to screen parking lots,
vehicles and vehicle headlights from rights of way and adjacent properties.
         b.   Rear and Side Yards:
            (1)   Residential: Where a parking lot is located in a rear or side
yard adjacent a residential zoning district, landscaping shall be provided as
follows:
               (A)   Screening between the parking lot and the residential
property line shall be a minimum of six feet (6') in height or a solid 6-foot
wooden fence.
               (B)   Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of one for
each fifty (50) linear feet, or fraction thereof, of parking lot frontage and
shall not be planted more than forty feet (40') apart.
               (C)   Other planting material, including ornamental trees,
conifers, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live planting materials shall be
provided in a continuous row covering one hundred percent (100%) of the
frontage of the parking lot adjacent the residential lot(s).
               (D)   Unless occupied by planting beds, all side and rear yard
perimeter landscaping area shall be sodded or seeded.
            (2)   Nonresidential: Where a parking lot is located in a rear or
side yard adjacent a nonresidential property; landscaping shall be provided as
follows:
               (A)   Landscaping shall be provided Across at least fifty
percent (50%) of that portion of the parking lot abutting the property line to
a minimum height of three feet (3').
               (B)   Such landscaping shall consist of any combination of
berms, shade and ornamental trees, conifers, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other
live planting materials.
               (C)   Plantings may be placed in clusters, containing not less
than seven (7) shrubs per cluster, spaced at intervals of approximately thirty-
five feet (35') along the property line.
         c.   Alley Exemption: Where a nonresidential property is separated
from an abutting residential property by an ally providing access to parking,
the Development Administrator may provide relief from this Section
17.604.B.2. In granting such relief, the Development Administrator shall
consider the extent to which the intent of this Article can be met by providing
other forms of landscaping and screening.
         d.   Substitution: Landscaping required under this Section 17.604 may
be substituted with bioswales and biofilter strips providing equivalent or
greater screening impact, as determined by the Development Administrator.
   C.   Foundation Landscaping Requirements: In addition to the general design
criteria prescribed in Section
17.606.C: Landscape Plan Design Criteria, the following requirements shall also
apply to foundation landscaping:
      1.   Setback: A landscaping area not less than five feet (5') in width
shall be located around the perimeter of all buildings, except where
impractical, i.e., loading dock areas, entryways, etc.
      2.   Coverage: Required foundation landscaping areas shall remain open
and free of all paving except where walks to buildings and other similar paving
is required.
      3.   Landscaping Materials: Foundation landscaping consists of shade and
ornamental trees, conifers, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live planting
materials. Particular attention shall be paid toward the majority of evergreen
screening mechanical equipment and loading docks; softening large expanses of
building walls; and accenting entrances and architectural features of the
building.
   D.   Perimeter Landscaping Requirements: In addition to the general design
criteria prescribed in Section
17.606.C: Landscape Plan Design Criteria, all nonresidential and multiple-
family development shall provide perimeter landscaping as prescribed. Parking
lots located on the perimeter of a lot shall comply with the requirements of
Section 17.604.B.2: Parking Lot Perimeter Landscaping of this Article.
      1.   Nonresidential Property Abutting Nonresidential Property: Where
nonresidential property abuts property in a business, office or industrial
district, landscaping shall be provided as follows:
         a.   Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of one for each
seventy-five feet (75'), or fraction thereof, of frontage along the abutting
property line. Such trees shall be planted no more than forty feet (40') apart
and may be clustered or spaced linearly as determined appropriate.
         b.   Other landscaping materials, including berms, ornamental trees,
conifers, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live planting materials shall be
provided at locations along the abutting property line to further screen
mechanical equipment, storage areas, large building expanses and other
unsightly aspects of the site.
      2.   Nonresidential Property Abutting Residential Property: Where
nonresidential property abuts property in a residential district, landscaping
shall be provided as follows:
         a.   A solid screen six feet (6') in height shall be provided along
the entire length of the abutting property line. Such screen shall consist of a
solid wood fence, berms, trees, conifers, shrubbery, and/or other live planting
materials, necessary to provide one hundred percent (100%) coverage.
         b.   Twenty percent (20%) of all screening materials provided shall be
evergreen shrubs and trees.
         c.   Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of one for each
seventy five feet (75'), or fraction thereof, of frontage along the abutting
property line. Such trees shall not be planted more than forty feet (40') apart
and may be clustered or spaced linearly as determined appropriate.
         d.   Alley Exemption: Where a nonresidential property is separated
from an abutting residential property by an ally providing access to utilities,
trash removal, deliveries, or other services, the Development Administrator may
provide relief from this Section 17.604.D.2. In granting such relief, the
Development Administrator shall consider the extent to which the intent of this
Article can be met by providing other forms of landscaping and screening.
      3.   Multiple-Family Residential Property: Where multiple-family
residential use abuts property in any zoning district, landscaping shall be
provided as follows:
         a.   Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of not less than
one for each seventy-five feet (75'), or fraction thereof, of frontage along
the abutting property line. Such trees shall not be planted more than forty
feet (40') apart and may be clustered or spaced linearly as appropriate.
         b.   Other landscaping materials, including berms, if possible,
ornamental trees, conifers, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live planting
materials shall be provided at intermittent locations across fifty percent
(50%) of the abutting property line. Shrubs shall be placed in clusters
containing at least seven (7) per cluster, spaced at intervals of approximately
thirty-five feet (35') along the abutting property line.
   E.   Right-Of-Way Landscaping Requirements: In addition to the general
design criteria prescribed in Section 17.606.C: Landscape Plan Design Criteria,
the following requirements shall also apply to landscaping in rights-of-way:
      1.   Scope: Where a zoning lot abuts a dedicated public right-of-way,
trees shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of this Article, the
City of Wood Dale Engineering Design and Development Standards Manual and
Section
6.504 of the City Code. One street tree shall be planted for every forty feet
(40') of frontage, except as otherwise authorized by the Director of Public
Works.
      2.   Street Trees: The City shall have the discretion to require trees be
planted outside of the right-of-way if the parkway is too narrow or overhead or
buried utilities may conflict with the growth of street trees.
   F.   Service Area Screening: Service areas, utilities, loading docks and any
outdoor storage areas of nonresidential and multifamily residential properties
shall be screened if visible from a public right of way or adjacent property.
Screening shall be equally effective at all times of the year and meet the
following standards as determined through the Site Plan Review process outlined
in Article II: Administration and Enforcement.
      1.   Refuse collection areas shall be screened as required in Section
17.302.M.2: Trash Enclosures.
      2.   All utility equipment (meters, transformers, etc.) shall be provided
with the majority of evergreen planting screens to mitigate unsightly views.
      3.   All service doors and loading areas on nonresidential property shall
be concealed from view (at grade) by a majority evergreen landscape material.
      4.   Outdoor storage areas that exceed eight feet (8') in height shall be
screened with landscaping equal to or exceeding the height of the materials to
be stored, in addition to other requirements specified in this Chapter.
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-2024; Ord. O-25-011, 3-20-
2025)
Sec. 17.605. Administration Of Landscaping and Tree Preservation Regulations.
   A.   Variations from Requirements of this Article: The City recognizes the
variety of developments and site configurations may warrant flexibility in
applying standards set forth in Section
17.602: Tree Preservation and Section
17.604: Landscaping and Screening of this Article. In instances where 1) unique
site conditions, 2) visibility of businesses, 3) safe site access, and 4)
limitations on availability of plant material create a practical difficulty in
meeting the standards of these Sections, the Development Administrator may
authorize deviations not more than twenty five percent (25%) from the
requirements set forth in those subsections. Whenever such deviations are
allowed or required from Sections
17.602 and
17.603, the Development Administrator shall find that the intent of this
Article is met and the least amount of relief necessary shall be allowed. When
a variation is granted, the applicant shall enter on the face of the landscape
plan the reasons for allowing or requiring deviation from the requirements of
the sections specified here.
   B.   Innovative Landscaping: Innovative landscaping treatments (such as
Section
17.607 Best Management Practices described in this Article) are encouraged and
shall be considered as an additional or alternative installation to the
requirements of this Article. These planting treatments shall be submitted as
part of the Landscape Plan and be considered as part of the Site Plan Review
process specified in Article II: Administration and Enforcement.
   C.   Certificate of Occupancy: All required landscaping shall be installed
prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy, except in keeping with the
following:
      1.   If weather conditions or other circumstances beyond the developer’s
control prevent installation of all or portions of the landscape materials and
all other requirements for the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy have been
met, a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy may be issued.
      2.   In the case of a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy being issued for
landscaping, a bond or a performance guarantee approved by the City Attorney to
ensure completion of approved landscaping shall be filed with the Development
Administrator. The amount of the performance guarantee and the required
completion data shall be recommended by the Development Administrator based on
current costs and set by the City. If such a bond or performance guarantee has
already been submitted for the proposed landscape improvements, the City may
permit the developer to extend the performance guarantee for an additional
specified period of time.
      3.   A Temporary Certificate of Occupancy issued in regard to landscaping
shall be valid only until the subsequent July 1st. At that time, 1) the
required landscaping shall be installed, 2) an extension granted by the
Development Administrator due to continuation of unique circumstances, or 3)
the amount of the bond or performance guarantee shall be forfeit to the City.
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.606. Landscape Plans.
   A.   Landscape Plan Preparation: Any Landscape Plan submitted to meet the
requirements of this Chapter shall be prepared by a Registered or Professional
Landscape Architect. Others preparing such plans shall evidence to the
Development Administrator equivalent experience or competencies to prepare a
Landscape Plan that meets the regulations and design standards specified in
this Article.
   B.   Information Required on Landscape Plans: All Landscape Plans submitted
shall include the following:
      1.   Contact Information: The preparer’s contact information.
      2.   Base Information: Scale, north arrow, and date of preparation.
      3.   Site Improvements: The location of existing and proposed
improvements; including, but not limited to, buildings, with entry and exit
points identified; all utilities, lighting, walls, and fences, parking areas
(spaces delineated, including handicapped spaces, curbs); contours; existing
and proposed berms; existing (6 inch dbh and larger with drip line) and
proposed plant material; paved surfaces; sign locations; public rights-of-way
and easements, including street widths; refuse collection areas; property
lines; and other exterior landscape amenities, such as bike paths, plazas,
architectural paving, flagpoles, foundations, benches, and bicycle racks.
      4.   Planting Schedule: The planting schedule listing botanical names,
common names, size or height, and quantity.
      5.   Ground Surfaces: The proposed treatment of all ground surfaces (such
as ground covers, sod, seed and/or prairie).
      6.   Tree Plan: Tree Preservation and Removal Plan.
      7.   Technical Information: Samples, details, and/or photographs of
materials to be used for light standards, benches, fences, walls, signage,
safety lighting, and other site details.
      8.   Installation of Plant Materials: Plant materials of all types and
species shall be installed in accordance with the most recent publication of
the American Standard for Nursery Stock as approved by American National
Standards Institute and issued as ANSI Z60.1.
      9.   Maintenance of Plant Material: A means of irrigating plant material
shall be provided. Installation of an automatic underground sprinkling system
is recommended.
      10.   Supporting Information: Drawings providing support information
regarding landscape installation and maintenance: 1) irrigation plans, 2)
grading and drainage plan (showing spot elevations and/or cross section,) and
3) methods to be used to protect plants and planted areas, (e.g., curbs, ties,
walls).
      11.   Design / Character Information: Provide 1) elevations, 2) cross
sections, 3) samples and/or photographs to indicate texture of exposed
surfaces, landscape material, scale, color of exposed surfaces, and planting in
relation to buildings.
      12.   The Development Administrator may waive the requirement for any of
the submission materials in this Section 17.606.B upon request by the applicant
and sufficient indication that such information is not relevant or necessary to
adequately review the Landscape Plan.
   C.   Landscape Plan Design Criteria: The Landscape Plan shall evidence to
the City that the following design criteria will be met.
      1.   Scale and Nature of Landscape Materials: The scale and nature of
landscape material shall be appropriate to the site and the structures thereon.
      2.   Selection of Plant Material: Planting materials used in conformance
with the provisions of this Article shall be of good quality and of a species
normally grown in northeastern Illinois that is:
         a.   Capable of withstanding the extremes of individual site
microclimates.
         b.   Selected for interest in its structure, texture, and color for
its ultimate growth.
         c.   Harmonious to the design, and of good appearance.   
         d.   In conformance with the most recent publication of the American
Standard for Nursery Stock as approved by American National Standards Institute
and issued as ANSI Z60.1.
      3.   Planting Beds: Planting beds shall be mulched in their entirety with
shredded bark or other similar organic material. Lava rock or large diameter
(1½ inch diameter or larger) bark chips (“chunk bark”) are not acceptable.
Gravel and stone mulches are not permitted, unless specifically approved in
writing by the Development Administrator upon finding that other materials
cannot survive in the location or create a safety hazard. Mulch beds shall be
designed so that at time of planting they extend a minimum of two feet (2')
beyond the center of a shrub.
      4.   Detention/Retention Basins and Ponds: Detention/retention basin and
pond areas shall be planted. Such plantings shall include shade and ornamental
trees, conifers, shrubbery, hedges and/or other live planting materials. Plants
must be able to tolerate wet conditions if planted within the basin.
      5.   Energy Conservation:
         a.   Deciduous trees, shrubs and vines should dominate the south and
west sides of buildings and plaza areas to provide shade during the summer and
limited shade during winter.
         b.   Coniferous and other plant materials should be concentrated on
the north side of buildings in a manner that dissipates the effect of winter
winds.
         c.   Water Conservation: Wherever possible landscape designs and plant
material that is indigenous and/or drought tolerant should be used to reduce
the need for irrigation.
         d.   Berms: Earthen berms and existing topography shall, wherever
practical, be incorporated into the landscape treatment of a site. Berms shall
not exceed a maximum slope of four horizontal units to one vertical unit (4:1),
except in parking islands, where the maximum slope shall not exceed two
horizontal units to one vertical unit (2:1).
         e.   Topography: Where natural, existing topographic patterns
contribute to the beauty and utility of a development, they shall be preserved
and developed. Modification of topography may be allowed where it contributes
to the aesthetic quality of the site.
         f.   Protection of Plant Material and/or People: In locations where
plant materials may be susceptible to injury or cause personal injury,
appropriate curbs, tree guards, or other devices shall be provided.
         g.   Areas Where Plant Material Will Not Prosper: In areas where
general planting will not prosper, other materials such as fences, walls and
pavings of wood, brick, stone, and cobbles shall be used. Carefully selected
plant material shall be combined with such materials where possible.
         h.   Exterior Landscape Lighting: Lighting standards and fixtures when
used to enhance the building design and the adjoining landscape shall be of a
size and design compatible with the building and adjacent areas. Lighting shall
be restrained in design, and excessive brightness and brilliant colors shall be
avoided. Electrical service shall be underground.
         i.   Amenities: In business, office and industrial districts seating
areas, paved areas, plant enclosures, benches, waste receptacles, lights, and
other amenities shall be provided where appropriate.
         j.   Edging: Edging is recommended to separate grass areas from
shrubs, ground cover and mulch and shall be a good quality steel, plastic, or
weather resistant (redwood, cedar) or treated wood secured with stakes.
         k.   Ground Cover: All drainage swales and slopes having a slope of
four vertical units to one horizontal unit (4:1) or greater shall be sodded.
All other ground areas not covered by buildings, parking, sidewalks or other
impervious surfaces, or occupied by planting beds shall be graded smooth with a
minimum of six inches (6") of black dirt after compacting and removing stumps,
rocks and other debris, and shall be seeded or sodded to prevent soil erosion
and sedimentation of public drainage systems, creeks, streams, rivers and
wetlands.
         l.   Flowerbeds: Flowerbeds are encouraged and shall be planted in
masses in acceptable areas to create color, texture and visual interest.
   D.   Guidelines for Reviewing Landscape Plans: A Landscape Plan shall be
approved if the following conditions are satisfied:
      1.   The use of shrubs, flowers, berms and ground cover are used
appropriately to enhance the overall appearance and function of the site or
open spaces on the site;
      2.   The planting of shade and ornamental and coniferous trees is used to
define and enhance spaces on the site;
      3.   The use of planting material to effectively screen adjacent dwelling
units, service areas, and parking areas;
      4.   The use of planting material to contribute to water conservation and
energy efficiency;
      5.   The use of planting material seasonal color, texture, size and form
to create seasonal and visual interest and appeal in the community;
      6.   The composition, number, location, species of landscape material,
berms, fences and other features, and supporting documentation are provided as
required by this Article. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.607. Best Management Practices (BMPs).
Best Management Practices (BMPs), including those described in this Section
17.607, are encouraged in developments through appropriate application of
landscape design, site construction and landscape maintenance practices. Use of
BMPs may be used to off-set a portion of stormwater management requirements if,
at the sole discretion of the City Engineer, the applicant provides evidence by
a licensed engineer that such offsets are feasible and the applicant provides a
plan for ongoing maintenance and sufficiency of such facilities. Should the
applicant or subsequent owners fail to maintain BMPs as effective stormwater
management elements, the City Engineer or Public Works Director, at their sole
discretion, may require repair of such BMPs or replacement with conventional
stormwater management systems as may be needed to meet the intent and standards
of the City Code.
   A.   Sustainable Development Standards. Green design considers the
environment and site during design, construction, operations and maintenance.
In evaluating site plans with BMPs in the Site Plan Review process spelled out
in Article II: Administration and Enforcement, the City shall consider all
relevant engineering and design standards as well as the standards of this
Section shall be evaluated in regard to sustainable building design, site
planning, streetscape/landscape design and infrastructure engineering. The
following considerations should be included in site and building design and
construction when incorporating BMPs:
      1.   Optimize building orientation for heat gain, solar shading,
daylighting and natural ventilation.
      2.   Design landscape, hardscape and building roofs to create comfortable
micro-climates and reduce heat island effects.
      3.   Select native landscape materials and reuse rainwater and graywater
where feasible and allowed by Code to reduce or eliminate the need for potable
water in the irrigation of landscape.
      4.   Increase water efficiency through the use of high-efficiency systems
and fixtures or through rainwater and graywater reuse as allowed by Code to
decrease use of the City’s water supply and wastewater system.
      5.   Design all sites and buildings to be “transit-supportive” to
facilitate access to existing and future transit services.
      6.   Use sustainable, rapidly renewable or recycled building materials.
      7.   Use building materials manufactured within the region.
      8.   Design and select lighting and equipment for efficient energy use.
      9.   Minimize off-site light pollution.
      10.   Create healthy, comfortable indoor environments through increased
natural lighting, control of thermal systems, reduced VOCs (volatile organic
compounds) and improved indoor air-quality and ventilation.
      11.   Maximize on-site stormwater management through landscaping and
permeable pavement as well as shared facilities.
      12.   Maintain or reduce the peak stormwater discharge rate and quantity.
      13.   Enact plans to control erosion, sedimentation and dust during
construction.
      14.   Conduct commissioning of building energy systems to ensure desired
performance.
      15.   Include on-site renewable energy sources (such as solar, wind,
geothermal) where feasible.
      16.   Reduce or eliminate heating, ventilation, air conditioning and
refrigeration equipment that emits compounds that contribute to ozone depletion
and climate change.
      17.   Provide for an easily accessible, dedicated area for the collection
and storage of materials for recycling
      18.   Incorporate universal design into building plans where feasible.
   B.   Permeable Pavement and Pavers: Permeable pavement and pavers are an
alternative method of hard surface that allows stormwater runoff to filter
through voids material. The use of this porous material can help promote the
natural cleaning and infiltration of water, instead of allowing it to wash into
streets and down storm drains. Use of this material may be allowed in
designated drive or path areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2978.png]
 
   C.   Bioswales or Retention Ponds: Bioswales and Retention ponds are
vegetated landscaped depressions that capture, treat, and slow down stormwater
runoff. They provide a more aesthetically pleasing environment than the typical
required concrete stormwater fixtures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2980.png]
 
   D.    Parking Lot Drainage: Stormwater drainage is an integral component in
the design of parking lots. Stormwater may be infiltrated into the parking lot
planting areas and then drained to a specified area. This approach can clean,
detail, and direct stormwater.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2982.png]
 
   E.   Green Roofs: Green roofs incorporate plants into the roofing system to
reduce pervious surfaces and stormwater runoff. These systems can serve as
short term stormwater management to reduce, delay, and clean stormwater runoff
from a site. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
ARTICLE VII
NON-CONFORMING LOTS, BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
17.701. Purpose
17.702. Determination Of Nonconforming Status
17.703. General Provisions
17.704. Specific Nonconforming Regulations
17.705. Limited Nonconformity Exceptions
Sec. 17.701. Purpose.
The purpose of this Article is to govern three types of nonconformities: lots,
structures, and uses. A nonconformity is a lot, structure, or use that was
lawfully established but-because of the adoption of new or amended regulations-
no longer complies with one or more requirements of this code. The regulations
of this Article establish the standards under which nonconformities can be
altered, expanded, or allowed to continue. This Article also provides for:
   A.   The regulation and short-term maintenance of those nonconforming lots,
structures and uses which substantially and adversely affect the orderly
development and taxable value of other conforming property in each district;
and
   B.   The gradual elimination of nonconforming lots, structures and uses to
those that conform to the provisions of this Article by specifying the
circumstances and conditions under which nonconforming lots, structures and
uses shall be permitted with restriction in order to accomplish the objectives
of this Code without undue burden to any single property owner, in accordance
with the authority granted by Illinois Statutes.
   C.   The establishment of a system to enable certain nonconforming lots,
structures, and uses intended to be granted an exception to these regulation
and provide greater flexibility than the category of “nonconforming uses” in
the continuation, expansion or enlargement of existing land uses still
permitted in the subject zone district, but which no longer comply with this
Code’s use limitations. Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.702. Determination of Nonconforming Status.
   A.   The burden of proving that a nonconformity exists (as opposed to a
violation of this Article) rests entirely with the property owner. However, the
Development Administrator will maintain a current inventory of all known
nonconforming lots, structures, and uses within the city, including those
created after the adoption of any partial or comprehensive amendment to this
code.
   B.   The Development Administrator is authorized to determine whether
adequate proof of nonconforming status has been provided by the subject owner.
   C.   Building permits, lawfully recorded plats, aerial photography owned by
the City and other official government records that indicated lawful
establishment of the lot, structure or use constitute conclusive evidence of
nonconforming status. If such forms of conclusive evidence are not available,
the Development Administrator is authorized to consider whether other forms of
evidence provided by the subject owner are reliable and adequate to document
nonconforming status. Examples of evidence that may be considered include, but
are not limited to:
      1.   Professional registrations or licenses;
      2.   Utility billing records; and
      3.   Leasing records. Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.703. General Provisions.
   A.   Elimination Of Nonconforming Structures and Uses: In accordance with
the provisions of this Article VII, it is hereby declared to be the intent of
the City to eliminate nonconforming uses and structures.
   B.   Authority To Continue Nonconforming Lots, Structures and Uses: Any
nonconforming lot, structure or use which was nonconforming at the time of the
adoption of this Article and which remains nonconforming and any lot, structure
or use which shall become nonconforming upon the adoption of this Article or of
any subsequent amendments thereto, may be continued subject to the regulations
which follow.
   C.   Continued Status of Nonconformity: Nonconforming status rests with the
property, not with the subject owner and shall run with the land. Such status
is not affected by changes in ownership, lessees, or management.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Subsection 17.703.C, any such
nonconforming use will be operated and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of this Article VII and all applicable provisions of this Unified
Development Code.
   D.   Maintenance and Repair of Nonconforming Lots and Structures:
Nonconforming lots and structures carry the same obligations and requirements
for safe upkeep as conforming lots and structures. Incidental repairs and
normal maintenance necessary to keep a nonconformity in compliance with the
City Building and Property Maintenance Codes are permitted unless otherwise
expressly prohibited in this Article. Normal maintenance and incidental repair
or replacement of fencing, nonbearing walls and partitions, fixtures, wiring,
plumbing, parking, landscaping and mechanical equipment may be performed on any
nonconforming lot or structure. Nothing in this Article shall be deemed to
prevent the strengthening or restoration of an unsafe structure in accordance
with any order of a public official charged with protecting public safety, and
who finds such structure is unsafe in its then present condition, and that
repair or restoration is not in violation of the provisions of this Article
governing the restoration of partially damaged or destroyed structures.
   E.   Previous Nonconforming Lots, Structures and Uses: Any nonconforming
lot, structure or use which existed prior to the effective date of this Article
which is made lawful and conforming as a result of the provisions of this
Article shall be considered as conforming.
   F.   Abandonment:
      1.   Abandonment is the voluntary discontinuance of a nonconforming use
or the occupancy of a nonconforming structure, when accompanied by the intent
not to reestablish such use or occupancy. Any one of the following conclusively
establishes an intent to abandon, and after which the use must conform to all
applicable regulations of this code:
         a.   Any positive act indicating such intent; or
         b.   Any conscious failure to take all necessary steps to resume the
nonconforming use or occupancy with diligence in the circumstances, including
advertising of the property for sale or for lease; or
         c.   In the case of a nonconforming structure which is damaged by
means out of control of the owner to an extent of less than fifty percent (50%)
of the cost of restoration of the entire structure, failure to commence
restoration within six (6) months from the date of partial destruction, or
conclude restoration within two (2) years from the time restoration
construction is initiated.
      2.   In addition, each of the following situations concerning specific
types of uses will conclusively establish an abandonment:
         a.   Nonconforming Use of Land: When a nonconforming use of land is
abandoned, or an accessory use of land to the nonconforming principle use of
land, is abandoned for a period of ninety (90) consecutive days, or for a total
of six (6) months during any one year period (regardless of any reservation of
an intent not to abandon or to resume such use of land), such use of land will
not thereafter be reestablished or resumed. Any subsequent use or occupancy of
such land or structures shall comply with the regulations of the zoning
district in which such land is located.
         b.   Nonconforming Use of Structure: The abandonment of any
nonconforming use of a structure for a period of twelve (12) consecutive
months, regardless of owner intent, shall terminate any rights conferred by
this Article to continue such nonconforming use. Any subsequent use or
occupancy of such land or structures shall comply with the regulations of the
zoning district in which such land is located.
         c.   Nonconforming Accessory Uses: No use which is accessory to a
principal nonconforming use shall continue after such principal nonconforming
use shall have been ceased or terminated. Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.704. Specific Nonconforming Regulations.
   A.   Nonconforming Lots: A nonconforming lot is a lot that was lawfully
created in accordance with lot area, lot width and lot depth regulations in
effect at the time of the lot’s establishment but does not comply with
currently applicable lot area, width or depth regulations.
      1.   Continuation of Substandard Lots of Record: In a district,
notwithstanding the regulations imposed by any other provision of this code, a
building which complies with the restrictions in subsection 17.704.A.2. may be
erected on a lot that is at least fifty feet (50') in width and not under
common ownership with an immediately adjacent lot that:
         a.   Has less than the prescribed minimum lot area or lot width or lot
depth, or all three (3);
         b.   Is shown by a plan or deed recorded at the DuPage County Recorder
of Deeds to have been owned separately and individually from adjoining tracts
of land during the entire time that the creation of such lot has been
prohibited by this Article.
      2.   Yard Requirements for Nonconforming Lots: Construction permitted by
subsection 17.704.A.1. will comply with all the regulations, except lot area,
lot width and/or lot depth, applicable in the zoning district in which the lot
is located, provided, however, that the following said yard requirements shall
apply in place of the side yard requirements otherwise applicable:
         a.   A building shall be placed on the lot so as to provide a yard on
each side of the dwelling building within a residential zoning district.
         b.   Except as otherwise approved by the City Council through its
approval of a Planned Unit Development, required side yards of the principal
building shall not be less than ten percent (10%) of the width of the lot, and
in no case shall required side yards be less than five feet (5') in width, and
in no case shall a residential building be located less than ten feet (10')
from a building on an adjoining lot.
      3.   Lot Consolidation of Nonconforming Lots: When two (2) or more
contiguous nonconforming lots are held in common ownership, the lots must be
consolidated in order to meet or come closer to meeting applicable minimum lot
area, width and depth requirements, except that lot consolidations are not
required when a building addition does not exceed two hundred fifty (250)
square feet or the construction of an accessory structure does not exceed five
hundred (500) square feet.   
      4.   Accessory Uses: No new accessory use may be added to (a) any
nonconforming lot or (b) any conforming lot with a nonconforming principle
structure.
   B.   Nonconforming Structures: A nonconforming structure is any structure
that was lawfully established but no longer complies with applicable lot and
building regulations or other dimensional or locational requirements of this
Article.
      1.   Alteration of Nonconforming Structures: Subject to the provisions
for limited nonconforming exceptions in Section
17.705, any nonconforming structure may be altered or remodeled provided,
however, that no such alteration or remodeling shall either create any
additional nonconformity or increase the existing nonconformity of all or part
of the building or structure, except that as to structures located on a lot
which does not comply with the applicable lot size requirements, the side yard
requirements shall be determined by subsection 17.704.A.2.
      2.   Restoration: In the event a nonconforming structure is destroyed or
damaged by fire or other casualty or act of God, such building may be restored
only if the cost of reconstruction to its condition prior to the casualty does
not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the replacement cost of the entire structure
- as determined in accordance with Code - and providing no restoration or
reconstruction shall be undertaken unless it is started within one year from
the date of notice by the Development Administrator of this provision or the
date of the casualty destruction, whichever is later, and completed within
twelve (12) months from the date of the casualty. The Development Administrator
may, but is not obligated to, grant up to two (2) 6-month extensions for cause.
      3.   Relocation: No nonconforming structure shall be moved in whole or in
part to any other location on the same or any other lot unless every portion of
said structure is made to conform to all of the regulations of the district in
which it is to be relocated.
      4.   Damage or Destruction: In the event that any nonconforming structure
that is devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming use is damaged or
destroyed, by any means, to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of the
cost of replacement of the structure new - as determined in accordance with
this Code - such structure shall not be restored unless it and the use thereof
shall thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning district in which it
is located. When such damage or destruction is fifty percent (50%) or less of
the cost of replacement, no repairs or restoration shall be made unless a
zoning certificate is obtained in accordance with subsection 17.401.C of this
Article and restoration is actually begun within one year after the date of
such partial destruction and is diligently pursued to completion.
      5.   Accessory Uses: No new accessory use may be added to (a) any
nonconforming lot or (b) any conforming lot with a nonconforming principle
structure.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses:
      1.   Change of Use: A nonconforming use of land or a structure shall not
be changed to any use other than a use permitted in the zoning district in
which the use is located. When a nonconforming use of land or a structure has
been changed to any permitted use, it shall not thereafter be changed back to a
nonconforming use. For purposes of this section, a use shall be deemed to have
been so changed when an existing nonconforming use shall have been terminated
and a conforming use shall have commenced.
      2.   Expansion of Use: The nonconforming use may not be expanded or
extended beyond the area the use occupied at the time the use became
nonconforming except in conformance with subsection 17.705.A. of this Article.
      3.   Damage or Destruction: In the event that any structure that is
devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed, by
any means, to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of the cost of
replacement of the structure new - as determined in accordance with this Code -
such structure shall not be restored unless it and the use thereof shall
thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located. When such damage or destruction is fifty percent (50%) or less of the
cost of replacement new, no repairs or restoration shall be made unless a
zoning certificate is obtained in accordance with subsection 17.701.C of this
Article and restoration is actually begun within one year after the date of
such partial destruction is diligently pursued to completion.
      4.   Relocation: No nonconforming use of land or structure shall be moved
in whole or in part of any distance whatsoever, to another location on the same
lot or any other lot, unless such use shall thereafter conform to all
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located after so moved. Ord.
O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.705. Limited Nonconformity Exceptions.
   A.   Development Administrator Authority in Special Cases Only: The
Development Administrator may authorize, upon application in specific cases, an
exception permitting an increase:
      1.   in either, or both, the zoning lot area or the gross floor area in a
structure or structures occupied by a nonconforming use as are necessary and
essential to enable the owner of the use to comply with lawful requirements of
the federal, state, or city; or
      2.   in the existing nonconforming use on an existing zoning lot where
(a) as a result of a property owner acquiring additional adjoining property or
(b) an act of government through vacation of right-of-way that creates
additional private land area abutting the existing zoning lot.
   B.   Procedure and Required Findings: All applications for a limited
nonconformity exception under this Section 17.705 will be reviewed according to
the following procedures:
      1.   Initiation: The owner[s] of the subject property or the owner’s
authorized agent may initiate an application for limited nonconformity
exception.
      2.   Pre-Application Meeting: A pre-application meeting with the
Development Administrator is optional before submittal of a limited
nonconformity exception application. The Development Administrator’s opinions
or comments made during a pre-application meeting are informational only and do
not represent a commitment on behalf of the city regarding a final decision on
the limited nonconformity exception application. However, at the pre-
application meeting the Development Administrator may waive application
submittal requirements or request that additional information be submitted.
      3.   Application and Fees:
         a.   Submittal in Writing. All applications for a limited
nonconforming exception will be submitted in writing to Development
Administrator. The applicant will pay all required fees at the same time the
application is submitted.
         b.   Concurrent Applications. The applicant may submit a limited
nonconformity exception application concurrent with the submittal of other
applications. In no case, however, shall a building permit be issued until the
limited nonconforming exception according to this Section 17.705 is approved.
      4.   Review, Referral and Final Decision: The Development Administrator
may refer the limited nonconforming exception application to other affected or
interested state and local agencies, city departments and parties for review
and comment, as deemed necessary to make a decision on the application. The
Development Administrator will make a final decision to approve, approve with
conditions, or deny the application, taking into consideration relevant
comments. Wherever higher or more restrictive standards are established by the
provisions of this code, the Development Administrator may take these
provisions into consideration in making a final decision.
      5.   Review Criteria: The Development Administrator will use the
following criteria in making a decision on an application for a limited
nonconformity exception application:
         a.   the application is consistent with all prior approvals for the
subject property.
         b.   the application complies with all other applicable regulations in
this code except those specifically the subject of the limited nonconforming
exception.
         c.   the use is a nonconforming use as defined in this code, is in
full compliance with all requirements of this code applicable to nonconforming
uses, and is not a nonconforming use which is to be terminated by operation of
law.
   C.   Timing for Decisions: Any decision for a limited nonconforming
exception will be made by the Development Administrator within 45-days after
receipt of a completed application complying with the requirements of this
Section 17.705, unless the property owner and Development Administrator agree
in writing to a longer review period. Failure of the Development Administrator
to issue his or her written decision with 45-days, or as may be extended by
agreement of the property owner and director, will be a decision to deny the
application.
   D.   Limited Nonconforming Exceptions Personal to Owner: A limited
nonconforming exception authorized by this Section 17.705 is personal to the
property owner and is not transferable, and will only run with the land after
construction of any authorized structure or structures and only for the life of
such structure or structures.
   E.   Community Development Commission Authority to Grant Variances for Other
Expansions; Jurisdiction on Appeal:
      1.   The Community Development Commission may grant other exceptions to
the nonconforming provision of this Article that are not otherwise limited
nonconforming exceptions under its power to grant variances, subject to the
procedures and applicable criteria stated in Section
17.202.C.7.e. and Section
17.204.C. of this UDO.
      2.   The Community Development Commission will hear all appeals from any
decision of the Development Administrator, subject to the procedures and
applicable criteria stated in Section
17.204. Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
ARTICLE VIII
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES AND
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS
SECTION:
17.801. General Provisions
17.802. Major Subdivision Procedures
17.803. Minor Subdivision Procedures
17.804. Vacation Of Recorded Plats
17.805. Plats Of Consolidation
17.806. Tax Divisions
17.807. Plats Of Dedication
17.808. Development Review
17.809. Establishment Of Performance Guarantee
17.8010. Modifications Of The Requirements Of This Article
17.8011. Amendments To Subdivision And Development Article
17.8012. Compliance And Enforcement
17.8013. Penalties
17.8014. Fees
17.8015. Parks And School Land Contributions
Sec. 17.801. General Provisions.
   A.   Purposes: This Chapter establishes the procedure to be followed by a
landowner or developer who proposes to subdivide or develop any land subject to
the terms of this Code. Applicants will be required to consolidate petitions
for subdivision, development, zoning relief or annexation in one proceeding.
This section identifies the contents of preliminary and final plats, plans and
supporting data. This section establishes a review process, and enumerates
standards governing decisions made under this Article. In addition, this
Article establishes applicable subdivision improvements standards required by
the City.
   B.   Authority: This Article is adopted in accordance with the City’s
authority to comprehensively plan for its future economic and land use
development pursuant to Division 12 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/
11-12-1 et seq.
   C.   General Purpose and Intent: The purpose of this Article is to establish
reasonable design standards and procedures for subdivision and development
applications within the corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the City and, further, to promote the public health, safety, comfort, morals
and welfare of the community, including:
      1.   Promote the orderly development of the City and surrounding
unincorporated areas in accordance with the Official Comprehensive Plan;
      2.   Protect the character and maintain the stability of the City and
surrounding unincorporated areas;
      3.   Ensure the proper coordination and installation of streets and other
public improvements and utilities;
      4.   Provide adequate storm drainage and flood control measures;
      5.   Protect valuable natural and cultural resources;
      6.   Protect valuable agricultural resources;
      7.   Promote the logical arrangement of lots for future development;
      8.   Insure proper legal descriptions and placement of survey monuments
for subdivided properties; and
      9.   Guarantee the construction, inspection, dedication and acceptance of
reasonable public improvements.
   D.   Jurisdiction: The requirements of this Article shall be applicable to
any and all subdivisions or Developments of land within the corporate limits of
the City, as may be modified from time to time, as well as all unincorporated
areas within one and one-half (1.5) miles of the corporate limits of the City.
Valid and fully executed jurisdictional boundary line agreements between the
City and other municipalities may take precedence in establishing the
jurisdiction in unincorporated areas, as authorized by Section 11-12-9 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-12-9.
   E.   Official Comprehensive Plan Component: In accordance with Section
17.202.A. of this Code, as amended, this Article is and shall be a part of the
“Official Comprehensive Plan” of the City of Wood Dale.
   F.   Consistency with State Laws Regarding Division of Land: From and after
the effective date of this Code, no lot or tract of land located within the
City or within the area of jurisdiction of the City shall be divided or
redivided in any manner into two or more lesser tracts for building site
purposes, without subdividing or resubdividing and platting such tract in the
manner provided by the statutes of the State of Illinois.
   G.   Types of Subdivisions.
      1.   Major Subdivision. A Major Subdivision is one that involves one or
more of the following activities:
         a.   There are proposed public streets, alleys, easements, parks, and
common areas.
         b.   There are buildings or significant structures on the land to be
subdivided.
         c.   There are required improvements to be made within a public right
of way other than concrete sidewalks, landscaping, monuments, lateral
extensions of sanitary and storm sewers, and water mains.
         d.   There are variances or exceptions requested from this chapter.
         e.   The subject property is being designed and developed as a planned
unit development.
      2.   Minor Subdivision. A subdivision of land into four (4) or fewer
lots, provided that such subdivision does not involve any new or extensions of
existing public streets, alleys, easements, parks, or common areas, or require
any other public improvements, and does not require any modifications of this
Section. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.802. Major Subdivision Procedures.
   A.   The Preliminary Subdivision Plat: No person shall subdivide or develop
any parcel of land until a preliminary subdivision plat shall have been
reviewed and recommended by the Community Development Commission and approved
by the City Council as set forth herein. The Development Administrator may
authorize the simultaneous filing of an application for preliminary and final
subdivision plat approvals without compliance with separate procedures in
particular cases where the nature and scope of the proposed subdivision does
not require separate review procedures.
   B.   Procedures for Reviewing the Preliminary Subdivision Plat:
      1.   City Staff Review of Preliminary Subdivision Plat: Upon receipt of a
complete application, the Development Administrator shall distribute copies of
the application and supporting documents to such city staff and consultants as
appropriate for review and comment concerning compliance with city
requirements. Within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the complete application,
the Development Administrator shall advise the applicant, in writing, that the
preliminary plat conforms or fails to conform to the requirements of this
Chapter or other provisions of this Code. If the preliminary subdivision plat
fails to conform, the Development Administrator shall specify the reasons the
preliminary subdivision plat fails to satisfy city development goals and
requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Community Development Commission Review of Preliminary Subdivision
Plat: Upon receipt of all the material required under Section 17.802.D. of this
Article for the preliminary subdivision plat, the development administrator
shall circulate the preliminary subdivision plat to the Community Development
Commission. The Community Development Commission shall place the matter on its
agenda and shall serve notice upon the applicant of the time and place of its
meeting at which said matter will be discussed. The community development
commission shall forward its written report to the City Council recommending
approval or disapproval of the preliminary subdivision plat within sixty (60)
days from the date of the filing of a complete application, or such other
extended time as may be agreed to between the applicant and the Development
Administrator. If the recommendation is to disapprove, the report shall set
forth the reasons for its disapproval and specify with particularity the
aspects in which the proposed subdivision plat fails to satisfy city
development goals and requirements of this chapter. Failure of the Community
Development Commission to make its recommendation within the 60-day period, or
such agreed extended time, will be considered a recommendation of approval of
the preliminary subdivision plat.
      3.   City Council Review of Preliminary Subdivision Plat: The City
Council, by resolution duly adopted, shall accept or reject the preliminary
subdivision plat within thirty (30) days after its next regularly scheduled
meeting following the date of action of the Community Development Commission,
or such other extended time as may be agreed to between the applicant and the
Development Administrator. If it rejects the preliminary subdivision plat, the
resolution shall set forth the reasons for its disapproval and specify with
particularity the aspects in which the proposed plat fails to satisfy city
development goals and requirements of this chapter. Failure of the City Council
to make its recommendation within the 30-day period, or such agreed extended
time, will be considered denial of the preliminary subdivision plat.
      4.   Modifications; Initial Board Comment and Referral:
         a.   In the event the application for preliminary subdivision plat
approval includes a request for a modification of any provision of this
Chapter, the application will be submitted to the Development Administrator for
initial review and comment, prior to referring the matter to the City Council
for preliminary review. Within 30 days of referral to the City Council, the
City Council, at a regular City Council or Committee of the Whole meeting, will
review the application materials and any member of the City Council may make
any comments, suggestions or recommendations deemed necessary or appropriate
regarding the application.
         b.   The purpose of the review will be to broadly acquaint the City
Council with the applicant’s proposal and to provide the applicant with any
initial views or concerns that members of the City Council may have at an early
stage in the Subdivision review process. Any views expressed in the course of
the City Council’s initial review of the Subdivision and related modification
request are advisory only, preliminary in nature, and the individual views of
the member expressing them. Nothing said or done in the course of the review
will create, or prejudice, any rights of the applicant or to obligate the City
Council, or any member of it, to approve or deny the formal application
following full consideration thereof, as required by this Chapter.
         c.   Public Hearing Required. Within 45 days of the initial City
Council review of the application for preliminary subdivision plat approval and
related modifications of this Article, and after public notice complying with
Section
17.202.E. of this UDO have been satisfied, the Community Development Commission
will conduct a duly noticed public hearing to review the application. The
Community Development Commission will, within 30 days of the initial public
hearing on the application, act to recommend approval, approve with conditions
or disapprove the application and the modification of this Article. The failure
of the Community Development Commission to act within the time period specified
in this Subsection 17.802.4.c., or any additional time to which the applicant
may agree, will be deemed a recommendation for the approval of the preliminary
subdivision plat and the related modifications.
         d.   City Council Approval. Within 30 days of receiving a
recommendation from the Community Development Commission, the City Council will
approve, approve with conditions, approve with modifications, or disapprove.
The failure of the City Council to act within 30 days will be deemed
disapproval.
      5.   Effect of City Council Approval of Preliminary Subdivision Plat:
Approval of the preliminary subdivision plat by the City Council shall not
qualify the preliminary subdivision plat for recording, but shall be considered
permission to prepare the final subdivision plat with detailed plans and
specifications for the proposed subdivision.
      6.   Expiration: Such preliminary subdivision plat approval shall be
effective for no more than one year from the adoption date of the resolution
approving the preliminary subdivision plat, unless, upon written request by the
applicant, the City Council grants an extension of time for up to one
additional year, by resolution duly adopted.
      7.   City Record: A certified copy of the resolution approving or
disapproving the preliminary plat shall be filed in the office of the City
Clerk and shall be attached to said preliminary plat.
   C.   Standards for Review of Preliminary Subdivision Plat: The Community
Development Commission shall recommend approval and the City Council shall
approve a preliminary plat of subdivision unless it makes written findings
specifying the manner in which:
      1.   The design and layout of the subdivision does not conform to the
provisions of this Article.
      2.   The applicant has not made adequate provision to install
improvements required by the Community Development Commission or City Council
under authority of this chapter.
      3.   The preliminary subdivision plat fails to comply with an approved
PUD concept plan.
      4.   The plat does not conform with the Comprehensive Plan, the Official
Map, this Article, city ordinances, or established planning and development
policies of the city.
   D.   Contents of Preliminary Subdivision Plat: Any person proposing to
subdivide any parcel of land shall file with the Development Administrator a
preliminary plat in a quantity and form as required by the Development
Administrator. The preliminary plat or shall include the following:
      1.   General Information: The following general information, where
applicable, shall be shown on the preliminary subdivision plat:
         a.   The name of the proposed subdivision that must include the
subdivider’s name and words “addition to Wood Dale” in the name and shall not
duplicate or resemble the name of any existing subdivision within the city or
the township in which the subject property is located.
         b.   Date of preparation, north arrow, and graphic scale of drawing
which shall be no less than one inch equals two hundred feet (1" = 200') for
areas over one hundred (100) acres and one inch equals one hundred feet (1" =
100') for areas under one hundred (100) acres.
         c.   An identification clearly stating that the map is a preliminary
subdivision plat.
         d.   Legal description of the parcel.
         e.   The name and address of the record owner, the applicant, the
surveyor, licensed professional engineer, land planner, or architect who
prepared the subdivision plat.
         f.   A vicinity map showing the general location of the parcel within
the city and environs.
         g.   Completed application form signed by the owner of the land to be
subdivided or developed and the required application fees.
         h.   The name and address of the owners of record of all adjacent
parcels.
         i.   A table of subdivision data indicating the number of lots; the
total acreage of the property stated in hundredths (0.01) of an acre; the
acreage of any public open spaces; the acreage of all right of way; the minimum
lot size stated in square feet; the average lot size; and the existing and
proposed zoning.
      2.   Existing Conditions: The following conditions, if found to exist on
the parcel and on all adjacent land within one hundred feet (100') of the
boundaries of the subject property, shall be shown on an existing conditions
exhibit which shall be a separate drawing from the preliminary subdivision
plat:
         a.   The location, width and names of all streets within or adjacent
the parcel together with easements, public utility and railroad rights of way,
and other important features such as adjacent lot lines, municipal boundary
lines, section lines, corners and monuments.
         b.   The location of all existing structures, showing those that will
remain on the parcel after the final plat is recorded.
         c.   Topographic data, including contour lines at vertical intervals
of not more than two feet (2') with reference to USGS datum or at a more
frequent interval if required by the Development Administrator for land having
unusual topography.
         d.   The location and direction of all rivers, seeps, springs,
flowings and wells; lakes, ponds, wetlands and any detention basins showing
their normal shorelines, flood limits and lines of inflow and outflow, if any;
and watercourses and the location of all areas subject to flooding, including
the flow lines of rivers, streams and channels showing their normal shorelines
and the 100-year floodplain and floodway limits certified by either the
Illinois State water survey, the Illinois Department of Transportation, the
Army Corps of Engineers, by the National Flood Insurance rate program or on the
Federal Emergency Management Administration’s flood boundary and floodway maps.
         e.   Natural features such as rock outcroppings, wooded areas, and
trees greater than six inches (6") in diameter as measured at breast height.
         f.   A map showing the location, size, material, and condition of all
agriculture drain tile and laterals on the property. To determine this, an
investigation shall be conducted making rational assumptions as to where tiles
are typically located based on the topography of the site. A slit trench by
backhoe or tractor shall be a minimum of three feet (3') wide, five feet (5')
deep and six feet (6') in length. To fully map field tile locations, slit
trench excavation and field staking should occur at a minimum one hundred foot
(100') intervals with confirmation of the route between each interval through
the use of additional slit trench, hand probes, or electronic location devices.
The location and size of existing sanitary and storm sewers, water mains,
culverts, drainpipes, catch basins, manholes, hydrants within the parcel and in
adjacent streets or rights of way, and fire flow information from the proposed
source.
         g.   Zoning classifications of the subject property and of adjacent
lands.
         h.   Present uses of the subject property including the location of
all existing structures, indicating which structures will be removed and which
will remain on the subject property after the development is complete.
         i.   The location on and within one hundred feet (100') of the subject
property of all property lines, easements of record; the uses, zoning and
ownership of all parcels; railroads, bridges, culverts, storm sewers, sanitary
sewers, water main, detention/retention facilities, also indicating surface and
invert grade elevations of catch basins, manholes, culverts and fire hydrants;
existing buildings and their use(s) and foundation elevations and their future
disposition; buried structures; and location of significant natural features
and areas of likely archaeological significance or habitat for endangered flora
and fauna species.
         j.   A copy of the wetland delineation report.
         k.   The locations of existing monuments or survey markers on or
adjacent the subject property.
         l.   The location and description of all other existing improvements,
including, but not limited to, culverts, towers, poles, and other aboveground
and underground utilities.
      3.   Proposed Improvements: The following improvements, if proposed or
required, shall be shown on the plat or in supporting documents:
         a.   The location, dimension and names of all proposed street and
alley rights of way. The preliminary plat or development plan shall show the
relationship between existing and proposed streets.
         b.   Lots showing approximate dimensions, minimum lot sizes and
proposed lot numbers.
         c.   Sites to be dedicated for school, park, playground or other
public purposes, together with appropriate acreage of each.
         d.   Proposed building setback lines with dimensions.
         e.   If the proposed subdivision will be constructed in phases, the
limits and location of proposed units shall be shown.
         f.   The location, dimensions and area (in square feet) of all
proposed lots.
         g.   Lot and block numbers clearly shown.
         h.   The location, dimension and purpose of all proposed easements.
      4.   Supporting Data: The following supporting data shall be submitted in
separate statements and/or maps accompanying the preliminary plat, or if
practical, such data may be shown on the preliminary plat.
         a.   Proof of ownership of the parcel and applicant’s interest
therein. Include names of all parties with beneficial interest in trusts and
options to purchase.
         b.   Existing or proposed annexation agreements which pertain to the
parcel.
         c.   A list of all lot sizes.
         d.   Text of proposed covenants and conditions restricting or
controlling use of the subject property.
         e.   A copy of the “natural resources opinion report” from the DuPage
and/or DuPage County soil and water conservation district.
         f.   A copy of the Illinois department of natural resources’
endangered species consultation application.
         g.   A comprehensive drainage plan with analysis of the impact that
the subdivision creates on the site and on the surrounding area.
         h.   Proposed agreements, bylaws, provisions or covenant for a
property owners’ association which govern the use, maintenance and continued
protection of the subdivision and any of its planned open spaces or other
facilities as may be required that will include, at a minimum, the following
provisions:
            (1)   The membership in the owners’ association shall be mandatory
for each and every owner, and successive owner, of all dwelling units located
on the property.
            (2)   The owners’ association shall own, and shall be responsible
for the continuity, care, conservation, maintenance and operation, in a first-
rate condition, and in accordance with predetermined standards, of the common
areas, including without limitation all equipment, appurtenances, ponds,
detention facilities, and perimeter fencing located on or within the common
areas and the cost of power required for the affected equipment and
appurtenances.
            (3)   The owners’ association shall be responsible for casualty and
liability insurance, and the City of Wood Dale shall be named as an additional
insured on all policies of liability insurance obtained by the owners’
association.
            (4)   The owners of all dwelling units located on the property or
the owners’ association, as applicable, shall be responsible real estate taxes
for the common areas.
            (5)   The owners of all dwelling units located on the property
shall pay their pro rata share of all costs and expenses incurred by the
owners’ association by means of an assessment to be levied by the owners’
association that meets the requirements for becoming a lien on the property in
accordance with the statutes of the State of Illinois.
            (6)   The owners’ association shall have the right to adjust the
assessment to meet changed needs except any assessment imposed by the City of
Wood Dale. The membership vote required to authorize an adjustment shall not be
fixed at more than 51% of the members voting on the issue.
            (7)   The owners’ association shall be created and established
prior to the sale of any portion of the property.
            (8)   The City, as well as the owners of the dwelling units located
on the property shall have the right to enforce the declaration.
            (9)   The City shall have the right, but not the obligation, after
10 days written notice to the owners’ association, (i) to perform any
maintenance or repair work that, in the sole opinion of the City, the owners’
association has neglected to perform on the common areas, (ii) to assess the
membership for that work, (iii) to file a lien against the property of the
owners’ association or the property of any member failing to pay the
assessment, and (iii) and to enforce the lien in the manner provided by law for
mortgage foreclosure proceedings.
            (10)   The declaration shall run with and bind any and all portions
of the property, and shall be binding on the developer, and its successors in
interest, to all portions of the property; provided, however, that the
declaration may provide for its amendment, modification, or termination at any
time upon obtaining the prior consent of the City of Wood Dale to said
amendment, modification, or termination.
         i.   Traffic impact study if required by the city council after
receiving a recommendation from the city engineer.
         j.   The results of any tests made to ascertain subsurface rock and
soil conditions and characteristics, and the seasonal water table.
         k.   An executed copy of the preliminary plat checklist indicating all
of the items provided on the preliminary subdivision plat or in the supporting
documents submitted.
   E.   Preliminary Engineering Report: A preliminary engineering report shall
be submitted along with the preliminary subdivision plat to provide
supplemental engineering data regarding factors that will affect the final
design of the subdivision. The preliminary engineering report may be a separate
drawing showing items to be addressed specifically in the preliminary
engineering report including:
      1.   A comprehensive stormwater management plan for the land to be
subdivided, including the general alignments of the proposed storm sewer
system, points of connection of existing storm sewer systems, detention (or
retention), stage/storage relationship of the discharge structure to identify
the varying release rates due to inlet and outlet control, off site areas of
contribution, points at which off site flows will be intercepted, and all the
necessary maps, computations and field data supporting the engineer’s
stormwater management plan. The proposed stormwater management plan shall
identify an overland flow route to accommodate flows in excess of storm sewer
design level.
      2.   The location, normal and high water elevations, and outflow of
proposed stormwater management facilities.
      3.   Proposed site grading, and a statement that the subdivider or
developer will provide such temporary facilities during construction as are
necessary or required to prevent soil erosion or the siltation of watercourses,
and that adequate measures will be taken during construction for dust control.
The subdivider or developer shall also agree to clean and restore streams,
ditches or watercourses of any kind if protective measures prove inadequate.
      4.   Location and description of all existing and proposed sanitary and
storm sewers, water mains, wells, lift stations, and culverts along with an
appropriate schedule of calculations supporting the quantity of flow, sewer
sizing and grades, as well as population equivalent for the subdivision in its
developed state.
      5.   The location, size and inverts of all existing and proposed storm
sewers, bridges, culverts, drain tiles, drainageways, ditches, creeks or rivers
on the site, or within one hundred feet (100') of the site.
      6.   The location and size of existing and proposed water main to be
installed within the proposed subdivision, along with general hydrant and valve
spacing.
      7.   When a lift station is required, supporting documentation regarding
its size (gpm), pumping heads, TDH, force main size, general description of the
control system, description of the alternate power source, and the location and
accessibility of the station.
      8.   The structural design (thickness and material types) to be used for
the construction of the roadway system, projected traffic volumes, soils data
and IBR values shall be submitted to support the roadway design including
widths, crown, thickness, type of curb and gutter. This information and data
can be represented by a typical section for each street type to be constructed.
      9.   The size, dimensions and location of miscellaneous items such as
parkway trees, streetlights, sidewalks, bike paths and driveway approaches
shall be identified in the report and shown in typical section and/or typical
plan view drawings.
   F.   Copies Submitted: The applicant shall submit copies of each plat, plan,
map and supporting document required by this section in a number prescribed by
the development administrator. All drawings, plans and reports submitted to the
city shall be folded to approximately nine inches by twelve inches (9" x 12").
   G.   Engineering Approval: Before submitting the final plat for review, the
applicant shall submit engineering plans, details and specifications, and an
estimate of cost for all proposed improvements for approval of the city
engineer.
      1.   Upon the approval of preliminary plat, the applicant shall have
prepared and certified by a licensed professional engineer, construction plans,
details, calculations, specifications and quantities of materials (the
“engineering drawings”) for said improvements which shall be submitted in a
form and in a number of copies as required by the city engineer.
      2.   The city engineer shall review all engineering drawings in order to
determine whether such drawings are consistent with the approved preliminary
plat and comply with the specifications of this Article and sound engineering
practice. Such engineering drawings shall be distributed to such city staff,
consultants and other persons as may be necessary. Within forty five (45) days
after receipt of a complete set of the required plans, details or
specifications, the city engineer shall review said plans, details or
specifications and, if they are in compliance with the preliminary plat and
this section, shall forward the same to the Development Administrator with an
advisory report that they so conform and comply. In the event that the plans,
details or specifications do not so conform or comply, the city engineer shall
notify the applicant and development administrator with an advisory report
which outlines the specific manner in which they do not so conform or comply.
The advisory report shall be submitted within the said forty five (45) day
period.
      3.   The Community Development Commission shall not act upon the final
plat until the engineering drawings have been reviewed by the city engineer and
an advisory report of compliance or noncompliance has been received by the
Development Administrator.
   H.   Proposed Subdivision or Development Agreement. All engineering plan
approval applications will include a proposed subdivision or development
agreement, as the case may be, in a form approved by the Development
Administrator. The subdivision or development agreement will, without
limitation, include or reference the following minimum information:
      1.   Proposed site development schedule for installation of guaranteed
public and private improvements, referencing the final plat or development
plan, and final engineering plans, and stipulating the improvements which must
be installed prior to issuance of a building permit or certificate of occupancy
for the buildings or structures to be constructed.
      2.   Description and estimated cost of public and private improvements,
in a form and amount approved by the City Engineer, providing a detailed
accounting of the various types and amounts of improvements included in the
estimate.
      3.   Type and summary of terms of performance guarantee for the
construction of public and private improvements.
      4.   Acknowledgment that the City will take no responsibilities for any
public improvements, including, without limitation, maintenance of any sort and
repairs, unless and until all of the public improvements are properly dedicated
in accordance with this Code. The Corporate Authorities may, in their sole and
absolute discretion, take dedication of and assume responsibility for
individual public improvements as may be requested in writing by the developer,
subdivider, or resubdivider.
      5.   Method of satisfying the applicable requirements for dedicating, or
contributing monies for the future acquisition or development of, public lands
in accordance with Section
17.8015 of this Article.
      6.   A summary of the covenants, restrictions and easements necessary for
the Subdivision or Development, including the responsibilities of a property
owners’ association, if proposed.
      7.   Agreement to pay:
         a.   A fair and equitable share of all water, sanitary sewer, and
storm sewer improvements developed in the area surrounding the property that
benefit the property, as determined by the City Engineer;
         b.   All applicable park and school donations; and
         c.   Any other applicable costs, payments, permit fees or other fees
attributable to the Subdivision or Development.
      8.   An acknowledgment by the owner, subdivider or developer that the
City is not and will not be, in any way, liable for any damages or injuries
that may be sustained as the result of the City’s review and approval of any
plans for the property.
      9.   All other acknowledgments, indemnifications and hold harmless
agreements as the Corporate Authorities may require.
      10.   All other provisions deemed necessary by the Corporate Authorities
in order to fulfill the purpose and intent of this Code.
   I.   The Final Subdivision Plat: No person shall subdivide any parcel of
land until a final subdivision plat shall have been reviewed by the Community
Development Commission and reviewed and approved by the City Council as set
forth herein.
      1.   Procedures for Reviewing the Final Subdivision Plat or Development
Plan:
         a.   City Staff Review of the Final Subdivision Plat: Within five (5)
business days after receipt of an application, the Development Administrator
shall determine the completeness of the application and shall notify the
applicant in writing that the application has or has not been accepted for
review. If the application is determined to be incomplete the development
administrator shall include in his written notice the reasons why the
application is not complete and how the applicant can make the application
acceptable for submission and distribution. Only upon receipt of a complete
application shall the Development Administrator distribute copies of the
application and supporting documents to such city staff, consultants, and
outside agencies as deemed appropriate for review and comment concerning
compliance with city development goals and requirements. Within fourteen (14)
days of receipt of the complete application, the Development Administrator
shall advise the applicant, in writing, that the final plat conforms or fails
to conform to the requirements of this Article or the approved preliminary
plat. If the final plat fails to conform, the Development Administrator shall
specify with particularity the manner in which the final plat fails to satisfy
city development goals and requirements.
         b.   Community Development Commission Review: Upon notification to the
applicant that the final plat conforms to the requirements of this Article or
the approved preliminary plat, the Community Development Commission shall place
the matter on its next available agenda and serve notice upon the applicant of
the time and place of its meeting at which said matter will be discussed. The
Community Development Commission shall forward its written report to the City
Council recommending approval or disapproval, of the final plat. If the
recommendation is to disapprove, the report shall set forth the reasons for its
disapproval, specifying with particularity the manner in which the final plat
fails to satisfy city development goals and requirements.
         c.   Action By The City Council: After receiving the final
recommendation of the Community Development Commission, the City Council shall
approve or disapprove the final plat within sixty (60) days from the date of
the final recommendation by the Community Development Commission unless the
applicant and the City Council agree to extend the sixty (60) day period. If
the final plat is disapproved, the resolution shall state the reasons for the
disapproval, specifying with particularity the aspects in which the final plat
or plan fails to satisfy city development goals and requirements.
         d.   City Record: A certified copy of the resolution approving or
disapproving the final plat shall be filed in the office of the city manager
attached to said final plat. The final subdivision plat or development plan,
together with all covenants and restrictions shall be promptly recorded by the
city manager with the DuPage County recorder’s office. A copy thereof, bearing
the certificate of the recorder that the plat has been recorded in his office
and that the copy is a true and correct copy of the plat so recorded shall be
promptly thereafter filed in the city manager’s office. All recording fees
shall be paid by the applicant.
      2.   Standards for Review of a Final Subdivision Plat: The Community
Development Commission shall recommend approval and the City Council shall
approve a final subdivision plat unless it makes written findings specifying
the manner in which:
         a.   The design and layout of the subdivision does not conform to the
provisions of this Article.
         b.   The applicant has not made adequate provision to install
improvements required by the community development commission or city council
under authority of this Article.
         c.   The final subdivision plat fails to comply with an approved
preliminary plat.
         d.   The plat does not conform to the comprehensive plan, the official
map, this article, city ordinances, or established planning policies of the
city.
      3.   Contents of Final Subdivision Plat: Within one year after receiving
preliminary subdivision plat approval by the city council, the applicant shall
file with the development administrator a final plat in a quantity and form as
required by the development administrator. The final plat may include all or
only part of the approved preliminary subdivision plat. The final plat shall
include the following:
         a.   General Information: The following general information, where
applicable, shall be shown on the final plat:
            (1)   The date of preparation, north point, and a graphic scale.
The scale of the drawing shall be no less than one inch equals two hundred feet
(1" = 200') for areas over one hundred (100) acres and one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100') for areas under one hundred (100) acres. The final
plat shall be drawn with a waterproof, nonfading black ink on mylar or
equivalent drafting material no more than twenty four inches by thirty six
inches (24" x 36") in size. When more than one sheet is used for any plat, each
sheet must be numbered consecutively. A small scale drawing of the subdivision
or development shall be shown on the first sheet, identifying portions of the
subdivision according to its respective sheet number. The subdivider/developer
shall provide the plat in a digital format acceptable to the city.
            (2)   Legal description of the parcel, the parcel’s acreage and
property index numbers. The legal description should note that the parcel is in
Wood Dale, Illinois.
            (3)   The name and address of the Illinois registered surveyor who
prepared the plat with his seal affixed.
            (4)   Reference points of existing surveys identified and/or
related to the plat by distances and bearing, and reference to a field book or
map as follows:
               (A)   All stakes, monuments or other evidence found on the
ground and used to determine the boundaries of the parcel.
               (B)   Adjoining corners of all adjoining parcels.
               (C)   When the city has established the centerline of the street
adjacent or within the proposed parcel, the location of such centerline and
monument found or reset shall be shown.
               (D)   All other monuments found or established in making the
survey of the parcel or required to be installed by the provisions of this
Article or by the Illinois Plat Act, 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq., as the same has
been and may be amended from time to time.
               (E)   All property corners will be staked. A minimum of two (2)
major corners of the subdivision shall be monumented with stone or concrete
markers.
            (5)   Lot and block lines with dimensions, bearings or deflection
angles, and radii, arcs, points of curvature and tangent bearings. Sufficient
geometrical data shall be given for all lots to enable retracement and
restoration of all corner positions in the field.
            (6)   All distances shall be shown to the nearest hundredth foot
(0.01'). No ditto marks shall be used. Angles shall be expressed in degrees,
minutes and seconds.
            (7)   The width of the portion of any streets being dedicated and
the width of any existing rights of way, all shown each side of the centerline.
            (8)   All curve data shall consist of radius, degree of curve,
tangent length, and central angle.
            (9)   All easements shall be denoted by fine dotted lines, clearly
identified, and if already of record, the recorder’s references to such
easement. The width of the easement, its length and bearing, and sufficient
ties to locate it definitely with respect to the plat must be shown. If an
easement is not precisely located of record, a description of such easement
shall be included. If the easement is being dedicated by the map, it shall be
properly referenced in the owner’s certificate for identification.
            (10)   Lot and block numbers beginning with the number one, and
numbered consecutively.
            (11)   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purpose indicated thereon, and
of any area to be reserved by deed covenant for common use of all property
owners.
            (12)   The name of each street shown on the plat.
            (13)   The name of the subdivision.
            (14)   Grantees of all lands dedicated for public use, except
roads, shall be clearly noted.
            (15)   Abutting highway and road right of way lines and adjacent
subdivisions shall be shown in their proper location.
            (16)   If the subdivision borders on a lake or stream, the
distances and directions of a meander line established not less than twenty
feet (20') back from the average high water mark of the lake or stream, as
determined from flood hazard maps or other data, with said distances noted.
            (17)   All restrictions which will run with the land and covenants,
or references to covenants where declared separately.
            (18)   Accompanying Certifications. The final subdivision plat must
include an area or separate sheet for the following signatures and
certifications:
               (A)   City Officials (in a form approved by the Corporate
Authorities):
                  i.   Mayor: indicating the date of approval of the plat by
the Mayor and City Council of the City of Wood Dale.
                  ii.   City Treasurer/Collector: indicating that there are no
delinquent or current unpaid special assessments associated with the property.
                  iii.   City Engineer: indicating that the final engineering
plans and specifications meet the minimum requirements of the City of Wood
Dale.
                  iv.   Chairman of Community Development Commission:
indicating the date of Community Development Commission recommendation
regarding the final plat.
               (B)   State and County Officials (in a form prescribed by
applicable laws or regulations):
                  i.   County Clerk: indicating that there are no delinquent or
current unpaid special assessments or taxes associated with the property and
that all applicable fees have been received.
                  ii.   Illinois Department of Transportation: if the property
will have access onto a State Highway, indicating that such access is approved.
                  iii.   County Highway Department: if the property will have
access onto a County Road or Highway, indicating that such access is approved.
                  iv.   Illinois Department of Transportation, Division of
Water Resources: if the property proposes to subdivide any land bordering or
including any public waters of the State of Illinois in which the State has any
property rights or property interests, indicating the limits of the public
interest in the property, if any.
               (C)   Professional Land Surveyor An Illinois Professional Land
Surveyor must certify the following by signing and affixing his seal to the
final plat of Subdivision:
                  i.   The property has been surveyed and subdivided in
accordance with a specific legal description;
                  ii.   Certain monuments and iron pipes have been or are to be
located on the property;
                  iii.   Location of the property in relation to City corporate
boundaries, which has adopted an Official Comprehensive Plan; and
                  iv.   Location of property in relation to Special Flood
Hazard Areas, as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on the
most recent Flood Insurance Rate map.
               (D)   Property Owner(s) and Mortgagee(s) All owners of the
property and all mortgagees shall sign, as evidenced by the signature and seal
of a notary public, that they consent to the subdivision of the property.
               (E)   Design Engineer and Property Owner If the subdivision and
site development of the property will alter surface drainage patterns, the
applicant’s design engineer will sign the plat and certify that the subdivision
design adequately accounts for changes in the drainage of surface in accordance
with the Illinois Plat Act, 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq., as the same has been and
may be amended from time to time, and the requirements of the City Engineer or
any standards and specifications manuals adopted by the City.
               (F)   Other Notations: Dedications and Restrictions. The final
subdivision plat will also include statements, in a form approved by the
Corporate Authorities, concerning the dedication of land or granting of
easements, as shown on the final subdivision plat, and any restrictions related
thereto.
         b.   Supporting Data: The following supporting data, where applicable,
shall be supplied in separate statements or maps, or, if practical, may be
shown on the final plat.
            (1)   A note on the plat stating that city ordinances supersede any
private covenants and restrictions.
            (2)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having
any interest in the land, dedicating all parcels of land intended for any
public use.
            (3)   Letter of permission from the surveyor to record said plat or
plan.
         c.   Guarantees: All engineering plan approval applications will
include a proposed guarantee for the installation of required public and
private improvements. The guarantee will comply with the requirements of
Section
17.809 of this Code. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.803. Minor Subdivision Procedures.
   A.   Applications. Applications for minor subdivisions, as defined in this
Article, will include all information required for final subdivision plats, as
specified in Section
17.802.I. of this Article, except that a copy of the approved preliminary plat
will not be required. Nothing in this Code will be interpreted to relieve an
applicant for approval of a minor subdivision from the obligation to enter into
agreements with applicable school and park districts, or other government
agencies, in conformance with Section
17.8015 of this Article.
   B.   Filing of Application for Minor Subdivision Approval. The applicant
shall file with the Development Administrator the application and proposed
final minor subdivision plat in a quantity and form as required by the
Development Administrator.
   C.   Review for Completeness The Development Administrator will conduct an
initial review of the application and proposed plat for general completeness.
Within ten (10) working days of the date of filing an application for minor
subdivision approval, the applicant will be notified in writing as to whether
the application has been accepted or deficiencies or inaccuracies have been
identified in the initial review of the application materials that warrant
rejection of the application. Applications deemed incomplete or inaccurate will
not be accepted until the deficiencies identified have been properly addressed.
In the event the application is not rejected within ten (10) working days after
the date of filing the application, the application will be deemed incomplete
and rejected.
   D.   Detailed Review of Minor Subdivision. The Development Administrator
will review all proposed minor subdivision final plats for compliance with all
applicable zoning and subdivision requirements. The findings of this review
will be reported to the Community Development Commission in writing prior to
its action on the proposed final minor subdivision plat.
   E.   Notice Requirements. The Community Development Commission review of an
application for review of a minor subdivision will require public notice. The
applicant must notify, in writing, by first class mail or hand delivery, all
adjacent owners, including owners immediately across streets and rights-of-way,
no less than 15 days, nor more than 30 days in advance of the scheduled
community development commission meeting. The required notice for a minor
subdivision must contain, at a minimum, the following information:
      1.   street address, legal description or detailed location description
of the property, if any, that is the subject of the subdivision application;
      2.   brief statement describing the name of the subdivision and number of
lots proposed;
      3.   name and address of the applicant;
      4.   name and address of the legal and beneficial owner of the subject
property; and
      5.   date, time and location of the community development commission
meeting.
      6.   At the community development commission meeting, the applicant will
present an affidavit demonstrating that the above notice requirements have been
satisfied.
      7.   When mailing the notice required by this Section 17.803.E., the use
of the name and address on the most recent DuPage County real estate tax
records will be deemed a satisfaction of this requirement.
   F.   Community Development Commission Review of Minor Subdivision. Within 45
days of the Development Administrator’s acceptance of the complete minor
subdivision application, the Community Development Commission will hold a
public meeting to review the application and make a recommendation to approve,
approve with conditions or disapprove the proposed final subdivision plat for
the minor Subdivision. The Community Development Commission review period may
be extended by mutual consent of the Community Development Commission and
applicant. The failure of the Community Development Commission to act within
the time period specified in this Subsection will be deemed a recommendation
for the approval of the minor Subdivision final plat.
   G.   City Council Action on Minor Subdivision Plat. The Community
Development Commission will report to the City Council’s its recommendations
concerning applications for minor subdivision approval. Within 30 days of the
date of Community Development Commission recommendation on the application, the
City Council, at a public meeting, will by resolution approve or deny the final
minor subdivision plat, and all related agreements and approvals related
thereto, including all applicable agreements with the school and park
districts. In the event the final minor subdivision plat is denied by the city
council, the applicant will be notified in writing of the reasons for such
denial. The failure of the city council to act within the time period specified
in this Subsection 17.803.G. will be deemed a decision to approve the minor
subdivision final plat.
   H.   Recordation of Approved Plat. Following approval by the city council of
a final minor subdivision plat, the city clerk will record of cause to be
recorded the final minor subdivision plat in the DuPage County Recorder’s
Office. All recording fees shall be paid by the applicant. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-
19-2022)
Sec. 17.804. Vacation of Recorded Plats.
In cases where an application is made to vacate any recorded plat of
subdivision, or part thereof, prior to the sale of any lot in the subdivision,
the City Council may, by resolution duly adopted, order the vacation of all or
part of said subdivision. The City Council may, in its sole and absolute
discretion, refer these applications to the Community Development Commission
for a recommendation prior to action. When lots have been sold, the plat may
only be vacated if all of the owners of lots in the plat join in the
application. The applicant will be responsible for any and all costs and fees
associated with plats of vacation. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.805. Plats of Consolidation.
In cases where an application is made to consolidate existing lots of record,
the City Council may, by resolution duly adopted, order the consolidation of
the lots. The City Council may, in its sole and absolute discretion, refer
these applications to the Community Development Commission for a recommendation
prior to action. The applicant will be responsible for any and all costs and
fees associated with plats of consolidation. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.806. Tax Divisions.
In cases where an application is made to divide a property for the purpose of
creating tax divisions, the City Council may, by resolution duly adopted,
authorize such divisions. The City Council may, in its sole and absolute
discretion, refer these applications to the Community Development Commission
for a recommendation prior to action. The applicant will be responsible for any
and all costs and fees associated with tax divisions. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-
2022)
Sec. 17.807. Plats of Dedication.
In cases where an application is made to dedicate easements or rights-of-way to
the City, and the application does not involve a Subdivision, the City Council
may, by resolution duly adopted, authorize the dedication. The City Council
may, in its sole and absolute discretion, refer these applications to the
Community Development Commission for a recommendation prior to action. Unless
specifically waived by the City Council in approving the resolution, the
applicant will be responsible for any and all costs and fees associated with
plats of dedication. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.808. Development Review.
   A.   Purpose and Jurisdiction. The subdivision procedures of this Article
will not be applicable to applications involving only a development. All
standards for design, construction, installation and guarantees related thereto
for public and private improvements set forth in this Code, the City Standards
and Specifications Manual and all provisions of this Code relating to the
design, construction and installation of any such improvements will, however,
be applicable to such development applications. The owner of any such
development will submit plans, specifications and calculations demonstrating
compliance with all said public and private improvement regulations and
provisions to the City Engineer, and the City Engineer will, upon finding that
such plans demonstrate compliance, approve such plans evidencing that fact. No
Development will be commenced unless approved by the City Engineer.
No building permit will be issued for construction of any building as part of a
Development that has not been approved either as part of a subdivision or as a
site plan, as required by this Code.
   B.   Filing of Application for Development Approval. The applicant shall
file with the Development Administrator the development application materials
in a quantity and form as required by the Development Administrator, or their
designee, in accordance with Section
17.802.G. of this Article and Section
17.206 of this UDO.
   C.   Review for Completeness. The Development Administrator or their
designee, will conduct an initial review of the application and proposed
development plans for general completeness and consistency with City
regulations. Within 10 working days of the date of filing an application, the
applicant will be notified in writing as to whether the application has been
accepted or if deficiencies or inaccuracies have been identified in the initial
review of the application materials that warrant rejection of the application.
Applications that are deemed incomplete or inaccurate will not be accepted
until the deficiencies identified have been properly addressed. In the event
the application is not accepted by the Corporate Authorities, or their
designee, within ten (10) working days after the date of filing the
application, the application will be deemed incomplete and rejected.
   D.   Action on Development Application. Following acceptance of a complete
application, the development plan will be reviewed in accordance with the site
plan review procedures in Section
17.206 of this UDO.
   E.   Initial Corporate Authorities’ Comment and Referral. Within 30 days of
acceptance of a complete application, or any additional time to which the
applicant may agree, the Corporate Authorities will, at a regular meeting or
Committee of the Whole meeting, conduct a preliminary meeting with the
applicant. The purpose of this preliminary meeting will be to broadly acquaint
the Corporate Authorities with the applicant’s proposal and to provide the
applicant with the initial views or concerns that members of the Corporate
Authorities may have at an early stage in the development review process. Any
views expressed in the course of the Corporate Authorities initial review of
the development are advisory only, preliminary in nature, and the individual
views of the member expressing them. Nothing said or done in the course of the
review will create, or prejudice, any rights of the applicant or to obligate
the Corporate Authorities, or any member of it, to approve or deny the formal
application following full consideration thereof, as required by this Code.
   F.   Referral to Community Development Commission. The Corporate Authorities
will refer development applications to the Community Development Commission for
its consideration at a public meeting. Within 90-days of receipt of a
development application from the Corporate Authorities, the Community
Development Commission will recommend approval, approval with changes, or
disapproval concerning a development plan. The Community Development Commission
will review each development application in accordance with the standards for
site plan review set forth in Section
17.206 of this UDO. The failure of the Community Development Commission to act
within this 90-day period will be deemed a decision to recommend approval of a
development application.
   G.   City Council Approval. Within 30-days of receipt of a community
development commission recommendation on a development application, the City
Council, by resolution duly adopted, will approve, approve with changes, or
disapprove a development application. In the event that a development
application is disapproved, the City Council will provide written reasons for
disapproval to the applicant and the applicant will have 45-days to seek
reconsideration from the City Council without having to file a new development
application. In the event that the applicant files after 45-days, the applicant
will be required to file a new development application.
   H.   City Engineer Action on Final Engineering Plans. If the proposed
development involves engineering plan approval, the Corporate Authorities will
promptly forward these development applications to the City Engineer for
review. The City Engineer will review engineering plans in accordance with the
procedures established in Section
17.802.G. No engineering plans will be approved unless and until the
development application has been approved.
   I.   Corporate Authorities Action on Development Agreement. Following the
City Engineer approval of the engineering plans, if required, the Corporate
Authorities will promptly review the Development Agreement and proposed
performance guarantee. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.809. Establishment Of Performance Guarantee.
   A.   Performances Guarantee Required: Before commencing any construction
work for any subdivision or development the owner, developer or subdivider, as
the case may be, will select, obtain and submit a performance guarantee for the
proper installation of public and private improvements to the City Engineer for
approval and acceptance in accordance with this Section.
   B.   Improvements to be Guaranteed. The owner, developer or subdivider will
submit a guarantee for the following improvements, as deemed necessary by the
City Engineer:
      1.   Permanent subdivision monuments and lot corner markers.
      2.   Transportation system improvements, including:
         a.   Public and private streets, and all related frontage and
intersection improvements;
         b.   Street lights;
         c.   Parkway tree plantings;
         d.   Street signs, signals and apparatus;
         e.   Public and private sidewalks, trails and bike paths;
         f.   Other traffic-related improvements contemplated as part of the
Subdivision or Development.
      3.   Environmental protection and site preparation measures, including:
         a.   Grading and related site preparation work, including tree
protection, and the value of trees required to be protected or preserved under
this Code;
         b.   Erosion and sediment controls during the various phases of site
development (including site and lot grading, construction entrances, diversion
dikes, silt fences, sediment traps, seeding and site stabilization);
         c.   Protection and preservation measures for wetlands and other
natural areas; and
         d.   Other special environmental protection measures which are a
component of the final engineering plans.
      4.   Public utility systems, including:
         a.   Public and private storm sewer system (pipes, inlets, manholes,
swales, detention ponds, and all related structures and apparatus);
         b.   Public water system (pipes, valves, fire hydrants and related
system improvements); and
         c.   Sanitary sewer system (pipes, manholes, lift stations and related
system improvements).
      5.   Common facilities which are contemplated as part of the subdivision
or development specified in the final engineering plans.
      6.   Other public and private improvements specified in the approved
engineering plans or otherwise required by other City standards and
specifications for public improvements.
   C.   Amount of Performance Guarantee. The applicant must submit to the City
Engineer estimates for the cost of construction for public and private
improvements contemplated in the approved engineering plan. The City Engineer
will review such estimates and, if acceptable, approve the amount of the
performance guarantee. The amount of the performance guarantee will be based
upon the amounts specified in the master fee schedule for the estimated
construction cost of all public improvements and for the performance of all
other obligations which may be secured to be approved by the City Engineer.
   D.   Terms of Performance Guarantee. Performance guarantees shall be in a
form approved by the Corporate Authorities and shall specify the terms and
conditions noted below.
      1.   The guarantee shall have an expiration date not less than three
months beyond the date specified in the approved subdivision or development
agreement.
      2.   Not less than 30 days prior to the expiration of such guarantee, the
Corporate Authorities shall be given written notice by means of first class
mail, indicating that such guarantee is to expire. No guarantee shall expire
absent such notice.
      3.   Failure of the owner, subdivider or developer to install such
guaranteed improvements prior to the scheduled completion date, as specified in
the approved site development schedule, shall be considered a default by the
owner, subdivider or developer and the issuing institution.
      4.   The guarantee shall only be released or reduced by the issuing
institution upon written certification by the City Engineer or designee
stating:
         a.   that said guarantee may be released or reduced in accordance with
this Section, and
         b.   the amount of such discharge or reduction.
      5.   If at any time the City determines that the institution issuing the
guarantee is without adequate capital, assets, earnings and liquidity or is
unable to meet any federal or state requirement for reserves, is insolvent, is
in danger of becoming any of the foregoing, or is otherwise in danger of being
unable to honor such guarantee at any time during its term, or if the City
otherwise reasonably deems itself to be insecure, then the City shall have the
right to demand that the owner, subdivider or developer provide a replacement
guarantee from an institution satisfactory to the City. Such replacement
guarantee shall be deposited with the City not later than 10 days following
such demand.
      6.   If the owner, subdivider or developer fails or refuses to complete
the construction of the public and private improvements covered by the
guarantee or fails or refuses to correct any defect or deficiency in such
improvements upon request by the City, or in any other manner fails or refuses
to meet fully any of its obligations under the guarantee or the applicable
subdivision or development agreement, then the City may, in its sole and
absolute discretion, retain all or any part of the guarantee. The City
thereafter shall have the right to exercise any other action it deems
reasonable and appropriate to mitigate the effects of such failure or refusal,
and to reimburse itself from the proceeds of the guarantee for all of its costs
and expenses, including legal fees and administrative expenses. If the funds
remaining in the guarantee are insufficient to repay fully the City for all
such costs and expenses, and to maintain a cash reserve equal to the required
guarantee during the entire time of such costs and expenses, and to maintain a
cash reserve equal to the required guarantee during the entire time such
guarantee should have been maintained, then the owner, subdivider or developer
shall, upon demand of the City therefor, immediately deposit with the City such
additional funds as the City determines necessary.
   E.   Types of Performance Guarantees: Performance guarantees for the
installation of public and private improvements shall be in a form approved by
the Corporate Authorities. The following types of performance guarantee are
acceptable, provided they are consistent with the regulations below.
      1.   Cash Escrow. A cash deposit may be used as a guarantee, provided the
total amount of the guarantee required is placed with the Corporate Authorities
and administered in accordance with the provisions of the subdivision or
development agreement.
      2.   Irrevocable Letter of Credit and Cash. An irrevocable letter of
credit may be used as a guarantee, provided such letter of credit is issued by
a financial institution approved by the Corporate Authorities, the
administration of such letter of credit conforms to the terms of the
subdivision or development agreement, and the letter of credit is accompanied
by a cash deposit in an amount not less than ten percent (10%) of the total
guarantee amount. The cash deposit shall, at all times until released, as
provided herein, be maintained at not less than ten percent (10%) of the
initial total guarantee amount. The financial institution issuing the
irrevocable letter of credit shall be:
         a.   Insured by the Federal Depository Insurance Corporation or
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation;
         b.   Chartered in the State of Illinois or have a registered agent in
Illinois; and
         c.   Have adequate capital, assets, earnings and liquidity to ensure
the financial soundness of the issuing institution, as determined by the
Corporate Authorities.
      3.   Surety Bond. A surety bond may be used as a guarantee, provided the
surety bond is issued by a surety company having an AM Best rating of at least
A- and approved by the Corporate Authorities, and the administration of the
surety bond conforms to the terms of the subdivision or development agreement.
The Corporate Authorities with the recommendation of the City Engineer may
require that the surety bond be accompanied by a cash deposit in an amount not
less than twenty percent (20%) of the total guarantee amount.
   F.   Compliance with Engineering Plans: All public and private improvements
to be installed pursuant to an approved engineering plan will be supervised and
inspected during the course of construction by the City Engineer or other
qualified and authorized employees of the City in order to ensure compliance
with the approved engineering plans and any standards and specifications
manuals the City may adopt.
   G.   Reductions: The owner, subdivider, or developer may make a written
request to the City Engineer to partially reduce the amount of the approved
performance guarantee. The City Engineer is authorized to approve a partial
reduction in the amount of the performance guarantee, provided:
      1.   There are no more than three (3) partial reductions approved in the
amount of the performance guarantee during the life of the subdivision or
development;
      2.   Partial reductions will only be authorized following the acceptable
completion of the following improvements:
         a.   All underground storm drainage, sanitary sewer and water supply
systems have been properly installed and all erosion and sediment controls are
operational;
         b.   All curb, gutter, sidewalk and base course paving for public and
private streets have been properly constructed; and
         c.   All lots have been graded and all storm detention facilities are
operational.
         d.   The inspection reports for the subdivision or development
evidence acceptable completion of the above;
         e.   The amount of a partial reduction cannot exceed seventy-five
percent (75%) of the estimated cost to construct such improvements;
         f.   In no event will the amount of the performance guarantee be
reduced to a level that, in the sole and absolute opinion of the City Engineer,
would not allow the City to complete the installation of public and private
improvements associated with the subdivision or development; and
         g.   In no event will any portion of the cash deposit be reduced prior
to final release of the performance guarantee.
   H.   Extensions or Replacements: The owner, subdivider, or developer may
make a formal request to the City Engineer to extend the expiration date of an
approved performance guarantee or to replace the type of performance guarantee
held by the City. The City Engineer may require the submission of reasonable
fees for these requests.
      1.   In the event of a formal request to extend the expiration date of a
performance guarantee and the related agreement, the applicant will:
         a.   Indicate the reasons and conditions which have inhibited him from
completing the required improvements;
         b.   Present a summary of the progress made in installing the required
improvements and a proposed schedule and cost estimate for the completion of
all remaining improvements; and
         c.   Present a revised performance guarantee, in compliance with the
standards of this Section 17.809, and a related agreement.
         d.   Any extension requires the approval, by resolution, of the City
Council. Extensions may be granted for a period not to exceed one (1) year.
      2.   Replacement of Performance Guarantees. Requests for replacement
guarantees will be reviewed in accordance with the standards and procedures for
the original guarantee.
   I.   Acceptance of Public Improvements: Public improvements will not be
considered accepted by the City unless and until each of the following reviews
and actions have been successfully performed:
      1.   Filing with the City Engineer or Public Works Director a formal
written request to accept the improvements by the owner, subdivider, or
developer;
      2.   Certification by the City Engineer or Public Works Director that
all, or specific individual, public improvements required to be constructed or
installed have been fully, or individually, completed in accordance with all
applicable plans and specifications, and that the inspected construction or
installation thereof has been approved;
      3.   Submission by the applicant of all appropriate as-built drawings of
improvements, as required by the City Engineer and any standards and
specifications manual the City may adopt;
      4.   All appropriate City code enforcement complaints have been resolved
to the satisfaction of the Corporate Authorities;
      5.   All necessary maintenance guarantees have been received and approved
by the City Engineer; and
      6.   The adoption by the City Council of a resolution, officially
accepting the improvements and releasing the applicable performance guarantee
on behalf of the City.
   J.   Release of Performance Guarantee. Following the City’s acceptance of
all public improvements and the City Engineer or Public Works Director’s
certification that all public and private improvements included in the
guarantee have been 100 percent completed to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer or Public Works Director, and all other requirements of this Article
have been completed to the satisfaction of the Corporate Authorities, the
Corporate Authorities will release or direct the City Engineer to release the
guarantee.
   K.   Maintenance Agreement and Guarantee.
      1.   Prior to the acceptance of required public improvements by the City,
the subdivider or developer must execute a maintenance agreement for the repair
or replacement of defective materials and workmanship for a period of time
extending one (1) year from the effective date of City acceptance of such
improvements. A maintenance guarantee will be submitted with the maintenance
agreement. The amount of the maintenance guarantee shall not be less than ten
percent (10%) of the total amount of the initial performance guarantee for the
Subdivision or Development, as established pursuant to Section 17.809.C. The
City Engineer or Public Works Director is authorized to execute maintenance
agreements on behalf of the City following City Council acceptance of the
improvements.
      2.   If, after one (1) year, no defects in workmanship or materials have
developed, the maintenance guarantee will be released by the City Engineer or
Public Works Director. In the event any defects are identified by the City
Engineer or Public Works Director during the term of the maintenance guarantee,
the balance of the guarantee will be released only after: (a) the City has been
fully reimbursed for amounts expended in correcting defective improvements, or
(b) the subdivider or developer has successfully repaired all defects to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer or Public Works Director. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-
19-2022)
Sec. 17.8010. Modifications Of The Requirements Of This Article.
   A.   Upon application to the Development Administrator and payment of
applicable fees, modifications of the provisions of this Article may be
granted, unless otherwise expressly prohibited by this Article, by City Council
after first being reviewed by the Community Development Commission.
   B.   Statement of Justification. In applying for modifications of the
provisions of this Article, the applicant must demonstrate in writing that:
      1.   The requested modifications are in keeping with the overall purpose
and intent of this Article and Code;
      2.   The granting of the modifications will not be to the detriment of
adjacent properties;
      3.   The granting of the modifications will not be contrary to the public
health, safety and general welfare; and
      4.   The situation of the applicant is not of a general or recurring
nature for similarly situated properties within the City or its jurisdiction.
   C.   Limitations on Modifications. No modification granted pursuant to this
Section will relieve the applicant, subdivider or developer from complying with
any other applicable local, state or federal regulations.
   D.   Conditions May Be Imposed. In authorizing a modification, the Community
Development Commission may recommend and the City Council may impose such
conditions regarding the location, character and other features of the proposed
Subdivision or Development as it may, in its sole and absolute discretion, deem
necessary in the public interest, and may require the posting of a performance
guarantee to insure compliance with the conditions imposed.
   E.   Procedure for Review of Modification Requests. Applications for
modifications of the provisions of this Article will be reviewed concurrently
with the related Subdivision or Development application, except when such
applications require:
      1.   An initial review of the request by the City Council prior to
forwarding the request to the Community Development Commission; and
      2.   A duly noticed public hearing conducted by the Community Development
Commission. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.8011. Amendments To Subdivision And Development Article.
This Article may be amended from time to time by the City Council, upon
adoption of an Ordinance duly adopted; provided, however, no public hearing
will be required prior to the adoption of such Ordinance. Amendments to the
Code may be proposed by parties other than the City Council or Community
Development Commission; however, all such applications will be subject to the
fees, as may be established, by the City of Wood Dale. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-
2022)
Sec. 17.8012. Compliance And Enforcement.
   A.   Subdivisions.
      1.   No owner or agent of the owner of any parcel of land located in a
proposed Subdivision will transfer or sell such parcel before a plat of said
Subdivision has been approved by the City Council and filed with the DuPage
County Recorder of Deeds.
      2.   The division of any lot or any parcel of lands by the use of metes
and bounds description, for the purpose of sale, transfer or lease will be
subject to all of the requirements and regulations contained in this Article.
      3.   No Building Permit will be issued for the construction of any
building located on a lot, plot, parcel or division which is subdivided or sold
in violation of the regulations of this Article.
      4.   No plat of Subdivision will be approved that does not comply with
all applicable provisions of this Article.
   B.   Development.
      1.   The Subdivision procedures of this Article will not be applicable to
applications involving only a Development, as defined in this Article. All
standards for design, construction, installation and guarantees related thereto
for public and private improvements set forth in this Article, the City
Standards and Specifications Manual and all provisions of the this Code
relating to the design, construction and installation of any such improvements
will, however, be applicable to such Development applications. The owner of any
such Development will submit plans, specifications and calculations
demonstrating compliance with all said public and private improvement
regulations and provisions to the City Engineer, and the City Engineer will,
upon finding that such plans demonstrate compliance, approve such plans
evidencing that fact. No Development will be commenced unless approved by the
City Engineer.
      2.   No building permit will be issued for construction of any building
as part of a Development that has not been approved either as part of a
Subdivision or as a Site Plan, as required by Section
17.206 of this UDO. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.8013. Penalties.
In addition to any penalties involving the Subdivision or Development of land
established in applicable state and federal regulations, the City may seek the
prosecution of any person who violates any of the provisions of this Article,
or agreements related thereto. Each day such violation exists will constitute a
separate offense and will be subject to all applicable City fines and
penalties. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.8014. Fees.
Reasonable fees, sufficient to cover costs incurred by the City in reviewing
Subdivision and Development applications, will be paid at the time of such
application will be paid in accordance with this Section 17.8014 and the Master
Fee Schedule.
   A.   Non-Refundable Fee and Escrow Deposit. Non-refundable fees and escrow
deposits are established from time to time. The fees will be submitted to the
Corporate Authorities at the time of application. The escrow deposit for such
purposes will apply to proposed Subdivisions, re-subdivisions, or Developments
of property within the jurisdictional control of the City.
   B.   Recoverable Expenses. From the date of filing an application for
Subdivision or Development, as authorized in this Article, the Corporate
Authorities will maintain accurate records of all expenses incurred by the City
in reviewing and acting upon applications. Expenses incurred by the City will
be reimbursed by the applicant. Reimbursable expenses may include, but are not
limited to:
      1.   Legal notice in newspaper;
      2.   Community Development Commission secretarial services;
      3.   City staff time for application review;
      4.   City Attorney fees;
      5.   Document preparation and review;
      6.   Professional and technical consultant services;
      7.   Copy reproduction; and
      8.   Document recording.
   C.   Deposit Settlement: Prior to the final approval of a Subdivision or
Development application, the Corporate Authorities will detail all applicable
expenses involved in reviewing the application and require the payment of any
additional monies prior to final action on the application. In the event monies
remain, after accounting for applicable recoverable expenses, the Corporate
Authorities will refund the balance of the escrow deposit to the applicant. The
refund check will be accompanied by a statement of expenses incurred. No
interest will be paid on the escrow deposit. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.8015. Parks And School Land Contributions.
   A.   Parks And School Sites: The Community Development Commission may
recommend and the City Council may require each subdivider/developer to
dedicate land for park and recreational purposes and land for school sites, to
serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the parcel, to make a
cash contribution in lieu of actual land dedication, or to provide a
combination of both at the option of the City. Such dedication is necessary to
ensure proper provision of park and school sites for persons who are expected
to reside within the subdivision or development, which sites would otherwise
have to be acquired at the expense of the general public, but whose utility
would generally be limited to residents of the parcel.
   B.   Public Land Dedication and Contribution Standards:
      1.   General Requirement.
         a.   Condition of Subdivision or Final Subdivision Plat Approval. As a
condition of approval of a Subdivision, or of a Final Subdivision Plat,
located, entirely or in part, within a residential district, or is, or is
intended to be, used, entirely or in part, for residential purposes, the
Applicant will be required to dedicate land for park and recreational purposes
and for school sites to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents
of the proposed Subdivision, or to agree to the payment of a cash contribution
in lieu of actual land dedication, or to provide a combination of land and cash
contributions, at the option of the City, in accordance with this Subsection
17.701.B.1.
         b.   Condition of Occupancy Permit. No occupancy permit will be issued
by the City until (a) the dedications described in Subsections 17.8015.B.2. and
17.8015.B.3. of this Article have been made, or (b) the applicable school
district and park district deliver to the Corporate Authorities a written
acknowledgment that each has received the cash contribution described in
Subsection 17.8015.C. of this Article.
         c.   Applicability to All Subdivisions. As provided in Section
17.801.G. of this Article, the term Subdivision as used throughout this Section
17.8015, will have the meaning as set forth in Section
17.103 of this UDO and that includes, without limitation, planned developments
and developments, as these terms are defined in this UDO.
         d.   Applicability to Subdivisions with Existing Residential Dwelling
Units. The calculation of the required dedication of land, or cash contribution
in lieu thereof, will be adjusted with respect to any new subdivision of land
on which there exists, at the time of submission to the City of an application
for Subdivision approval, one or more residential dwelling units. Such
adjustment will allow for the ultimate population density for the new
Subdivision to be reduced, proportionately, based on such existing dwelling
units, irrespective of whether the existing dwelling units will remain in
existence after approval of the new Subdivision, or will be replaced by new
dwelling units.
         e.   Density Formula. Population Table. The Table of Estimated
Ultimate Population Per Dwelling Unit, set forth in
Table 8-1 below, will be used as provided in this Subsection 17.8015 to
calculate the required dedication of land for park and recreational or school
site purposes or for cash contributions in lieu thereof, unless a written
objection thereto is filed by the Applicant with the Corporate Authorities
pursuant to Section 17.8015.B.1.f.(2).
TABLE 8-1
Table of Estimated Ultimate Population per Dwelling Unit
Children per Dwelling Unit
                              Junior     TOTAL      High
Type of Pre-School Elementary High       Grades     School    Adults  Total
Unit               Grades K-5 Grades 6-8 K-8        Grades 9-
                                                    12
        0-4 Years  5-10 Years 11-13      5-13 Years 14-17     (18-up) Per Unit
                              Years                 Years
TABLE 8-1
Table of Estimated Ultimate Population per Dwelling Unit
Children per Dwelling Unit
                                Junior    TOTAL      High
Type of    Pre-      Elementary High      Grades     School    Adults  Total
Unit       School    Grades K-5 Grades 6- K-8        Grades 9-
                                8                    12
           0-4 Years 5-10 Years 11-13     5-13 Years 14-17     (18-up) Per Unit
                                Years                Years
Single-Family Detached Dwellings
2 Bedroom  0.113     0.136      0.048     0.184      0.020     1.700   2.017
3 Bedroom  0.292     0.369      0.173     0.542      0.184     1.881   2.899
4 Bedroom  0.418     0.530      0.298     0.828      0.360     2.158   3.764
5 Bedroom  0.283     0.345      0.248     0.593      0.300     2.594   3.770
or more
Single-Family Attached Dwellings (i.e. townhouse dwellings and two-family
dwellings)
1 Bedroom  0.000     0.000      0.000     0.000      0.000     1.193   1.193
2 Bedroom  0.064     0.088      0.048     0.136      0.038     1.752   1.990
3 Bedroom  0.212     0.234      0.058     0.292      0.059     1.829   2.392
4 Bedroom  0.323     0.322      0.154     0.476      0.173     2.173   3.145
or more
Multiple Family Dwellings and Community Residences
Efficiency 0.000     0.000      0.000     0.000      0.000     1.294   1.294
1 Bedroom  0.000     0.002      0.001     0.003      0.001     1.754   1.758
2 Bedroom  0.047     0.086      0.042     0.128      0.046     1.693   1.914
3 Bedroom  0.052     0.234      0.123     0.357      0.118     2.526   3.053
or more
NOTE: The determination of the number of bedrooms contained in a building shall
be made by the Corporate Authorities. Rooms designated by an Applicant as den,
library, study, sewing room, exercise room, or the like may be designated by
the Corporate Authorities as bedrooms if they are suitable for such
accommodations.
 
         f.   Presumed Density Formula.
            (1)   In applying
Table 8.1 to a proposed Subdivision for which the types of units and number of
bedrooms cannot reasonably be determined from the data and materials on file
with the City, the following types of units and bedroom data will be used,
unless a written objection thereto is filed by the Applicant with the Corporate
Authorities pursuant to this Article.
 
Single Family Detached:             Four bedroom unit per lot.
                                    Equal mix of two and three bedroom units at
Single Family Attached:             maximum unit density permitted by
                                    applicable zoning.
Multiple Family Dwellings in the R- Equal mix of two and three bedroom units at
6 District:                         maximum unit density permitted by
                                    applicable zoning.
Multiple Family Dwellings in the R- Equal mix of one and two bedroom units at
7 District or the R-8 District:     maximum unit density permitted by
                                    applicable zoning.
 
            (2)   Objection to Density Formulae. If the Applicant files a
written objection with the Corporate Authorities to the use of
Table 8-1 or the presumed density formula set forth in Subsection
17.8015.B.1.f.(1), the Applicant will submit, at the Applicants sole cost and
expense, a thorough and comprehensive demographic study showing the estimated
population to be generated by the proposed Subdivision. The Corporate
Authorities will make the final determination as to the density formula and
estimated population that will apply to the proposed Subdivision. This
determination will be based on the demographic study submitted by the Applicant
and all other facts and circumstances relevant to the issue as determined and
required by the Corporate Authorities. Nothing in this Section 17.8015.B.1.f.
(2) will be construed as limiting or preventing the Corporate Authorities from
utilizing
Table 8-1 or the presumed density formula set forth in Subsection
17.8015.B.1.f.(1) for any proposed Subdivision.
      2.   Criteria for Park Land Dedication.
         a.   Calculation of Land Required to be Dedicated. The amount of land
required to be dedicated for park and recreational purposes for a proposed
Subdivision will be a direct function of the ultimate population density of
that Subdivision. The requirement will be based on a standard of five (5) acres
of land per 1,000 ultimate population, computed in accordance with
Table 8-1 of this Section 17.8015.B.2.a.
         b.   Location of Land to be Dedicated. The location of the land to be
dedicated for park and recreational purposes for the proposed Subdivision
pursuant to this Section 17.8015.B.2.b. will be determined by the City Council.
The determination will be based on such factors as the City Council deems
appropriate, including, without limitation, the availability of land, the
suitability of any particular land for park and recreational purposes as
opposed to use for other development, the location of the land relative to
population concentrations, and the proximity of the land to other park or
recreational lands.
         c.   Minimum Size of Dedicated Land. The minimum size of any land to
be dedicated for park and recreational purposes will be 87,120 square feet, and
no dimension will be less than 100 feet; provided, however, that the City
Council may approve dedications of a smaller size or dimension when required by
the specific plans of the proposed Subdivision and when the usefulness of the
smaller area for park and recreational purposes is clearly demonstrated.
         d.   On-Site Storage Prohibited. No materials, including, without
limitation, top soil or other soil materials, can be stored on any land that
has been dedicated, or that has been designated for dedication, to the City for
park or recreational purposes pursuant to this Subsection 17.8015.B.2.
         e.   Detention and Retention Areas Not Qualified; Secondary Use. Storm
water detention or retention area will not qualify as land suitable for
dedication for park and recreational purposes, unless the suitability of such
land for park and recreational purposes as a secondary use is clearly
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the City Council.
      3.   Criteria for School Site Land Dedication.
         a.   Calculation of Land Required to be Dedicated. The amount of land
required to be dedicated for school sites for a proposed Subdivision will be a
direct function of the ultimate number of students to be generated by the
Subdivision. The school site land dedication requirement will be determined in
accordance with the following equation:
Number of children from proposed Subdivision to be served in each school
classification
(computed in accordance with Table ___)
divided by:
Maximum number of students to be served in each such school classification
(as stated in Subparagraph 17.8015.B.3.b. of this Article)
multiplied by:
Minimum number of acres for each school site for each school classification
(as stated in Subparagraph 17.8015.B.3.b of this Article)
The product of such calculation shall be the minimum acreage of land necessary
for school sites to serve the children in the proposed Subdivision.
         b.   School Classifications; Land Required. School classifications and
the required minimum size of new school sites within the City shall be
determined in accordance with the following criteria:
 
School Classification by Maximum Number of Students Minimum Number of Acres Per
Grades                   For Each Such              Site of Such Classification
                         Classification
Elementary schools (K-8)
Grades kindergarten      900 Students               14 Acres
through 8th
High schools, (9-12)     2000 Students              55 Acres
Grades 9th through 12
 
         c.   Location of Land to be Dedicated. The location of each school
site will be determined by the Corporate Authorities. The City’s official
Comprehensive Plan and the standards adopted by the affected school district
will be used as guidelines in locating school sites.
         d.   On-Site Storage Prohibited. No materials, including, without
limitation, top soil or other soil materials, can be stored on any land that
has been dedicated, or that has been designated for dedication, to the City for
school site purposes pursuant to this Section 17.8015.B.3.
         e.   Detention and Retention Areas Not Qualified. No storm water
detention or retention area will qualify as land suitable for dedication for a
school site, unless the suitability of such land for such school site as a
secondary use is clearly demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Corporate
Authorities.
   C.   Criteria for Payment In Lieu of Land Dedication.
      1.   General Qualification. In the event that a proposed Subdivision is
small and the resulting required land dedication is too small, in the
determination of the Corporate Authorities, to be practical, or when the
Corporate Authorities find that the available land is inappropriate for park
and recreational purposes or for a school site, then the City has the authority
to require the Applicant to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the otherwise
required land dedications, in accordance with the standards of this Subsection
17.8015.C.
      2.   Definition of Fair Market Value. The cash contributions in lieu of
land will be based on the fair market value of the acres of land in the
proposed Subdivision, as determined by the Corporate Authorities based on the
value of improved land in and surrounding the City. The fair market value
figure will be established from time to time and will be used in making any
calculation required by this Subsection 17.8015.C., unless the Applicant or
other affected party files an objection pursuant to Subsection 17.8015.C.3. The
Corporate Authorities may periodically, but no less frequently than annually,
survey surrounding communities, conduct discussions with the applicable
Township Assessors office, affected school districts, and other interested
parties, and report findings of such surveys and communications to the City
Council with respect to the continued adequacy and reasonableness of the City’s
determination of fair market value.
      3.   Objection to Fair Market Value Determination. If the Applicant or
any other affected person files a written objection with the Corporate
Authorities to the fair market value as established pursuant to Subsection
17.8015.C.2., the applicant or other affected person must submit, at their sole
cost and expense, a written appraisal professionally prepared by a Member of
the Appraisal Institute of America (M.A.I.). The appraisal must show the fair
market value of improved land in the area of the proposed Subdivision. Upon
receipt of an objection to the fair market value for school property, the
Corporate Authorities will deliver or cause to be delivered the appraisal to
the applicable school district. The applicable school district will have the
right, but not the obligation, within 30 days after receipt of the objection to
make a recommendation regarding the disposition of the objection. The City
Council must make the final determination, by resolution duly adopted, as to
the fair market value of improved land based on the appraisal and other
information submitted by the applicant or other affected person, the
recommendations, if any, received from the school district, and all other facts
and circumstances relevant to the issue as determined and required by the City
Council. Nothing in this Section 17.8015.C.3. will be construed as limiting or
preventing the City Council from utilizing the fair market value as established
in Subsection 17.8015.C.2. of this Article for any proposed Subdivision. In the
event that the objection is for the fair market value for park land, the
Corporate Authorities will examine the applicant’s objection, appraisal and
other information submitted by the applicant or other affected person. The City
Council, by resolution duly adopted, will make a decision within 30 days after
receipt of an objection.
      4.   Disposition of Cash Contributions.
         a.   Cash contributions in lieu of park land dedications will be paid
directly to the applicable park district or districts, as the case may be,
solely for use in the acquisition of land for acquisition of park and
recreational land to serve the immediate or future needs of the residents of
the proposed Subdivision or for the improvement of other existing park and
recreational sites.
         b.   Cash contributions in lieu of school site land dedications shall
be paid directly to the applicable school district or districts, as the case
may be, solely for use in the acquisition of land for a school site to serve
the immediate or future needs of students from the proposed Subdivision or for
the improvement to any existing school site already serving such needs.
         c.   All cash contributions made pursuant to this Subsection
17.8015.C. will be held in trust by the school or park district to which the
cash contributions are paid and will be kept separate from all other funds and
will be accounted for in the appropriate manner.
         d.   Refund of Cash Contributions. If any portion of a cash
contribution in lieu of a park land dedication, or a cash contribution in lieu
of a school site land dedication, as the case may be, is not expended for the
purposes set forth herein within seven years after the date of receipt of such
contribution, then that cash contribution will be refunded to the applicant who
made the contribution, or its successor or assign.
   D.   Criteria for Combination Land Dedication and Cash Payment. A
combination of land dedication and cash contribution in lieu of land dedication
may be required when appropriate as determined by the Corporate Authorities,
including, without limitation, in the following two circumstances:
      1.   Inadequate Land. The proposed Subdivision has some but not enough
adequate land to meet the dedication requirements of this Section 17.8015.B.2.
and Section 17.8015.B.3. That portion of the land within the proposed
Subdivision that is adequate for park land or a school site will be dedicated
as required under Section 17.8015.B.2. and Section 17.8015.B.3., and a cash
contribution will be required for any additional land that otherwise would have
been dedicated pursuant to this Section 17.8015.C.
      2.   Previous Acquisition. If a major part of the local park or
recreational site or school site has already been acquired, and only a small
parcel of land is needed from the proposed Subdivision to complete the site. A
local park, recreation or school parcel will be acquired by dedication, and a
cash contribution will be required for any additional land that otherwise would
have been dedicated pursuant to this Section 17.8015.
   E.   Combining with Adjoining Subdivisions. For proposed Subdivisions of
five acres or less, the otherwise applicable park and recreational land
dedication or school site land dedication may be combined, where practical as
determined by the Corporate Authorities, with dedications for the same purposes
from adjoining subdivisions or developments to produce usable park or
recreational areas or school sites.
   F.   Topography and Grading. The slope, topography, and geology of a site to
be dedicated pursuant to this Subsection 17.8015, as well as its surroundings,
must be suitable for the intended purpose of the site. Grading on dedicated
land must not differ greatly from surrounding land. No removal of existing
topsoil will be permitted.
   G.   Improved Sites. All sites must be dedicated in a condition ready for
full service of electrical, telecommunications, gas, water, sewer and streets
(including curb and gutter and enclosed drainage), as applicable to the
location of the site.
   H.   Dedication as Condition of Approval of Final Subdivision Plat. Approval
of any Final Subdivision Plat shall be conditioned on the dedication of land,
or cash donations in lieu thereof, as required by this Subsection. When a
Subdivision is to be developed over a period of years, dedication of required
land may be made after completion of a portion of the Subdivision provided that
an escrow fund satisfactory to the City has been established to guarantee the
conveyance of land after completion of such portion of the Subdivision.
   I.   Title to Dedicated Park Land and School Sites.
      1.   General Requirement. All sites to be dedicated pursuant to this
Subsection 17.8015 must be conveyed to the City either by warranty or trustees’
deed, or another form of conveyance as the City may require. The Applicant will
be responsible for payment of all real estate taxes to the date of conveyance.
In the discretion of the City, a commitment for title insurance issued by a
company authorized to do business in Illinois may be required as evidence of
clear title.
      2.   Park Land. Conveyance of park land dedications will occur only after
or simultaneously with the passage of an ordinance or resolution by the park
district that indicates the land will be accepted by the district for park
purposes. Immediately thereafter, the City will convey the site to the
district.
      3.   School Sites. Conveyance of school sites will occur only after or
simultaneously with the passage of an ordinance or resolution by the school
district that indicates the site will be accepted by the district for school
purposes. Immediately thereafter, the City will convey the site to the
district.
   J.   Remedies.
      1.   Intergovernmental Agreement. All school and park districts serving
the City that are eligible to receive school or park sites or cash in lieu of
such sites will be required, as a condition of receiving the dedications or
donations, to enter into a binding, written intergovernmental agreement with
the City, acceptable in form and content to the City Attorney, providing for
the indemnification and holding harmless of the City from any loss, claims and
causes of actions of every kind that may be incurred by the City as a result,
either directly or indirectly, of the enactment of this \Section 17.8015, or
the administration or enforcement thereof, including any loss, claims, or
causes of action incurred as a result of a lawsuit brought or threatened by the
school or park district. The intergovernmental agreement will provide that if
the City is sued by any applicant, subdivider, or developer as a result,
directly or indirectly, of the enactment of this Section 17.8015, the City may,
at its option, undertake its own defense, and the City’s costs and expenses
related thereto, including attorneys’ fees, will be immediately reimbursed by
the affected school or park district.
      2.   Improper Use of Funds. In the event that a school or park district
improperly uses funds or fails to use funds and does not return the funds as
specified in this Section 17.8015, the City may sue the affected school
district and will be entitled to recover as a part of the judgment therein, or
any settlement thereof, all costs and expenses, including attorneys’ fees,
incurred by the City.
      3.   Implied Conditions. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the
provisions of this Section 17.8015 will be an implied condition of every
intergovernmental agreement entered into pursuant to this Subsection 17.8015.
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-22-030, 11-17-2022)
ARTICLE IX
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
17.901. Purpose
17.902. Certificate Of Compliance
17.903. Enforcement
17.904. Violations
17.905. Performance Standards
Sec. 17.901. Purpose.
The purpose of this Article is to establish regulations and standards for the
installation, establishment and operation of nonresidential uses in the City
based upon consideration of the objectionable characteristics of such uses and
the zoning districts in which they are permitted. This Article also is intended
to prescribe the procedures and methods of measurement of the installation,
establishment and operation characteristics of nonresidential uses subject to
such standards. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.902. Certificate Of Compliance.
   A.   No use permitted in any manufacturing or commercial district shall be
issued a zoning certificate until a certified statement has been signed by a
qualified professional engineer and a responsible agent for the proposed use
stating that all provisions of the performance standards set forth in this
Article will be met.
   B.   No use permitted in any industrial or commercial district shall be
issued a certificate of compliance until all provisions of this Article have
been complied with and tests on operating equipment made under normal operating
conditions have been performed indicating full compliance with all performance
standards. Such statement shall be certified and signed by a qualified
professional engineer and a responsible agent for the operating use. (Ord. O-
22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.903. Enforcement.
The Development Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this Article
pursuant to the authority and enforcement and penalty provisions in Article 11
of this Article. In addition, the Development Administrator may require install
monitoring equipment to ensure continuous compliance with the prescribed
standards of this Article. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.904. Violations.
Violators found to be in noncompliance with this Article will be liable for
inspection fees and costs as well as any penalties imposed pursuant to the
Article and, without limitation, by any court of law. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-
2022)
Sec. 17.905. Performance Standards.
   A.   Toxic Substances: Regulations pertaining to all toxic substances shall
be as follows:
      1.   Definitions:
 
                         A highly toxic substance is hereby defined as a
HIGHLY TOXIC SUBSTANCES: chemical or substance that is listed as an Extremely
                         Hazardous Substance by the Environmental Protection
                         Agency (EPA), as may be amended from time to time.
                         Any gas, liquid, solid, semisolid substance or mixture
                         of substances, which if discharged into the
                         environment could, alone or in combination with other
                         substances is likely to be present in the environment,
                         cause or threaten to cause bodily injury, illness or
TOXIC SUBSTANCE:         death to members of the general public through
                         ingestion, inhalation, or absorption through any
                         bodily surface. In addition, substances which are
                         corrosive, irritants, strong sensitizers, or
                         radioactive substances (other than highly toxic
                         radioactive substances) shall be considered toxic
                         substances for the purposes of this regulation.
 
      2.   Regulation:
         a.   Highly Toxic Substances: The storage, use or handling of highly
toxic material as defined in Section 17.905.A.1.a. shall be as required by
applicable regulations of the Illinois Pollution Control board, \and all other
applicable City regulations and ordinances, as adopted or amended from time to
time.
         b.   Toxic Material: The use, storage, handling or transport of toxic
substances as defined in Section 17.905.A.1.b. shall comply with applicable
regulations of the Illinois Pollution Control Board, and all other applicable
City regulations and ordinances, as may be adopted or amended from time to
time.
         c.   Permit Required: Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
use, storage, handling or transportation of Highly Toxic substances shall be
required to obtain permits from the City and the Wood Dale Fire Protection
District. Permit applicants shall provide all information as determined
necessary by the Fire District to ascertain compliance with the above
referenced and adopted rules and regulations. The Fire District shall make an
inspection of the applicant’s premises to determine such compliance prior to
the issuance of the permit.
   B.   Fire and Explosion Hazards: Materials that present potential fire and
explosive hazards shall be transported, stored and used only in conformance
with all applicable federal, state and City laws.
   C.   Air Pollution: Any visual emissions, particulate matter emissions,
odor, airborne toxic material and other air pollution shall meet the current
standards of the Illinois Pollution Control Board; Title 35, Subtitle B, “Air
Pollution”, Article I, Pollution Control Board, as may be amended from time to
time.
   D.   Odor: The release of materials intrinsically odorous or capable of
being odorous, either by bacterial decomposition or chemical reaction, which
renders it perceptible from beyond the lot shall be prohibited.
   E.   Radiation Hazards: The handling of radioactive materials, the discharge
of such materials into air and water, and the disposal of radioactive wastes
shall be in conformance with applicable regulations of the atomic energy
commission, and the applicable regulations of any instrumentality of the state
of Illinois.
   F.   Vibration: The following requirements shall apply to all nonresidential
uses:
      1.   Any process or equipment that produces intense earth-shaking
vibrations - such as are created by drop forges, hydraulic surges or other
processes - shall be set back at least five hundred (500) feet from the
property boundaries on all sides. However, in no case shall such vibrations be
allowed to create a Public Nuisance or hazard beyond the property boundaries.
      2.   Exceptions: The provisions of this Section 17.905.F. shall not apply
to sound emitted from equipment being used for permitted construction between
the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) P.M., of each
day.
   G.   Glare: All lighting shall meet the following requirements.
      1.   All lighting sources, on properties other than those zoned for
single-family residential use, shall be arranged to reflect light away from
adjoining properties in a manner that does not produce glare clearly visible
beyond a property line so as to cause nuisance or impairment of vision. Glare
is best reduced when the light source is not visible from adjacent properties.
Therefore, the use of lenses, deflectors, shields, louvers, or prismatic
control devices shall be used to eliminate nuisance and hazardous lighting to
facilitate compliance with this requirement.
      2.   In all residential zoning districts, no light source shall cause
illumination in excess of one tenth (0.1) foot-candle in residential districts
at any property lot line.
   H.   Electromagnetic Interference: There shall be no electromagnetic
interference that adversely affects the operation of any equipment other than
that belonging to the creator of such interference, or than does not conform to
the regulations of the federal communications commission.
   I.   Water Pollution:
      1.   All land uses shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations
of the State of Illinois Pollution Control Board regarding water pollution,
Title 35, Subtitle C, entitled “Water Pollution”, as amended from time to time.
      2.   Industrial Waste: All industrial waste disposal must be conducted in
accordance with all City, State and Federal regulations; and approved by the
City’s Pretreatment Coordinator prior to issuance of a zoning certificate.
Industrial wastewater shall be disposed into a sanitary sewer unless an
alternative disposal is approved by the Pretreatment Coordinator who may
require pretreatment. The engineer may require pretreatment. A sampling manhole
and industrial wastewater discharge permit may be required.
   J.   Noise: The following requirements shall apply to all nonresidential
uses:
      1.   Sound pressure levels shall be in keeping with current State of
Illinois standards as prescribed by the Illinois Pollution Control Board
(Subtitle H: Noise), as may be amended from time to time.
      2.   Exceptions: The following activity shall be exempted from the rules
and regulations of this Section 17.905.J.
         a.   Sound emitted from emergency warning or safety devices.
         b.   Sound emitted from lawn care maintenance equipment used during
daylight hours.
         c.   Sound emitted from vehicles, snowblowers and similar equipment
used for snow removal and hauling operations.
         d.   Sound emitted from equipment being used for construction between
the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o’clock (7:00) P.M., of each
day, or for such additional hours as may be authorized by the Development
Administrator.
         e.   Sound emitted from trucks and vehicles entering or leaving
industrial zoned property, except as may be caused by idling engines, off the
road vehicles, mixers on ready mix concrete trucks, and trailer mounted
refrigeration units.
   K.   Storage and Use of Materials: The storage, use or manufacture of
materials referenced in this Section 17.905.K. shall be regulated as follows:
      1.   The storage, use or manufacture of materials or products conducted
within completely enclosed buildings shall be in keeping with the codes adopted
by Wood Dale and any other applicable Ordinances.
      2.   The storage or utilization of flammable liquids and gases shall be
conducted only in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and City laws.
      3.   All hazardous materials including flammable liquid and gas storage
tanks stored outside shall be a minimum of thirty feet (30') from all lot lines
and in keeping with the codes adopted by Wood Dale and any other applicable
Ordinances.
      4.   All equipment storage areas shall be graded for proper drainage and
provided with an all-weather surfacing maintained at all times in such a manner
as to prevent the release of dust and to be free of dust, trash and debris.
   L.   Sewage Waste: Sewers and sewage discharge shall meet the appropriate
City, State and Federal requirements. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
ARTICLE X
DESIGN GUIDELINES
SECTION:
17.1001. Purpose
17.1002. Who Are The Design Guidelines For
17.1003. How To Use The Design Guidelines
17.1004. Design District: Commercial Districts
17.1005. Design District: Industrial Districts
17.1006. Glossary
Sec. 17.1001. Purpose.
These Design Guidelines help define Wood Dale's vision for development and
design character by encouraging high-quality site planning, landscaping, and
design. The guidelines also serve as guiding principles for defining the
physical form of development beyond basic use and building bulk regulations.
These standards do not mandate or endorse one particular style of design, but
rather communicate the character and quality through which buildings can
contribute to Wood Dale's quality of place.
New developments and major remodeling projects in the City's commercial
districts (TCB, C-1, C-2, and C-2a) and industrial districts (I-1 and TCC and
TIO) will be reviewed according to these design guidelines as part of this
Chapter's site plan review process with final approval by the City Council.
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-2024)
Sec. 17.1002. Who Are The Design Guidelines For?
Future developments, including new commercial and mixed-use subdivisions, will
be evaluated for consistency with these Design Guidelines. Individual single-
family homes will not be subject to the guidelines unless they are part of a
subdivision that was developed under these Design Guidelines. The review will
occur as part of the administrative review process for building permits, even
when no other zoning approvals are required. If a PUD, Special Use or other
zoning approval is being considered, the Design Guidelines will be applied as
administrative review, and incorporated into the zoning process. Therefore,
these Design Guidelines are a useful tool for:
   A.   The Public: Members of the community who have an interest in its built
environment and development decisions within the City.
   B.   Local Elected and Appointed Officials and City Staff: Officials whose
decisions influence the character and quality of the City’s built and natural
environments.
   C.   Business and Property Owners: Those who invest in Wood Dale and support
its economic development and resilience.
   D.   Design + Development Professionals: Persons who help bring life to the
City’s vision by designing developments, redevelopments and property
improvements. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.1003. How To Use The Design Guidelines:
   A.   Design Districts.
      1.   Different Design Guidelines apply in the commercial and industrial
districts, given their different contexts which define the design elements most
appropriate there. The Design Guidelines for each district will help property
owners and designers consider a site’s location, relationship to the
surrounding areas, and unique characteristics as they contemplate new
developments. Design Guidelines are applied in the following Districts:
      2.   Commercial Districts: Town Center Business District (TCB);
Neighborhood Commercial District (C-1); Corridor Commercial District (C-2);
Southeast Irving Park Corridor Commercial District (C-2a).
      3.   Industrial Districts: Industrial/Business Park Districts (I-1);
Thorndale Corridor Overlay District (TCC); Thorndale Interchange Overlay
District (TIO).
   B.   Design Elements: Three Design Elements are applied to each of the
Design Districts. These points relate to major components of any development
and define the place being created. The objectives to be achieved in applying
these elements are described here. A Glossary of terms related to design and
design elements can be found at the end of this document.
      1.   Design Element: Site Planning: Site planning addresses the
arrangement and design of buildings, accessory structures, parking and drive
areas, bicycle and pedestrian mobility, and supporting facilities. Site
Planning Design Guidelines help to establish a functional and pleasing
environment through a mixture of urban design elements to ensure buildings,
paths, roadways, and public spaces are beneficial for all users.
         a.   Objectives:
            (1)   Combine and coordinate various site elements.
            (2)   Design blocks and multiple building developments logically
and efficiently.
            (3)   Install screening between uses or activities that may be
incompatible as needed to mitigate impacts between differing uses (for example
residential next to commercial uses).
            (4)   Create interactive areas by including outdoor furniture,
plazas, pocket parks, wayfinding signage, art, informational kiosks,
landscaping, etc. when possible.
            (5)   Use lighting to assure safety and as an aesthetic design
element.
      2.   Design Element: Landscaping: Plant material enhances a property by
creating visual interest, highlighting architecture and site features, offering
shade, promoting desirable environmental benefits, screening unattractive
functions from public view and providing buffers between properties.
         a.   Objectives:
            (1)   Use landscape features to create visual interest, break up
appearance of blank walls, and enliven unexciting building views.
            (2)   Apply vegetation to soften views of and within parking lots
and other vehicle areas.
            (3)   Complement landscaped areas with streetscape amenities
(awnings, bike racks, furniture, art, lighting, signs).
            (4)   Employ an environmentally sustainable landscape palette in
support of stormwater management practices, as well as more efficient ongoing
maintenance.
            (5)   Complement and be additive to landscape purpose,
applicability, and requirements defined in the City Code.
      3.   Design Element: Building Design + Form: Architectural elements
define development through its scale, context, texture, materials, and color.
These characteristics articulate the quality and spirit of the space by
advancing its overall appearance, relationship to the street and sidewalk, and
respect for surrounding structures and activities.
         a.   Objectives:
            (1)   Develop attractive new buildings that present a diversity of
architectural styles and respect existing character within the Design District.
            (2)   Enhance property by highlighting primary site and building
features.
            (3)   Create a cohesive and pleasant character by mitigating
potentially adverse impacts between different uses and establishing logical
transitions between buildings.
            (4)   Improve developments by considering and prioritizing
pedestrian use and mitigating potential impact of vehicles and impervious
surfaces. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-24-032, 10-3-2024)
Sec. 17.1004. Design District: Commercial Districts.
Commercial corridors in Wood Dale provide a range of retail, dining, and
service business that serve community residents and surrounding communities.
The Design Guidelines below define a development standard that enhances the
day-to-day function and experience for employees and visitors along the
corridors.
   A.   District Design Objectives:
      1.   Inviting commercial corridors and business areas where retail,
service and office developments are attractive, distinctive and easy to access
for pedestrians, cyclists, and motorists.
      2.   Enhanced commercial vitality, economic growth, and support for
businesses, through thoughtfully developed physical surroundings.
      3.   Safe and efficient auto access, as well as bicycle and pedestrian
movement within and between developments.
   B.   Design Guidelines: Site Planning:
      1.   Size and orient buildings to create a positive visitor experience in
terms of safety, views, and access within and beyond the site, and walkability.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3040.png]
 
      2.   Provide seating, waste receptacles, resting spaces, walking areas,
bike paths and parking, and other amenities that create a comfortable and
familiar environment.
      3.   Design walls, fences and accessory structures to be compatible with
the design, character, and style of the overall development.
      4.   Minimize visibility and impact of loading docks and storage areas by
locating them away from the primary building access and out of view from
roadways and main drives.
      5.   Install lighting to minimize glare by using recessed or cut off
fixtures.
      6.   Design signage in accordance with sign code and to provide
information clearly and legibly to pedestrians and motorists without dominating
the site, architecture or character of the building, block, or corridor.
      7.   Design parking lots with a logical layout configuration, easily
identifiable traffic circulation, and clearly identifiable paths for
pedestrians to the front door of stores.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3042.png]
 
   C.   Design Guidelines: Landscaping.
      1.   Install a variety of weather resistant and environmentally
appropriate landscaping to create visual interest, highlight pedestrian paths,
and accent buildings.
      2.   Use landscaping to highlight a building entry, walkway or other
feature.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3044.png]
 
      3.   Apply foundation landscaping to enhance building appearance.
      4.   Install perimeter landscaping to screen parking lots from view of
passing traffic.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3083.png]
 
      5.   Install landscape areas of refuge for pedestrians in parking lots;
these areas can also be used to minimize water runoff and provide additional
outdoor amenity areas.
      6.   Include at least one shade tree and living weather resistant and
environmentally appropriate ground cover in landscape islands - mulch or stone
are discouraged but may be acceptable in areas where ground cover planting
survival is unlikely.
      7.   Install landscaping strips between parking rows, where feasible.
      8.   Break up view of large building surfaces facing the public right-of-
way or main drive aisles using landscaping features.   Use perimeter
landscaping to screen paring lots     
      9.   Select landscape treatments to provide seasonal plantings and color
variety throughout at least 3 seasons.
      10.   Disperse trees and plantings throughout the parking lot to maximize
shade and visual relief.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3048.png]
 
      11.   Use native vegetation for perimeter landscaping, foundation
landscaping, and parking islands to reduce maintenance costs and contribute to
environmental sustainability.
      12.   Minimize large open parking areas by incorporating enhanced
landscaping or architectural design elements (like garden walls) to parking lot
interiors and perimeters when parking is provided between buildings and
adjacent roadways.
   D.   Design Guidelines: Building Design.
      1.   Minimize unattractive views of large balance walls with changes in
color or building materials, placement of windows, placement of building
detailed.
      2.   Building elevations facing a street shall have windows on each floor
elevation.
      3.   The main entrance shall be street-facing.
      4.   Buildings on corner lots shall extend architectural features and
details on each street frontage.
      5.   Use moldings, awnings, roof lines, cornices, windowsills, lintels or
vertical-horizontal expression lines to create more visual interest in
buildings.
      6.   Use durable primary materials such as stone, steel, masonry, and
textured concrete on visible facades. Durable primary materials shall
constitute at least fifty percent (50%) of elevations excluding openings for
windows and doors and associated trim.
      7.   Use different building materials that do not clash in color or
finish; a logical and attractive family (palate) of colors should be applied.
Material that provides highlight colors may be appropriate. Apply setbacks of
building facades that are varied and add dimension and depth to site.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3050.png]
 
      8.   Renovate facades on older centers with durable materials that
present a modern character and attractive appearance.
      9.   Design masonry buildings with brick sizes in keeping with the
building scale. Larger utility bricks or concrete masonry units (CMUs) are not
appropriate on smaller square footage buildings, but can be appropriate on “big
box” or other larger structures if applied with banding and texturing that
breaks up the appearance of large facades.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3052.png]
 
      10.   Design rear elevations of buildings visible from public rights of
way or residential areas to reflect the design character of the building’s
front elevation.
      11.   Design awnings and signs to be consistent in character, size, and
profile along a building façade.
      12.   Screen views of ground/roof mounted mechanical equipment from
adjoining properties and the public right-of-way with landscaping or building
elements.
      13.   Service entries are prohibited on street facades.
      14.   Use lighting to highlight architectural elements and increase
overall pedestrian and vehicular safety. Lighting should not produce glare or
areas of excessive brightness out of character with the overall site nor
project light into the sky.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3054.png]
 
      15.   Avoid using plain (flat grey and untextured) CMU blocks which are
not acceptable under these Design Guidelines. CMU blocks with a color or split
face finish, or both, are acceptable. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022; amd. Ord. O-
22-030, 11-17-2022)
Sec. 17.1005. Design District: Industrial Districts.
Wood Dale’s industrial and business park uses support a variety of
manufacturing, warehousing, distribution, logistics, and office uses. While
this Design District includes a range of buildings with varying functions,
these guidelines define an attractive and cohesive business environment that
unifies and enhances the area.
   A.   Design District Objectives:
      1.   Safe, functional, and cohesive business park environment that
promotes economic expansion in Wood Dale.
      2.   Attractive building and landscaping design to create inviting and
aesthetically pleasing industrial parks.
      3.   Site design to minimize unattractive often monotonous common with
larger scale buildings.
   B.   Design Guidelines: Site Planning:
      1.   Orient buildings to minimize views of loading, mechanical and
storage areas from rights of way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3056.png]
 
      2.   Design building access, visibility, connections, and circulation to
create safe and efficient travel through and beyond the site for trucks,
passenger vehicles, bicyclists and pedestrians.
      3.   Encourage shared parking facilities.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3058.png]
 
      4.   Incorporate signage to label visitor and vehicular movement between
buildings and parking areas of multiple building developments.
   C.   Design Guidelines: Landscaping.
      1.   Incorporate landscaping to mitigate views of large blank walls
common with large industrial buildings.
      2.   Locate landscaping to highlight main entrances to industrial
buildings.
      3.   Apply foundation landscaping to enhance building appearance.
      4.   Install landscaping to soften views of parking lots from rights of
way and to highlight pedestrian paths to and from main and employee entrances
of buildings.
      5.   Utilize native vegetation for perimeter landscaping, site
foundation, and parking islands to reduce maintenance costs and contribute to
environmental sustainability.
   D.   Design Guidelines: Building Design.
      1.   Avoid large expanses of undifferentiated blank surfaces and focus on
façade diversity, pattern, texture, color and detail that contributes to visual
interest:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3060.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3081.png]
 
         a.   Use architectural elements or creative color variation for
vertical and horizontal relief over large areas as an effective way to break up
a building façade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3064.png]
 
         b.   Use functional elements - such as windows and vents - to break up
building façades.
         c.   Use color banding to break up long stretches of building facades.
      2.   Light pathways, entryways, exits, service areas, and other frequent
visitor access points to increase safety and use cut off light fixtures to
minimize glare.
      3.   Building elevations facing a street shall have windows on each floor
elevation.
      4.   The main entrance shall be street-facing.
      5.   Enhance building entry areas to be easily identifiable.
      6.   Buildings on corner lots shall extend architectural features and
details on each street frontage.
      7.   Service entries are prohibited on street facades.
      8.   Minimize visibility of loading docks from adjacent roadways. Where
docks must face roadways, landscaping or other intermittent screening can be
used to limit such views. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.1006. Glossary.
ACCESSORY      Structure supportive of and secondary to the primary building or activity (as
STRUCTURE:     defined by the City of Wood Dale Zoning Ordinance).
ARCHITECTURAL  Various aspects of a structure that are functional and/or aesthetic in nature
ELEMENTS:      (such as windows, doors, and roof lines moldings, awnings, roof lines,
               cornices, windowsills, fenestrations or lintels.)
BUSINESS PARK: An industrial / office area developed to reflect a consistent design
               character for common areas and rights-of-way.
CHARACTER:     The unique sense of place created by the various elements of a particular
               business district or neighborhood.
               Light fixtures designed to limit the direction that created illumination
CUT OFF        shines and to reduce glare.
FIXTURES:      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
               IMAGES/0-0-0-3066.png]
ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITY Practices related to design, construction, and maintenance of development
(as relates to that seeks to avoid harmful impacts to the environment in order to preserve
these design   natural resources and quality of the natural environment into the future.
guidelines):
FAÇADE:       The visible portion of a building.
               Plantings located along the base of a building that are designed to enhance
FOUNDATION     building appearance.
LANDSCAPING:   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
               IMAGES/0-0-0-3068.png]
               A visual characteristic resulting from too much brightness from a light
GLARE (LIGHT   source or not controlling (focusing) the light source; considered a form of
POLLUTION):    light pollution.
               [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
               IMAGES/0-0-0-3070.png]
GROUND COVER:  Living plants designed to grow low to the ground, intended to create an
               attractive appearance and protect against soil erosion.
               Elements of landscape and site design that are solid, not plants, and long
HARDSCAPE:     term in nature; includes items such as walkways, retaining walls, pavers,
               patios and decks.
               Small medians set into parking and drive areas used to provide aesthetic
LANDSCAPE      enhancement, additional green areas, pedestrian safely, and to define driving
ISLANDS:       and pedestrian paths.
               [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
               IMAGES/0-0-0-3072.png]
LANDSCAPING    A continuous landscaped area located between two facing rows of parking.
STRIP:         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
               IMAGES/0-0-0-3074.png]
NATIVE         Plant species found naturally in a local habitat that are typically well-
VEGETATION:    suited to the environment of the area, making them resilient and in some
               cases useful for stormwater management.
               A landscaped or hardscaped area often used for active or passive recreation,
OPEN SPACE:    providing visual relief and areas of respite within a city, neighborhood, or
               development.
ORNAMENTAL     Trees with a highly aesthetic appearance based on their flowers, aromas,
TREES:         shape, color or combination of such features.
               A form of screening that combines lawn, shrubs and trees located around the
PERIMETER      edge of development or part of a development (such as a parking lot) designed
LANDSCAPING:   to provide aesthetic benefit and lessen the view of less attractive elements
               such as parked cars or utilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT-  That part of the built environment commonly owned and maintained by the
OF-WAY:        community (roads, parkways, sidewalks, and alleys).
               The perception created by a building’s mass and height in relation to its
SCALE:         surroundings. In regard to an area intended for pedestrian use, the notion of
               “pedestrian scale” relates to the pedestrian’s perceived comfort and
               interactions with a building (or buildings).
               A barrier (either landscaping or structural ) designed to limit visibility of
SCREEN (or     areas, activities or structures that may diminish the appearance or character
SCREENING):    of an area.
               [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
               IMAGES/0-0-0-3076.png]
               The distance between a property line and principal building, accessory
SETBACKS:      structure, or defined activity. Setbacks may be defined by zoning regulation
               or applied for specific purposes.
WAYFINDING:    The series of signs used to help visitors know their location in and find
               other areas of a development, business district or city.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d653534f153405badf4dcdbb692f4f4e8534331c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3078.png]
 
(Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Photo Credits: All photos by Teska Associates unless otherwise noted.
ARTICLE XI
ZONING ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
17.1101. General Enforcement Authority And Duty
17.1102. Civil And Administrative Enforcement
17.1103. Penalties
17.1104. Private Remedies Preserved
Sec. 17.1101. General Enforcement Authority And Duty.
Upon finding the existence of any violation of this Code, the City Council, or
its designee, will have the authority and duty to take or direct all actions
necessary or appropriate to punish and abate such violation. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-
19-2022)
Sec. 17.1102. Civil and Administrative Enforcement.
   A.   Stop and Cease-and-Desist Orders: Upon finding the existence of any
violation of this Code, the Development Administrator will notify, in writing,
the person responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the
violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it; specifically, the
Development Administrator will order the discontinuance of any illegal use of
land or structures; the removal of illegal structures, additions or
alterations; and the discontinuance of illegal work being done.
   B.   Legal Actions: In the enforcement of this Code, the City Council will
exercise all the powers authorized by the statutes of the State of Illinois and
the codes and ordinances of this City to ensure compliance with, or to prevent
or abate any violation of, the provisions of this Code, and in particular,
will, where necessary or appropriate, institute or cause to be instituted by
the City Attorney in the name of the City of Wood Dale any and all actions,
legal or equitable, including appeals, that may be required for the enforcement
of this Code.
   C.   Abatement; Liens: Where authorized by state statute, the City Council
may order any work necessary to abate any violation of this Code and shall
assess the cost of such work to the property owner. Upon the failure of the
owner to pay such cost, the Development Administrator will file a lien for such
costs, and for all costs of collection, against the property in question.
   D.   Revocation of Permits: The violation of any provision of this Code, or
of any permit or approval granted pursuant to it, or of any condition imposed
pursuant to it will be grounds for the revocation of any rezoning, permit,
variation, or approval granted pursuant to this Code and affecting the property
involved in the violation. The Development Administrator may recommend and the
City Council may order such revocation; provided, however, where the original
rezoning permit, variation, or approval was granted following a public hearing
required pursuant to this Code, the revocation will be preceded by a similar
hearing.
   E.   Fines: In the enforcement of this Code, the Development Administrator
will, where necessary and appropriate, order the issuance and enforcement of
citations to recover fines and penalties for the violation of this Code as
authorized by state law and this Code. (Ord. O-22-017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.1103. Penalties.
Any person who shall violate, disobey, omit, neglect, or refuse to comply with,
or who shall resist enforcement of, any provision of this Code will be subject
to a fine in the amounts as specified in the Master Fee Schedule. Each day
violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. O-22-
017, 5-19-2022)
Sec. 17.1104. Private Remedies Preserved.
Nothing in this Article 10 will be interpreted to prevent any person entitled
to relief in law or equity by reason of a violation of the provisions of this
Code from bringing an appropriate action to secure such relief. (Ord. O-22-017,
5-19-2022)
CHAPTER 18
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
ARTICLE I
DIVISION OF GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
18.101. Establishment Of Administrative Adjudication System
18.102. Definitions
18.103. Composition Of Administrative Adjudication System
18.104. Hearing Procedures Not Exclusive
18.105. Code Enforcement Procedure
18.106. Eviction Rights Of the Occupants
18.107. Subpoenas
18.108. Representation At Hearings
18.109. Adjudicatory Hearings
18.110. Findings, Decision And Order
18.111. Order And Sanction Attached To Property
18.112. Review Under Administrative Review Law
18.113. Penalties, Court Fees, And Judgment Collection Procedure
18.114. Federal Government Contracts; Maintenance Of Property; Penalties
Sec. 18.101. Establishment of Administrative Adjudication System.
   The City of Wood Dale, pursuant to article 1, division 2.1 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-2.1-1 et seq., hereby establishes a system of
administrative adjudication, subject to the limitations of this chapter, that
provides due process of law, including notice and an opportunity for a hearing
for all affected persons. In the event a conflict between this chapter and
article 1, division 2.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code exists, then the
Illinois Municipal Code shall prevail. The stated purpose of this chapter is to
provide a method for fairly and efficiently enforcing the Municipal Code of the
City of Wood Dale of 1993, as amended from time to time, through citations or
notices of violation issued by any city department for any city code
violations, including, but not limited to, the building code; unified
development code; all offenses under chapter 4, commercial occupancy and
activity regulations; chapter 6, public health and safety; and chapter 15,
traffic code, as may be allowed by law through an administrative adjudication
of the city’s municipal ordinances; including and establishing a schedule of
fines and penalties and authority for collection of unpaid fines and penalties.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.102. Definitions.
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the following
definitions shall have the meanings ascribed:
ADJUDICATORY HEARINGS: Any administrative hearing called by the code hearing
unit pursuant to this chapter.
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC REGULATIONS: A traffic regulation as set forth in the
Illinois vehicle code, as amended from time to time, section 11-208.6,
governing an automated traffic law enforcement system or 11-1201.1, governing
an automated railroad crossing enforcement system.
CITY: The city of Wood Dale, DuPage County, Illinois.
CODE OR CITY CODE: The Wood Dale municipal code, as amended from time to time.
CODE ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATOR: A person responsible for managing the
administrative process for handling city code violations, ensuring compliance
with the city code, and facilitating adjudicatory hearings for violations that
are subject to administrative adjudication.
GENERAL REGULATIONS: Any regulation set forth in this code and city ordinances
other than automated traffic regulations, real property use regulations,
standing, parking and compliance regulations or liquor control.
HEARING OFFICER: An individual, other than a city law enforcement officer, or
city code enforcement inspector, appointed by the city manager to preside over
and conduct hearings in the City’s system of administrative adjudication.
ORDINANCE OR CITY ORDINANCE: Any regulation approved and adopted by the Wood
Dale city council that is in effect but that has not been codified in this
code.
NON-EMERGENCY SITUATION: Any situation that does not reasonably constitute a
threat to the public interest, safety, or welfare.
STANDING, PARKING AND COMPLIANCE REGULATIONS: Any standing, parking and
compliance regulation set forth in chapter 15 of this code, or city ordinances
that is in conformity with the definition of “compliance” set forth in the
Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3(a). (Ord. O-
10-021, 11-4-2010)
VIOLATION NOTICE: A formal written allegation or charge of a city code or
ordinance violation, also known as a “notice of violation,” or “complaint”,
filed with the code hearing unit by an individual authorized by this code to
issue a city code or ordinance violation notice.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.103. Composition of Administrative Adjudication System.
The administrative adjudication system of the city shall be comprised of a code
hearing unit.
   A.   Code hearing unit.
      1.   There is hereby created a code hearing unit within the city that is
responsible for conducting adjudicatory hearings, exercising the powers
conferred in this chapter and in the manner set out in this chapter.
      2.   The code hearing unit shall have jurisdiction to adjudicate all
alleged violations of the city code, except for: (i) proceedings not within the
statutory authority of the city; (ii) any offense under the Illinois Vehicle
Code or a similar offense that is a traffic regulation governing the movement
of vehicles; and (iii) any reportable offense under Section 6-204 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code.
      3.   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, the administrative
adjudication of impounded vehicles shall be governed by the specific procedures
established in chapter 15, article XVIII of the City Code.
      4.   The code hearing unit shall consist of one or more hearing officers,
as that term is defined herein, and any one or more of the following: a code
enforcement administrator, as that term is defined herein, hearing room
personnel, and such other agents, employees or officials assigned to assist
either the hearing officer of the code enforcement administrator. All members
of the code hearing unit shall be appointed by the city manager and shall have
the powers, authority, and limitations as set forth in this chapter.
      6.   This chapter shall not affect the validity of systems of
administrative adjudication authorized by state law and adopted by the city.
For a violation of any city ordinance, fines and penalties shall be as
established from time to time by the corporate authorities.
   B.   Hearing officer powers and duties.
      1.   The hearing officer shall have all the powers granted to hearing
officers under state law set forth in section 1-2.1-4 of the Illinois Municipal
Code, as amended, the provisions of which are incorporated herein by this
reference, including the powers to:
      2.   Preside at an adjudicatory hearing called to determine whether or
not a code or ordinance violation exists; and
      3.   Hear testimony and accept evidence from all interested parties
relevant to the existence of a code or ordinance violation; and
      4.   Issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the adjudicatory hearing or produce relevant documents, upon the
request of the parties or their representatives; and
      5.   Preserve and authenticate the transcript and record of the
adjudicatory hearing and all exhibits and evidence introduced at the
adjudicatory hearing; and
      6.   Issue and sign a written finding, decision, and order that states
whether a code or ordinance violation exists; specifies the penalty or fines
imposed; and/or specifies the action with which the person found liable must
comply, along with a timeline for compliance, if appropriate; and
      7.   Impose penalties consistent with applicable provisions of the city
code and assess costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation,
except, however, that in no event shall the hearing officer have authority to
(i) impose a penalty of incarceration, or (ii) impose a fine in excess of
$50,000 for each violation of the city code or each count stated in the
violation notice, or at the option of the city, such other amount not to exceed
the maximum amount established by the Mandatory Arbitration System as
prescribed by the Rules of the Illinois Supreme Court from time to time for the
judicial circuit in which the city is located. Any such fine imposed under this
chapter shall be exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs imposed to secure
compliance with the city’s code or ordinances and shall not be applicable to
cases to enforce the collection of any tax imposed and collected by the city.
   C.   Hearing officer qualifications. All hearing officers shall be appointed
by the city manager and prior to conducting proceedings under this chapter, a
hearing officer shall successfully complete a formal training program that
includes the following:
      1.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the hearing that they will
conduct;
      2.   Orientation to each subject area of this code or city ordinance
violations that they will administer;
      3.   Observations of administrative hearings; and
      4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including rules on evidence and
issuing final orders.
      In addition, every hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the state of Illinois for at least three (3) years, and be in
good standing with the attorney registration and disciplinary commission of the
supreme court of Illinois. A hearing officer is not required to be a resident
of the city.
   D.   The code enforcement administrator, who shall be the community
development director, or their designee, is hereby authorized, empowered, and
directed to:
      1.   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the administrative adjudication system.
      2.   Adopt, distribute, and process all notices or documents required
under this Chapter, or as may reasonably be required to carry out the purpose
of this Chapter.
      3.   Collect payments made as a result of fines and/or penalties assessed
after a final determination and transmit such payments to the city’s finance
department.
      4.   Refer to the city’s attorney the collection of unpaid fines and
penalties assessed after a final determination, and enforcement of any
unremediated violations of the city code.
      5.   Certify copies of findings, decisions, and orders adjudicated
pursuant to this Chapter, and any factual reports verifying the findings,
decisions, and orders that are issued in accordance with this Chapter or the
laws of the State of Illinois.
      6 .   Manage the operations of the administrative adjudication system,
including, but not limited to:
         a.   Inputting information for violation notices and notices to
appear;
         b.   Establishing notices of violations and hearing dates;
         c.   Issuing and serving notices of hearing dates, notices of default,
such other notices as may be necessary to implement the administrative
adjudication system, and final notices;
         d.   Keeping an accurate record of appearances and failures to appear
at the administrative hearings;
         e.   Keeping a record of please entered, judgments entered, penalties
imposed, if any, and penalties paid or completed;
         f.   Collecting unpaid fines and penalties, and pursuing post-judgment
remedies available by law;
         g.   Issuing payment receipts;
         h.   Pursuing such other duties as directed by the community
development director, or their designee; and
         i.   Performing such other duties as are necessitated to achieve
functionality and efficiency in the operation of the administrative
adjudication system.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.104. Hearing Procedures Not Exclusive.
   The city is not precluded from using other methods to enforce the provisions
of this code and city ordinances such as instituting an action in a court of
law.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.105. Code Enforcement Procedure.
   A.   Initiation of Adjudicatory Proceedings: Adjudicatory proceedings in the
city’s administrative adjudication system are initiated when any individual
authorized to issue a city code or ordinance violation notice files such a
notice with the code hearing unit. Authorized individuals include, but are not
limited to, full-time police officers, community service officers, code
enforcement officers, code inspectors, and persons retained by the city who
identify a code violation.
   B.   Violation Notice Requirements:
      1.   A violation of the city code or a city ordinance shall be noted on a
multiple copy violation notice or a computer generated violation notice that
shall including the following:
         a.   The name and address of the party alleged to have violated the
city code or ordinance, if known;
         b.   The name and address of the person to whom the violation notice
is given if that person is not the alleged violator/respondent;
         c.   The date of the alleged violation;
         d.   For violations of Chapters 14 or 15 of the city code, the time of
the alleged violation;
         e.   The section(s) of the city code or ordinance alleged to have been
violated;
         f.   A brief description of the type and nature of the alleged city
code or ordinance violation;
         g.   In the case of a violation pertaining to real property, the
address of the property where the violation is observed;
         h.   Vehicle make and state registration number, if applicable;
         i.   The names of any witnesses to the violation;
         j.   The names, signature (which can include a conformed, electronic,
or authorized stamp signature), city department, position, and identification
number, if applicable, of the person issuing the violation notice;
         k.   The date, time, and location of the adjudication hearing for the
alleged city code or ordinance violation; and
         l.   The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is
to be held and the penalties for failure to appear.
   C.   Verification: The correctness of the facts contained in any violation
notice shall be verified by the person issuing the notice by:
      1.    Signing his/her name to the violation notice at the time of
issuance; or
      2.    In the case of a notice being produced by a computer, signing a
single certificate, to be kept by the code enforcement administrator attesting
to the correctness of all notices produced by the computer while under their
control.
   D.   Scheduling Adjudicatory Proceedings: Adjudicatory hearings shall be
scheduled with reasonable promptness, provided that for adjudicatory hearings
scheduled in all non-emergency situations, if requested by the alleged
violator, the alleged violator shall have at least 15 days after service of
process to prepare for an adjudicatory hearing. If service is provided by mail,
the 15-day period shall begin to run on the day that the violation notice and
notice to appear is deposited in the mail.
   E.   Docketing and Notice: The docketing and service of violation notices
shall be made in the following manner:
      1.   Alleged violators shall be served with process in a manner
reasonably calculated to give them actual notice. For purposes of this chapter,
“a manner reasonably calculated to give actual notice” shall mean, as
appropriate, service by first-class mail at an alleged violator’s address;
personal service of process upon an alleged violator or their employer or
agent; affixing the original or facsimile of the notice to an unlawfully
standing or parked vehicle, unstickered vehicle, vehicle violating any
compliance regulation; or, posting a notice upon the property where the
violation is found where the alleged violator is the owner, tenant, or
administrator of the property.
      2.   The original or a copy of the violation notice shall be retained by
the code enforcement administrator, with a docket number stamped on all copies
and a hearing date noted;
      3.   The notice shall be kept as a record in the ordinary course of
business by the code enforcement administrator and shall be a part of the
hearing record;
      4.   One copy of the violation notice shall be returned to the person
issuing the notice so that he or she may prepare evidence for presentation at
the hearing on the date indicated;
      5.   One copy of the violation notice shall be served to the alleged
violator along with a summons commanding the alleged violator to appear at the
hearing;
      6.   In the case of a violation pertaining to real property, if the name
of the property owner cannot be ascertained or if service on the owner cannot
be made by mail, service may be made on the owner by posting or nailing a copy
of the violation notice form on the front door of the structure where then
violation is found, not less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing is
scheduled.
      7.   In the case of a building code or unified development code
violation, if the city has an ordinance or code provision requiring property
owners, meaning the legal or beneficial owner(s) of the structure, to register
with it, service may be made on the owner by mailing the violation notice and
notice to appear to the property owner’s address registered with the city. If
the name of the property owner cannot be ascertained or if service on the owner
cannot be made by mail, service may be made on the owner by posting or affixing
a copy of the violation notice and notice to appear on the front door of the
structure where the violation is found, not less than fifteen (15) days before
the hearing is scheduled.
      8.   In the case of violation notice alleging a parking, standing, or
stopping violation of a motor vehicle, the violation notice may be served by
leaving a copy of the violation notice on the windshield of the motor vehicle
or by handing the notice to the operator of the vehicle, if present.
      9.   If the city requires the party to respond to the violation notice
within a specified amount of time, the city shall file a reply with the code
hearing unit within the same amount of time afforded to the party responding to
the complaint.
      10.   Any violation notice issued, signed and served in accordance
herewith shall be prima facie correct and shall be prima facie evidence of the
correctness of the facts shown on the notice and shall be admissible in a
subsequent administrative or legal hearing.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.106. Eviction; Rights Of The Occupants.
   No action for eviction, abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer
or other similar proceeding shall be threatened or instituted against an
occupant of a dwelling solely because such occupant agrees to testify or
testifies at a code or ordinance violation hearing.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.107. Subpoenas.
   Parties may request the hearing officer to issue subpoenas to direct the
attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses, as well as the product of
relevant documents. All costs associated with a subpoena shall be prepaid by
the requesting party and shall include the cost of serving the subpoena and
witness fees equal to the fee that would be provided a subpoenaed witness in a
civil case if the Code of Illinois Procedure was applicable.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.108. Representation at Hearings.
   The case for the city may be presented by an attorney designated by the city
manager or by any other city employee. The case for the alleged violator may be
presented by the alleged violator, their attorney, or any other agent or
representative of the alleged violator. When the alleged violator is a
corporation, limited liability company or partnership, the alleged violator
must be represented by an attorney. An attorney or agent appearing at an
adjudication hearing on behalf of the alleged violator shall present the
administrative hearing officer with a signed appearance form stating, on oath
or affirmation, that he or she has been authorized by the alleged violator to
represent the alleged violator at the hearing.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.109. Adjudicatory Hearings.
   An adjudicatory hearing shall be held to adjudicate an alleged city code or
ordinance violation on its merits, or to contest the validity of a violation
notice in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   Hearing Time and Date; Limited Continuances: Hearings for all “must
appear” or “required to appear” violations and contested allegations will be
held at the date, time, and place specified in the violation notice and notice
to appear. No continuances shall be authorized by the hearing officer in
proceedings under this chapter, except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the alleged violator, or if both
the city and the alleged violator agree to a continuance. A lack of preparation
or a scheduling conflict are not valid reasons for a continuance.
   B.   Strict Rules of Evidence Inapplicable: At the hearing, the hearing
officer shall preside, administer oaths and affirmation, hear testimony and
accept any evidence relevant to the existence or nonexistence of a city code or
ordinance violation. The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not be
applied in an adjudicatory hearing under this chapter, subject to the condition
that hearsay shall be admissible if it is of a type commonly relied upon by
reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
   C.   Burden of Proof: The burden shall be on the city to prove by a
preponderance of the evidence that the alleged violation occurred.
   D.   Record: A record of all adjudicatory hearings shall be kept by tape
recording or other appropriate means.
   E.   Defenses to Building and Life Safety Code Violations: In the case of a
building and life safety code violations only, it shall be a defense to a
charge of such violation(s) under this section if the owner, their attorney, or
any other agent or representative proves to the hearing officer’s satisfaction
that:
      1.   The violation did not exist;
      2.   The code violation has been caused by the current property occupants
and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the property owners to maintain the
structure free of such violation(s), the current occupants continue to cause
the code violation(s);
      3.   The occupant or resident of the structure has refused entry to the
owner or its agent for purposes of correcting the code violation.
      4.   In the case where the hearing officer finds the defense set forth in
subparagraph 2 or 3 above, such finding shall authorize the issuance of notices
of violation against the occupants of the property who upon a finding of a
violation shall become liable for any penalties, compliance or action order
that can be entered by the hearing officer.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.110. Findings, Decision and Order.
   A.   At the conclusion of the adjudicatory hearing, the hearing officer
shall make a determination (the “Final Administrative Decision”), based on the
evidence presented at the adjudicatory hearing, of whether or not a code or
ordinance violation exists. The Final Administrative Decision shall be in
writing and shall be designated as findings, decision, and order. The findings,
decision, and order shall include: a) the hearing officer’s findings of fact;
b) a decision of whether or not a code or ordinance violation exists based upon
the findings of fact; and c) an order that states the fine, penalty and/or
compliance action required, or dismisses the case if a violation is not proved.
   B.   A monetary sanction for a violation under this article shall not exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) or the amount provided for in section 1-
2-1 of the Illinois municipal code as amended from time to time, per code
violation or count stated in a violation notice.
   C.   In addition to, and not in lieu of, any penalty or other remedy
provided in this code, the hearing officer or the circuit court, whatever the
case may be, may enter an order enjoining any ongoing or repeated violation of
this code or otherwise mandating compliance with this code upon due notice of
such violation.
   D.   If, on the date set for hearing, the alleged violator or their attorney
fails to appear, the hearing officer may enter a default judgment of liability
and impose a penalty in accordance this chapter, upon determining that a
factual basis exists that a code violation occurred.
   E.   Upon finding the alleged violator in default, the code enforcement
administrator or his or her designee shall send or cause to be sent notices by
first class mail, postage prepaid to the violator who receives the notice of a
code or ordinance violation. Service of the notice sent in accordance herewith
shall be complete as of the date of the deposit of the first-class mail in the
United States mail.
   F.   A violator against whom a default judgment has been entered may file a
motion to vacate the default judgment with the code enforcement administrator
or hearing officer and request a new hearing. Such motion shall be filed within
21 days after the issuance of the default order. A motion to vacate shall set
forth the reasons the violator failed to appear on the original hearing date
along with the basis for a defense to the code violation. The hearing officer
shall hear and rule on the motion. The hearing officer may set aside the
default judgment if sufficient evidence is presented demonstrating that the
petitioner’s failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause or that the
city did not provide proper service of process. If any judgment is set aside
pursuant to this subsection, the hearing officer shall have authority to enter
an order extinguishing any lien which has been recorded for any debt due and
owing the city as a result of the vacated default judgment.
   G.   A default judgment constitutes a final determination for purposes of
judicial review and is subject to review under the Illinois Administrative
Review Law, 735 ILCS 5/3-101.
   H.   A copy of the Final Administrative Decision shall be served on the
violator within five (5) days after it is issued. The Final Administrative
Decision shall be served in a manner allowed in section 18.105 of this code,
unless the parties agree to an alternative form of service.
   I.   Payment of any penalty or fine and the disposition of fine money shall
be in the same manner as set forth in this code and city ordinances.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.111.     Order and Sanction Attached to Property.
   In the case of a Chapter 12, Building Code violation, the order to correct
the violation and the sanctions imposed by the city as the result of a finding
of a building code violation under this Chapter shall attach to the property as
well as to the property owner so that a finding of a building code violation
against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or transferring the property
to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner of the property takes
subject to the findings, decision, and order of a hearing officer under this
Chapter.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.112. Review Under Administrative Review Law.
   The Final Administrative Decision of the hearing officer shall constitute a
final determination and shall be subject to review in the circuit court of the
18th judicial circuit. The provisions of the Administrative Review Law, as
amended, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto, shall apply to and govern
every action for judicial review of a Final Administrative Decision of a
hearing officer under this Chapter.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.113. Penalties, Court Fees, and Judgment Collection Procedure.
   A.   Where a finding of a violation is made, the following penalties, and
any other applicable penalties provided for elsewhere in the city code, or a
combination thereof may be imposed:
      1.   A penalty not to exceed $750.00 per code violation or count stated
in the violation notice, for each day the violation exists, with a maximum
cumulative daily penalty not to exceed $50,000.00 per code violation or count
stated in the violation notice. The maximum monetary penalty imposed under the
city code shall be exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs incurred by the
city to secure compliance with the city code. This penalty limit does not apply
to cases to enforce the collection of any tax imposed and collected by the
city.
      2.   Remediation;
      3.   Community service;
      4.   Restitution.
   B.   The city shall impose a non-refundable court fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) on any person found liable for a violation of the city code through
the administrative adjudication process. This fee shall be assessed in addition
to any fines, penalties, or other costs imposed under the findings, decision,
and order of the administrative hearing officer.
   C.    Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the Illinois Administrative
Review Law (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.) shall be a debt due and owing to the city
and may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
   D.   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois Administrative Review Law may be sought for a Final Administrative
Decision of a code or ordinance violation, unless stayed by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the findings, decision, and order of the hearing
officer may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   E.   In any case in which a defendant has failed to comply with a judgment
ordering a defendant to correct a code violation or imposing any fine or other
sanction as a result of a code violation, any expenses incurred by the city to
enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney’s fees, courts
costs, and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure, after they are
fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a hearing officer, shall be a
debt due and owing the city and may be collected in accordance with applicable
law. Prior to any expenses being fixed by a hearing officer pursuant to this
subsection, the city shall provide notice to the defendant that state that the
defendant shall appear at hearing before the hearing officer to determine
whether the defendant has failed to comply with the judgment. The notice shall
set the date for such hearing, which shall not be less than seven days from the
date that notice is served. If notice is served by mail, the seven (7) day
period shall begin to run on the date that the notice was deposited in the
mail.
   F.   Upon being recorded in the manner required by Article XII of the Code
of Civil Procedure, 735 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq., or the Uniform Commercial Code,
810 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., a lien shall be imposed on the real estate or
personal estate, or both, of the defendant in the amount of any debt due and
owing the city under this chapter. The lien may be enforced in the same manner
as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.114. Federal Government Contracts; Maintenance Of Property; Penalties.
   A.   A person who contracts with the federal government or any of its
agencies, including, without limitation, the department of housing and urban
development, to care for vacant residential real estate shall be responsible
for maintaining the property to prevent and correct municipal health and safety
code or ordinance violations.
   B.   A person who intentionally violates this section is guilty of a
business offense and shall be fined not less than five hundred one dollars
($501.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
ARTICLE II
DIVISION OF GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
18.201. Definitions
18.202. Violations
18.203. Establishment
18.204. Hearing Procedures Not Exclusive
18.205. Traffic Compliance Administrator
18.206. First Notice Of Violation
18.207. Recorded Images
18.208. Service Of First Notice Of Violation
18.209. Certification Of The First Violation Notice
18.210. Hearing Fee Prohibited
18.211. Prima Facie Evidence
18.212. Nonresidents
18.213. Hearing
18.214. Limited Affirmative Defenses
18.215. Final Determinations Of Violation Liability
18.216. Notice Of Determination of Liability
18.217. Notice Of Final Determination
18.218. Petition To Set Aside
18.219. Fines And Penalties
18.220. Court Fee Assessment
18.221. Non-liability
18.222. Administrative Review Law
18.223. Final Disposition
18.224. Judgment
18.225. Vehicle Immobilization
Sec. 18.201. Definitions.
As used in this article, unless the context requires otherwise, the following
definitions shall have the meanings ascribed:
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: A device within the City of Wood Dale
with one (1) or more motor vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a red
light signal to produce recorded images of motor vehicles entering an
intersection against a steady or flashing red signal indication in violation of
section 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-306, or similar
violation of the City of Wood Dale Municipal Code.
DISREGARDING A TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: Failure to stop and remain stopped
before an intersection that is controlled by a red signal as provided for in
section 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
NO TURN ON RED: Where the motor vehicle comes to a complete stop and does not
enter the intersection as defined by section 1-132 of the Code, during the
cycle of the red signal indication unless one (1) or more pedestrians are
present, even if the motor vehicle stops at a point past a stop line or
crosswalk where a driver is required to stop, as specified in subsection (c) of
Section 11-306 of the Code or this Ordinance.
RECORDED IMAGES: Images produced by the automated traffic law enforcement
system, which consist of either two (2) or more photographs; two (2) or more
microphotographs; two (2) or more electronic images; or, a video recording
showing the motor vehicle and, on at least one (1) image or portion of the
recording, clearly identifying the registration plate or digital registration
plate number of the motor vehicle.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.202. Violations.
   It shall be a violation of this article for a vehicle to disregard a traffic
control device or turn on red in violation of section 11-306 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.203. Establishment.
The city hereby adopts the provision of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3, as amended from time to time, governing the
exclusive procedure for the administrative adjudication of all city code and
ordinance violations involving automated traffic law regulations.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.204. Hearing Procedures Not Exclusive.
   The city is not precluded from using other methods to enforce the provisions
of this code and city ordinances such as instituting an action in a court of
law.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.205. Traffic Compliance Administrator.
   The city chief of police shall designate a traffic compliance administrator
who is authorized to adopt, distribute and process automated traffic law
violation notices and other notices required by this article, collect money
paid as fines and penalties for violation of automated traffic law violations,
and operate an administrative adjudication system.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.206. First Notice Of Violation.
An automated traffic law violation notice shall contain the following
information:
   A.   The date, time, and place of violation of an automated traffic law
regulation; and
   B.   The particular regulation violated; and
   C.   Any requirement to complete a traffic education program; and
   D.   The amount of the civil penalty imposed, and the requirements of any
traffic education program imposed and the date by which the civil penalty
should be paid, and the traffic education program should be completed; and
   E.   The fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment or
failure to complete a required traffic education program, or both; and
   F.   The vehicle make, where available and readily discernible and state
registration number; and
   G.   The identification number of the person issuing the notice; and
   H.   A statement that the person may elect to proceed by:
      1.   Paying the fine, completing a required traffic education program, or
both; or
      2.   Challenging the charge by mail in the case of nonresidents, or by an
administrative hearing; and
   I.   A statement that the completion of any required traffic education
program, the payment of any indicated fine, and the payment of any applicable
penalty for late payment or failure to complete a required traffic education
program, or both, shall operate as a final disposition of the violation; and
   J.   Information as to the availability of a hearing in which the violation
may be contested on its merits; and
   K.   Information about the time and manner in which a hearing may be had;
and
   L.   A warning that failure to pay the civil penalty, to complete a required
traffic education program, or to contest liability in a timely manner is an
admission of liability and may result in a suspension of the driving privileges
of the registered owner of the vehicle; and
   M.   A statement that recorded images are evidence of a violation of an
automated traffic regulation; and
   N.   A website address, accessible through the internet, where the person
may view the recorded images of the violation.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.207. Recorded Images.
   A.   Recorded images made by an automatic traffic law enforcement system are
confidential and shall be made available only to the alleged violator and
governmental and law enforcement agencies for purposes of adjudicating a
violation, for statistical purposes, or for other governmental purposes. Any
recorded image evidencing an automated traffic law violation, however, may be
admissible in any proceeding resulting from the issuance of the citation.
   B.   The city shall make the recorded images of an automated traffic law
violation accessible to the alleged violator by providing the alleged violator
with a website address, accessible through the internet.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.208. Service Of First Notice Of Violation.
   The notice shall be delivered to the registered owner of the vehicle, by
mail, within thirty (30) days after the secretary of state notifies the city of
the identity of the owner of the vehicle, but in no event later than ninety
(90) days after the violation.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.209. Certification Of The First Violation Notice.
   A notice of violation associated with an automated traffic law violation
shall require a determination made by a technician employed or contracted by
the city that, based on inspection of recorded images, the motor vehicle was
being operated in violation of section 11-208.6, 11-208.9 or 11-1201.1 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code as incorporated in this code and city ordinances. If the
technician determines that the vehicle entered the intersection as part of a
funeral procession or in order to yield the right of way to an emergency
vehicle, a citation shall not be issued. All determinations by a technician
that a motor vehicle was being operated in violation of the automated traffic
law must be reviewed and approved by a law enforcement officer or retired law
enforcement officer of the city. The original or a facsimile of the violation
notice or, in the case of a notice produced by a computerized device, a printed
record generated by the device showing the facts entered on the notice, shall
be retained by the traffic compliance administrator, and shall be a record kept
in the ordinary course of business.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.210. Hearing Fee Prohibited.
   No additional fee shall be charged to the alleged violator for exercising
his or her right to an administrative hearing.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.211. Prima Facie Evidence.
   An automated traffic law violation notice issued, signed and served in
accordance with this article, a copy of the notice, or the computer generated
record shall be prima facie correct and shall be prima facie evidence of the
correctness of the facts shown on the notice. The notice, copy, or computer
generated record shall be admissible in any subsequent administrative or legal
proceedings.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.212. Nonresidents.
   Where the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle is not a resident
of the city but seeks to contest the merits of the alleged violation, such
person may contest the charges using the same available defenses as stated
above, but rather than attend the administrative hearing, they may submit any
and all documentary evidence to the traffic compliance administrator no later
than the hearing date, together with a written statement reflecting that they
are nonresidents of the City of Wood Dale. The traffic compliance administrator
shall forward all timely-submitted materials to the hearing officer for review
and determination.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.213. Hearing.
   The registered owner of the vehicle cited in the automated traffic law
violation notice may request a hearing by the respond-by date on the notice of
violation to challenge the evidence or set forth an applicable defense. A
lessee of a vehicle cited in the violation notice likewise shall be provided an
opportunity for a hearing of the same kind afforded the registered owner. The
notice of violation shall constitute evidence of the facts contained in the
notice and is admissible in any proceeding alleging an automated traffic law
violation. The notices of violation shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation, subject to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses established in
section
18.412. The registered owner’s failure to appear will result in a finding of
liability. In the event of a failure to appear, a “Findings, Decision, and
Order” letter will be sent to the registered owner. The owner’s failure to pay
the amount by the date specified will result in a final determination. The
hearings shall be recorded, and the person conducting the hearing on behalf of
the traffic compliance administrator shall be empowered to administer oaths and
to secure by subpoena both the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
production of relevant books and papers. Persons appearing at a hearing under
this article may be represented by counsel at their expense.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.214. Limited Affirmative Defenses For Automated Traffic Law Violations.
   The hearing officer shall only consider in defense of a violation:
   A.   The motor vehicle or registration plates of the motor vehicle were
stolen before the violation occurred and not under the control of or in the
possession of the owner at the time of the violation. To demonstrate that the
motor vehicle or the registration plates were stolen before the violation
occurred and were not under the control or possession of the owner at the time
of the violation, the owner must submit proof that a report concerning the
stolen motor vehicle or registration plates was filed with a law enforcement
agency in a timely manner.
   B.   The driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection when the
light was red either: 1) in order to yield the right of way to an emergency
vehicle or 2) as part of a funeral procession for an automated red light
violation.
   C.   The driver of the motor vehicle received a uniform traffic citation
from a police officer at the time of the violation for the same offense.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.215. Final Determinations Of Violation Liability.
   A final determination of violation liability shall occur following failure
to complete the required traffic education program or to pay the fine or
penalty, or both, after a hearing officer’s determination of violation
liability and the exhaustion of or failure to exhaust any administrative review
procedures provided by city code. Where a person fails to appear at a hearing
to contest the alleged violation in the time and manner specified in a prior
mailed notice, the hearing officer’s determination of violation liability shall
become final: a) upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that
determination, or b) upon expiration of the period for filing the petition
without a filing having been made.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.216. Notice of Determination of Liability.
   A determination of automated traffic law violation liability shall occur
following failure to pay the fine or penalty, or to contest the alleged
violation within twenty-one (21) days of the notice of violation. Where a
person fails to appear at a hearing to contest the alleged violation in the
time and manner specified in a prior mailed notice, the hearing officer will
enter a findings, decision and order determination of automated traffic law
violation liability which shall become final: (a) upon denial of a timely
petition to set aside that determination, or (b) upon expiration of the period
for filing such a petition without a filing having been made. If a person
appears at a hearing and is found liable or contests the violation by mail and
is found liable, the hearing officer will enter findings, decision and order,
which is a final determination of automated traffic law violation liability
that is a final, appealable order.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.217. Notice Of Final Determination Of Automated Traffic Law Violation.
   A notice shall be sent following a final determination of automated traffic
law violation liability and the conclusion of review procedures taken under
this article. The notice shall state that the incomplete traffic education
program or the unpaid fine or penalty, or both, is a debt due and owing the
municipality. The notice shall contain warnings that failure to complete any
required traffic education program or to pay any fine or penalty due and owing
the city, or both, within the time specified may result in the city’s filing of
a petition in the circuit court of the 18th judicial circuit to have the
incomplete traffic education program or unpaid fine or penalty, or both,
rendered a judgment as provided by this article.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.218. Petition To Set Aside.
   A petition to set aside a determination of automated traffic law violation
liability may be filed by a person owing an unpaid fine or penalty. A petition
to set aside a determination of liability may also be filed by a person
required to complete a traffic education program. The petition shall be filed
with and ruled upon by the traffic compliance administrator. The grounds for
the petition are limited to: a) the person not having been the owner or lessee
of the cited vehicle on the date the violation notice was issued, b) the person
having already completed the required traffic education program or paid the
fine or penalty, or both, for the violation in question, and c) excusable
failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing. Any such petition
shall be filed no more than twenty one (21) days after a final determination of
violation liability. After the determination of an automated traffic law
violation liability has been set aside upon a showing of just cause, the
registered owner shall be provided with a hearing on the merits for that
violation. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.219. Fines And Penalties.
   A violation of an automated red light regulation shall be subject to a fine
of not more or less than one hundred dollars ($100.00). A violation of an
automated railroad crossing regulation shall be subject to a fine of not more
or less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for the first violation and
not more or less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a second or subsequent
violation. Upon a final determination of violation of an automated traffic law
regulation, the registered owner of the vehicle shall have thirty (30) days to
satisfy any applicable fine. In the event the registered owner of the vehicle
fails to timely and fully satisfy the applicable fine, the registered owner of
the vehicle shall be assessed an additional one hundred dollars ($100.00). In
addition to or in lieu of a fine, the registered owner of the vehicle may be
ordered to complete a required traffic education program. In the event the
registered owner of the vehicle fails to timely complete a required traffic
education program, the registered owner of the vehicle shall be assessed an
additional one hundred dollars ($100.00). A low income individual required to
complete a traffic education program who provided proof of eligibility for the
Federal Earned Income tax credit under section 32 of the Internal Revenue Code
of the Illinois Earned Income Tax credit under section 212 of the Illinois
Income Tax Act is not required to pay any fee for participating in a traffic
education program. A registered owner who is a holder of a valid commercial
driver’s license is not required to complete a traffic education program. For
purposes of the required traffic education program only, a registered owner may
submit an affidavit to the hearing officer swearing that at the time of the
alleged violation, the vehicle was in the custody and control of another
person. The affidavit must identify the person in custody and control of the
vehicle, including the person’s name and current address. The person in custody
and control of the vehicle at the time of the violation is required to complete
the required traffic education program. If the person in custody and control of
the vehicle at the time of the violation completes the required traffic
education program, the registered owner of the vehicle is not required to
complete a traffic education program.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.220. Court Fee Assessment.
   The city shall impose a non-refundable court fee of fifty dollars ($50.00)
on any person found liable for a violation of an automated traffic law through
the administrative adjudication process. This fee shall be assessed in addition
to any fines, penalties, or other costs imposed under the findings, decision,
and order of the administrative hearing officer.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.221. Non-Liability.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, a person shall
not be liable for violations, fees, fines, or penalties for an automated
traffic law violation during the period in which the motor vehicle was stole or
hijacked, as indicated in a report to the appropriate law enforcement agency
filed in a timely manner.
(Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.222. Administrative Review Law.
   Judicial review of final determinations of automated traffic law violations
and final administrative decisions issued after hearings regarding vehicle
immobilization and impoundment made under this article shall be subject to the
provisions of the administrative review law.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.223. Final Disposition.
   Any fine, penalty, incomplete traffic education program, or part of any fine
or any penalty remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the failure to
exhaust, administrative remedies created under this article and the conclusion
of any judicial review procedures shall be a debt due and owing the city and,
as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law. Completion of any
required traffic education program and payment in full of any fine or penalty
resulting from an automated traffic law violation shall constitute a final
disposition of that violation.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.224. Judgment.
   After the expiration of the period within which judicial review may be
sought for a final determination of an automated traffic law violation, the
city may commence a proceeding in the circuit court of the 18th judicial
circuit for purposes of obtaining a judgment on the final determination of
violation. Nothing in this article shall prevent the city from consolidating
multiple final determinations of automated traffic law violations against a
person in a proceeding. Upon commencement of the action, the city shall file a
certified copy or record of the final determination of automated traffic law
violation, which shall be accompanied by a certification that recites facts
sufficient to show that the final determination of violation was issued in
accordance with this article and the Illinois vehicle code. Service of the
summons and a copy of the petition may be by any method provided by section
2-203 of the code of civil procedure or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, provided that the total amount of fines and penalties for final
determinations of automated traffic law violations does not exceed two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). If the court is satisfied that the final
determination of an automated traffic law violation was entered in accordance
with the requirements of this article and the Illinois Vehicle Code, and that
the registered owner or the lessee, as the case may be, had an opportunity for
an administrative hearing and for judicial review as provided in this article,
the court shall render judgment in favor of the city and against the registered
owner or the lessee for the amount indicated in the final determination of
automated traffic law violation, plus costs. The judgment shall have the same
effect and may be enforced in the same manner as other judgments for the
recovery of money.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
Sec. 18.225. Vehicle Immobilization.
   The city is authorized to immobilize any eligible vehicle upon the public
way by presence of a restraint in a manner to prevent operation of the vehicle
to enforce the provisions of this article.
   A.   A vehicle shall be eligible for immobilization when the registered
owner of the vehicle has accumulated any combination of three (3) or more
incomplete traffic education programs or unpaid final determinations of
parking, standing, compliance, or automated traffic law violations.
   B.   At least twenty one (21) days prior to immobilization, the city shall
send to the registered owner of an eligible vehicle a notice of impending
vehicle immobilization and shall provide the registered owner a right to a
hearing to challenge the validity of the notice by disproving liability for the
incomplete traffic education programs or unpaid final determinations of
parking, standing, compliance, or automated traffic law violation liability, or
both, listed on the notice.
   C.   The registered owner shall have the right to a prompt hearing after a
vehicle has been immobilized or subsequently towed without the completion of
the required traffic education program or payment of the outstanding fines and
penalties on parking, standing, compliance, or automated traffic law
violations, or both, for which final determinations have been issued. An order
issued after the hearing is a final administrative decision within the meaning
of section
3-101 of the code of civil procedure.
   D.   The city shall send a post-immobilization and post-towing notice
advising the registered owner of the vehicle of the right to a hearing to
challenge the validity of the impoundment.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010; amd. Ord. O-24-041, - - )
ARTICLE III
DIVISION OF REAL PROPERTY ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
18.301. Establishment
18.302. Hearing Procedures Not Exclusive
18.303. Instituting Adjudication Proceedings
18.304. Subpoenas; Defaults
18.305. Continuances; Representation At Hearings
18.306. Hearing; Evidence
18.307. Eviction; Rights Of The Occupants
18.308. Defenses To Code Or Ordinance Violations
18.309. Findings, Decision, Order
18.310. Administrative Review
18.311. Judgment On Findings, Decision, Order
18.312. Sanctions Applicable To Owner; Property
18.313. Civil Liability For Rentals In Excess Of Number Permitted By Ordinance;
Definitions
18.314. Federal Government Contracts; Maintenance Of Property; Penalties
18.315. Application For Grants
Sec. 18.301. Establishment.
The city hereby adopts the provisions of the Illinois municipal code, 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-1 et seq., as amended from time to time,
governing the exclusive procedure for the administrative adjudication of all
real property use regulations set forth in this code and city ordinances. (Ord.
O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.302. Hearing Procedures Not Exclusive.
The city is not precluded from using other methods to enforce the provisions of
this code and city ordinances such as instituting an action in a court of law.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.303. Instituting Adjudication Proceedings.
When a building inspector finds a code or ordinance violation while inspecting
a structure, he shall note the violation on a multiple copy violation notice
and report form, indicating the name and address of the structure owner, the
type and nature of the violation, the date and time the violation was observed,
the names of witnesses to the violation, and the address of the structure where
the violation is observed.
The violation report form shall be forwarded by the building inspector to the
division of real property administrative adjudication where a docket number
shall be stamped on all copies of the report, and a hearing date noted in the
blank spaces provided for that purpose on the form. The hearing date shall not
be less than thirty (30) nor more than forty (40) days after the violation is
reported by the building inspector.
One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in the files of the
division of real property administrative adjudication and shall be part of the
record of hearing, one copy of the report form shall be returned to the
building inspector so that he may prepare evidence of the code or ordinance
violation for presentation at the hearing on the date indicated, and one copy
of the report form shall be served by first class mail on the owner of the
structure, along with a summons commanding the owner to appear at the hearing.
If the name of the owner of the structure cannot be ascertained or if service
on the owner cannot be made by mail, service may be made on the owner by
posting or nailing a copy of the violation report form on the front door of the
structure where the violation is found, not less than twenty (20) days before
the hearing is scheduled. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.304. Subpoenas; Defaults.
At any time prior to the hearing date the hearing officer assigned to hear the
case may, at the request of the building inspector or the attorney for the
city, or the owner or his attorney, issue subpoenas directing witnesses to
appear and give testimony at the hearing. If on the date set for hearing the
owner or his attorney fails to appear, the hearing officer may find the owner
in default and shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to
the existence of a city code or ordinance violation. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.305. Continuances; Representation At Hearings.
No continuances shall be authorized by the hearing officer in proceedings under
this article except in cases where a continuance is absolutely necessary to
protect the rights of the owner. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a
continuance. Any continuance authorized by a hearing officer under this article
shall not exceed twenty five (25) days. The case for the city may be presented
by an attorney designated by the city. The case for the structure's owner may
be presented by the owner, his attorney, or any other agent or representative.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.306. Hearing; Evidence.
At the hearing, a hearing officer shall preside and shall hear testimony and
accept any evidence relevant to the existence or nonexistence of a code or
ordinance violation in the structure indicated. The strict rules of evidence
applicable to judicial proceedings shall not apply to hearings authorized by
this article. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.307. Eviction; Rights Of The Occupants.
No action for eviction, abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer or
other similar proceeding shall be threatened or instituted against an occupant
of a dwelling solely because such occupant agrees to testify or testifies at a
code or ordinance violation hearing. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.308. Defenses To Code Or Ordinance Violations.
It shall be a defense to a code or ordinance violation charged under this
article if the owner, his attorney, or any other agent or representative proves
to the hearing officer's satisfaction that:
   A.   The code or ordinance violation alleged in the notice does not in fact
exist, or at the time of the hearing the violation has been remedied or
removed;
   B.   The code or ordinance violation has been caused by the current property
occupants and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the owner to maintain the
dwelling free of such violations, the current occupants continue to cause the
violations;
   C.   An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the owner
or his agent to all or a part of the dwelling for the purpose of correcting the
code or ordinance violation. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.309. Findings, Decision, Order.
At the conclusion of the hearing the hearing officer shall make a determination
on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing whether or not a code or
ordinance violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and shall be
designated as findings, decision and order. The findings, decision and order
shall include the hearing officer's findings of fact, a decision whether or not
a code or ordinance violation exists based upon the findings of fact, and an
order, ordering the owner to correct the violation or dismissing the case, in
the event a violation is not proved. If a code or ordinance violation is
proved, the order may also impose the sanctions that are provided in the code
or ordinance for the violation proved. A copy of the findings, decision, and
order shall be served on the owner within five (5) days after they are issued;
service shall be in the same manner as the report form and summons are served
pursuant to this article. Payment of any penalty or fine and the disposition of
fine money shall be in the same manner as set forth in this code or city
ordinance. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.310. Administrative Review.
The findings, decision and order of the hearing officer shall be subject to
review in the circuit court of the 18th judicial circuit, and the provisions of
the administrative review law, and all amendments and modifications thereto,
and the rules adopted pursuant thereto are adopted and shall apply to and
govern every action for the judicial review of the final findings, decision and
order of a hearing officer under this article. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.311. Judgment On Findings, Decision, Order.
   A.   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the administrative review
law shall be a debt due and owing the city and, as such, may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under the
administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of the code
or ordinance violation, the city may commence a proceeding in the circuit court
of the 18th judicial circuit for purposes of obtaining a judgment on the
findings, decision and order. Nothing in this article shall prevent the city
from consolidating multiple findings, decisions and orders against a person in
such a proceeding. Upon commencement of the action, the city shall file a
certified copy of the findings, decision and order, which shall be accompanied
by a certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the findings,
decision and order was issued in accordance with this article and the Illinois
municipal code. Service of the summons and a copy of the petition may be by any
method provided by section 2-203 of the code of civil procedure or by certified
mail, return receipt requested, provided that the total amount of fines, other
sanctions and costs imposed by the findings, decision and order does not exceed
two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). If the court is satisfied that
the findings, decision and order were entered in accordance with the
requirements of this article and the Illinois municipal code, and that the
property owner had an opportunity for a hearing under this article and for
judicial review as provided in this article: 1) the court shall render judgment
in favor of the municipality and against the property owner for the amount
indicated in the findings, decision and order, plus costs. Such judgment shall
have the same effect and may be enforced in the same manner as other judgments
for the recovery of money; and 2) the court may also issue such other orders
and injunctions as are requested by the city to enforce the order of the
hearing officer to correct a code or ordinance violation. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-
2010)
Sec. 18.312. Sanctions Applicable To Owner; Property.
The order to correct a code or ordinance violation and the sanctions imposed by
the city as the result of a finding of a code or ordinance violation under this
article shall attach to the property as well as to the owner of the property,
so that a finding of a code or ordinance violation against one owner cannot be
avoided by conveying or transferring the property to another owner. Any
subsequent transferee or owner of property takes subject to the findings,
decision and order of a hearing officer under this article. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-
4-2010)
Sec. 18.313. Civil Liability For Rentals In Excess Of Number Permitted By
Ordinance; Definitions.
   A.   The owner of a building located in the city who, directly or
indirectly, has collected, or caused to be collected, rentals from an occupant
of that building during a period in which the number of apartments or family
units in that building exceeded the number permitted for that building by this
code and city ordinances, is liable to any such occupant in an amount equal to
not more than three (3) times the amount of any rentals paid by any such
occupant, or in his behalf, after January 1, 1970, together with court costs
and reasonable attorney fees. If the occupant is a recipient of public aid
under article III, IV, or VI of "the Illinois public aid code", approved April
11, 1967, as amended, in whose behalf vendor payment of the rental was made by
the Illinois department of public aid, the department of human services (acting
as successor to the department of public aid under the department of human
services act), or a local governmental unit, as the case may be, the liability
as herein provided is to the Illinois department of public aid, the department
of human services (acting as successor to the department of public aid under
the department of human services act), or the local governmental unit making
the vendor payment of the rental.
   B.   For the purposes of this article:
    FAMILY UNIT: A room or group of rooms used or intended to be used as a
housekeeping unit for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. The fact that any
such family unit is used or intended to be used with cooking or eating
accommodations in common with another family unit in any such building does not
affect liability hereunder.
   OWNER: The legal or beneficial owner of a building.
   C.   No liability accrues under this article until thirty (30) days after
the owner of record of a building has been notified in writing that such owner
is in violation of any such municipal ordinance. Such notice shall be
personally served upon such owner of record or sent by registered mail to the
last known address of such owner. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.314. Federal Government Contracts; Maintenance Of Property; Penalties.
   A.   A person who contracts with the federal government or any of its
agencies, including, without limitation, the department of housing and urban
development, to care for vacant residential real estate shall be responsible
for maintaining the property to prevent and correct municipal health and safety
code or ordinance violations.
   B.   A person who intentionally violates this section is guilty of a
business offense and shall be fined not less than five hundred one dollars
($501.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. O-10-021,
11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.315. Application For Grants.
The city may make application to the department of commerce and economic
opportunity for grants to help defray the cost of establishing and maintaining
a code hearing department as provided in this article. The application for
grants shall be in the manner and form prescribed by the department of commerce
and economic opportunity. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
ARTICLE IV
DIVISION OF VEHICLE ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
18.401. Establishment
18.402. Hearing Procedures Not Exclusive
18.403. Traffic Compliance Administrator
18.404. First Notice Of Violation; Required Information For All Vehicle
Regulations
18.405. First Notice Of Violation; Additional Required Information For
Automated Traffic Law Regulations
18.406. Recorded Images
18.407. Service Of First Notice Of Violation; Parking, Standing, Compliance
18.408. Service Of First Notice Of Violation; Automated Traffic Law
18.409. Certification Of The First Violation Notice; All Vehicle Regulations
18.410. Hearing Fee Prohibited
18.411. Prima Facie Evidence
18.412. Second Notice Of Violation; All Vehicle Regulations
18.413. Hearing
18.414. Limited Affirmative Defenses For Automated Traffic Law Violations
18.415. Final Determinations Of Violation Liability
18.416. Notice Of Final Determination Of Parking, Standing, Compliance Or
Automated Traffic Law Violation
18.417. Petition To Set Aside
18.418. Fines And Penalties
18.419. Administrative Review Law
18.420. Final Disposition
18.421. Judgment
18.422. Suspension Of Driver's License
18.423. Notice Of Impending Driver's License Suspension
18.424. Certified Report Requesting Suspension Of Driver's License
18.425. Certified Report; Hearing
18.426. Certified Report; Error
18.427. Vehicle Immobilization
Sec. 18.401. Establishment.
The city hereby adopts the provision of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3, as amended from time to time, governing the
exclusive procedure for the administrative adjudication of all city code and
ordinance violations involving parking, standing and compliance regulations and
automated traffic law regulations. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.402. Hearing Procedures Not Exclusive.
The city is not precluded from using other methods to enforce the provisions of
this code and city ordinances such as instituting an action in a court of law.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.403. Traffic Compliance Administrator.
The city chief of police shall designate a traffic compliance administrator who
is authorized to adopt, distribute and process parking, compliance, and
automated traffic law violation notices and other notices required by this
article, collect money paid as fines and penalties for violation of parking and
compliance ordinances and automated traffic law violations, and operate an
administrative adjudication system. The traffic compliance administrator also
may make a certified report to the secretary of state under section 6-306.5 of
the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.404. First Notice Of Violation; Required Information For All Vehicle
Regulations.
A parking, standing, compliance, or automated traffic law violation notice that
shall specify the date, time, and place of violation of a parking, standing,
compliance, or automated traffic law regulation; the particular regulation
violated; any requirement to complete a traffic education program; the fine and
any penalty that may be assessed for late payment or failure to complete a
required traffic education program, or both; the vehicle make and state
registration number; and the identification number of the person issuing the
notice. With regard to automated traffic law violations, vehicle make shall be
specified on the automated traffic law violation notice if the make is
available and readily discernible. The violation notice shall state that the
completion of any required traffic education program, the payment of any
indicated fine, and the payment of any applicable penalty for late payment or
failure to complete a required traffic education program, or both, shall
operate as a final disposition of the violation. The notice also shall contain
information as to the availability of a hearing in which the violation may be
contested on its merits. The violation notice shall specify the time and manner
in which a hearing may be had. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.405. First Notice Of Violation; Additional Required Information For
Automated Traffic Law Regulations.
The first violation notice shall include:
   A.   The name and address of the registered owner of the vehicle; and
   B.   The registration number of the motor vehicle involved in the violation;
and
   C.   The violation charged; and
   D.   The location where the violation occurred; and
   E.   The date and time of the violation; and
   F.   A copy of the recorded images; and
   G.   The amount of the civil penalty imposed and the requirements of any
traffic education program imposed and the date by which the civil penalty
should be paid and the traffic education program should be completed; and
   H.   A statement that recorded images are evidence of a violation of an
automated traffic regulation; and
   I.   A warning that failure to pay the civil penalty, to complete a required
traffic education program, or to contest liability in a timely manner is an
admission of liability and may result in a suspension of the driving privileges
of the registered owner of the vehicle; and
   J.   A statement that the person may elect to proceed by:
      1.   Paying the fine, completing a required traffic education program, or
both; or
      2.   Challenging the charge by mail in the case of nonresidents, or by an
administrative hearing; and
   K.   A website address, accessible through the internet, where the person
may view the recorded images of the violation. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.406. Recorded Images.
   A.   "Recorded images" means images recorded by an automated traffic law
enforcement system on:
      1.   Two (2) or more photographs;
      2.   Two (2) or more microphotographs;
      3.   Two (2) or more electronic images; or
      4.   A video recording showing the motor vehicle and, on at least one
image or portion of the recording, clearly identifying the registration plate
number of the motor vehicle.
   B.   The city shall make the recorded images of an automated traffic law
violation accessible to the alleged violator by providing the alleged violator
with a website address, accessible through the internet. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-
2010)
Sec. 18.407. Service Of First Notice Of Violation; Parking, Standing,
Compliance.
Service of the first violation notice shall be made by affixing the original or
a facsimile of the notice to an unlawfully parked vehicle or by handing the
notice to the operator of a vehicle if he or she is present and by sending such
notice, by mail, to the address of the registered owner of the cited vehicle as
recorded with the secretary of state within thirty (30) days after the
secretary of state notifies the city of the identity of the owner of the
vehicle, but in no event later than ninety (90) days after the violation. (Ord.
O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.408. Service Of First Notice Of Violation; Automated Traffic Law.
The notice shall be delivered to the registered owner of the vehicle, by mail,
within thirty (30) days after the secretary of state notifies the city of the
identity of the owner of the vehicle, but in no event later than ninety (90)
days after the violation. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.409. Certification Of The First Violation Notice; All Vehicle
Regulations.
A person authorized by ordinance to issue and serve parking, standing, and
compliance violation notices shall certify as to the correctness of the facts
entered on the violation notice by signing his or her name to the notice at the
time of service or in the case of a notice produced by a computerized device,
by signing a single certificate to be kept by the traffic compliance
administrator attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the
device while it was under his or her control. In the case of an automated
traffic law violation, a technician employed or contracted by the city shall
determine that, based on inspection of recorded images, the motor vehicle was
being operated in violation of section 11-208.6 or 11-1201.1 of the Illinois
vehicle code as incorporated in this code and city ordinances. If the
technician determines that the vehicle entered the intersection as part of a
funeral procession or in order to yield the right of way to an emergency
vehicle, a citation shall not be issued. All determinations by a technician
that a motor vehicle was being operated in violation of the automated traffic
law must be reviewed and approved by a law enforcement officer or retired law
enforcement officer of the city. The original or a facsimile of the violation
notice or, in the case of a notice produced by a computerized device, a printed
record generated by the device showing the facts entered on the notice, shall
be retained by the traffic compliance administrator, and shall be a record kept
in the ordinary course of business. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.410. Hearing Fee Prohibited.
No additional fee shall be charged to the alleged violator for exercising his
or her right to an administrative hearing. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.411. Prima Facie Evidence.
A parking, standing, compliance, or automated traffic law violation notice
issued, signed and served in accordance with this article, a copy of the
notice, or the computer generated record shall be prima facie correct and shall
be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts shown on the notice.
The notice, copy, or computer generated record shall be admissible in any
subsequent administrative or legal proceedings. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.412. Second Notice Of Violation; All Vehicle Regulations.
This notice shall specify the date and location of the violation cited in the
parking, standing, or compliance violation notice, the particular regulation
violated, the vehicle make and state registration number, any requirement to
complete a traffic education program, the fine and any penalty that may be
assessed for late payment or failure to complete a traffic education program,
or both, the availability of a hearing in which the violation may be contested
on its merits, and the time and manner in which the hearing may be had. This
notice shall also state that failure to complete a required traffic education
program, to pay the indicated fine and any applicable penalty, or to appear at
a hearing on the merits in the time and manner specified, will result in a
final determination of violation liability for the cited violation in the
amount of the fine or penalty indicated, and that, upon the occurrence of a
final determination of violation liability for the failure, and the exhaustion
of, or failure to exhaust, available administrative or judicial procedures for
review, any incomplete traffic education program or any unpaid fine or penalty,
or both, will constitute a debt due and owing the city. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-
2010)
Sec. 18.413. Hearing.
The registered owner of the vehicle cited in the parking, standing, compliance,
or automated traffic law violation notice shall have an opportunity for a
hearing in which the owner may contest the merits of the alleged violation, and
during which formal or technical rules of evidence shall not apply; provided,
however, that a lessee of a vehicle cited in the violation notice likewise
shall be provided an opportunity for a hearing of the same kind afforded the
registered owner. The hearings shall be recorded, and the person conducting the
hearing on behalf of the traffic compliance administrator shall be empowered to
administer oaths and to secure by subpoena both the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of relevant books and papers. Persons appearing at
a hearing under this article may be represented by counsel at their expense.
The ordinance may also provide for internal administrative review following the
decision of the hearing officer. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.414. Limited Affirmative Defenses For Automated Traffic Law Violations.
The hearing officer shall only consider in defense of a violation:
   A.   The motor vehicle or registration plates of the motor vehicle were
stolen before the violation occurred and not under the control of or in the
possession of the owner at the time of the violation. To demonstrate that the
motor vehicle or the registration plates were stolen before the violation
occurred and were not under the control or possession of the owner at the time
of the violation, the owner must submit proof that a report concerning the
stolen motor vehicle or registration plates was filed with a law enforcement
agency in a timely manner.
   B.   The driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection when the
light was red either: 1) in order to yield the right of way to an emergency
vehicle or 2) as part of a funeral procession for an automated red light
violation.
   C.   The driver of the motor vehicle received a uniform traffic citation
from a police officer at the time of the violation for the same offense. (Ord.
O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.415. Final Determinations Of Violation Liability.
A final determination of violation liability shall occur following failure to
complete the required traffic education program or to pay the fine or penalty,
or both, after a hearing officer's determination of violation liability and the
exhaustion of or failure to exhaust any administrative review procedures
provided by ordinance. Where a person fails to appear at a hearing to contest
the alleged violation in the time and manner specified in a prior mailed
notice, the hearing officer's determination of violation liability shall become
final: a) upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination, or
b) upon expiration of the period for filing the petition without a filing
having been made. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.416. Notice Of Final Determination Of Parking, Standing, Compliance Or
Automated Traffic Law Violation.
This notice shall be sent following a final determination of parking, standing,
compliance, or automated traffic law violation liability and the conclusion of
review procedures taken under this article. The notice shall state that the
incomplete traffic education program or the unpaid fine or penalty, or both, is
a debt due and owing the municipality. The notice shall contain warnings that
failure to complete any required traffic education program or to pay any fine
or penalty due and owing the city, or both, within the time specified may
result in the city's filing of a petition in the circuit court of the 18th
judicial circuit to have the incomplete traffic education program or unpaid
fine or penalty, or both, rendered a judgment as provided by this article, or
may result in suspension of the person's driver's license for failure to
complete a traffic education program or to pay fines or penalties, or both, for
ten (10) or more parking, standing or compliance violations under section 6-
306.5 of the Illinois vehicle code or five (5) or more automated traffic law
violations under section 11-208.6 of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. O-10-021,
11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.417. Petition To Set Aside.
A petition to set aside a determination of parking, standing, compliance, or
automated traffic law violation liability that may be filed by a person owing
an unpaid fine or penalty. A petition to set aside a determination of liability
may also be filed by a person required to complete a traffic education program.
The petition shall be filed with and ruled upon by the traffic compliance
administrator. The grounds for the petition may be limited to: a) the person
not having been the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the date the
violation notice was issued, b) the person having already completed the
required traffic education program or paid the fine or penalty, or both, for
the violation in question, and c) excusable failure to appear at or request a
new date for a hearing. Any such petition shall be filed no more than twenty
one (21) days after a final determination of violation liability. After the
determination of parking, standing, compliance, or automated traffic law
violation liability has been set aside upon a showing of just cause, the
registered owner shall be provided with a hearing on the merits for that
violation. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.418. Fines And Penalties.
A violation of a parking, standing and compliance regulation shall be subject
to the applicable fines and penalties set forth in chapter 15 of this code,
provided that in no event shall a civil fine for such violations exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00). A violation of an automated red light regulation
shall be subject to a fine of not more or less than one hundred dollars
($100.00). A violation of an automated railroad crossing regulation shall be
subject to a fine of not more or less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
for the first violation and not more or less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for a second or subsequent violation. Upon a final determination of
violation of any vehicle regulation, the registered owner of the vehicle shall
have thirty (30) days to satisfy any applicable fine. In the event the
registered owner of the vehicle fails to timely and fully satisfy the
applicable fine, the registered owner of the vehicle shall be assessed an
additional one hundred dollars ($100.00). In addition to or in lieu of a fine,
the registered owner of the vehicle may be ordered to complete a required
traffic education program. In the event the registered owner of the vehicle
fails to timely complete a required traffic education program, the registered
owner of the vehicle shall be assessed an additional one hundred dollars
($100.00). A registered owner who is a holder of a valid commercial driver's
license is not required to complete a traffic education program. For purposes
of the required traffic education program only, a registered owner may submit
an affidavit to the hearing officer swearing that at the time of the alleged
violation, the vehicle was in the custody and control of another person. The
affidavit must identify the person in custody and control of the vehicle,
including the person's name and current address. The person in custody and
control of the vehicle at the time of the violation is required to complete the
required traffic education program. If the person in custody and control of the
vehicle at the time of the violation completes the required traffic education
program, the registered owner of the vehicle is not required to complete a
traffic education program. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.419. Administrative Review Law.
Judicial review of final determinations of parking, standing, compliance, or
automated traffic law violations and final administrative decisions issued
after hearings regarding vehicle immobilization and impoundment made under this
article shall be subject to the provisions of the administrative review law.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.420. Final Disposition.
Any fine, penalty, incomplete traffic education program, or part of any fine or
any penalty remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the failure to
exhaust, administrative remedies created under this article and the conclusion
of any judicial review procedures shall be a debt due and owing the city and,
as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law. Completion of any
required traffic education program and payment in full of any fine or penalty
resulting from a standing, parking, compliance, or automated traffic law
violation shall constitute a final disposition of that violation. (Ord. O-10-
021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.421. Judgment.
After the expiration of the period within which judicial review may be sought
for a final determination of parking, standing, compliance, or automated
traffic law violation, the city may commence a proceeding in the circuit court
of the 18th judicial circuit for purposes of obtaining a judgment on the final
determination of violation. Nothing in this article shall prevent the city from
consolidating multiple final determinations of parking, standing, compliance,
or automated traffic law violations against a person in a proceeding. Upon
commencement of the action, the city shall file a certified copy or record of
the final determination of parking, standing, compliance, or automated traffic
law violation, which shall be accompanied by a certification that recites facts
sufficient to show that the final determination of violation was issued in
accordance with this article and the Illinois vehicle code. Service of the
summons and a copy of the petition may be by any method provided by section 2-
203 of the code of civil procedure or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, provided that the total amount of fines and penalties for final
determinations of parking, standing, compliance, or automated traffic law
violations does not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). If
the court is satisfied that the final determination of parking, standing,
compliance, or automated traffic law violation was entered in accordance with
the requirements of this article and the Illinois vehicle code, and that the
registered owner or the lessee, as the case may be, had an opportunity for an
administrative hearing and for judicial review as provided in this article, the
court shall render judgment in favor of the city and against the registered
owner or the lessee for the amount indicated in the final determination of
parking, standing, compliance, or automated traffic law violation, plus costs.
The judgment shall have the same effect and may be enforced in the same manner
as other judgments for the recovery of money. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.422. Suspension Of Driver's License.
The city is authorized to request the suspension of a violator's driver's
license upon ten (10) or more unpaid parking, standing or compliance violations
or upon five (5) or more unpaid automated traffic law violations pursuant to
the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5, upon
notice and opportunity for an administrative hearing. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-
2010)
Sec. 18.423. Notice Of Impending Driver's License Suspension.
This notice shall be sent to the person liable for failure to complete a
required traffic education program or to pay any fine or penalty that remains
due and owing, or both, on ten (10) or more parking, standing or compliance
violations or five (5) or more unpaid automated traffic law violations. The
notice shall state that failure to complete a required traffic education
program or to pay the fine or penalty owing, or both, within forty five (45)
days of the notice's date will result in the city notifying the secretary of
state that the person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings
under section 6-306.5 of the Illinois vehicle code. The notice shall also state
that the person may obtain a photostatic copy of an original ticket imposing a
fine or penalty by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to the
municipality along with a request for the photostatic copy. The notice of
impending driver's license suspension shall be sent by first class United
States mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the secretary of
state or, if any notice to that address is returned as undeliverable, to the
last known address recorded in a United States post office approved database.
(Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.424. Certified Report Requesting Suspension Of Driver's License.
If a violator has failed to pay any fine or penalty that remains due and owing,
or both, on ten (10) or more parking, standing or compliance violations or five
(5) or more unpaid automated traffic law violations upon forty five (45) days'
notice, the city shall deliver to the secretary of state a certified report
requesting the suspension of a violator's driver's license. The report shall
contain the following:
   A.   The name, last known address as recorded with the secretary of state,
as provided by the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of lease, or as
recorded in a United States post office approved database if any notice sent
under section 11-208.3 of the Illinois vehicle code is returned as
undeliverable, and driver's license number of the person who failed to pay the
fine or penalty and the registration number of any vehicle known to be
registered to such person in this state; and
   B.   The name and address of the city; and
   C.   A statement that the city sent a notice of impending driver's license
suspension, to the person named in the report at the address recorded with the
secretary of state or at the last address known to the lessor of the cited
vehicle at the time of lease or, if any notice sent under this article is
returned as undeliverable, at the last known address recorded in a United
States post office approved database; the date on which such notice was sent;
and the address to which such notice was sent; and
   D.   A statement that the city has sent a copy of the certified report to
the violator; and
   E.   A statement that the city provides by ordinance a procedure for the
violator to challenge the accuracy of the certified report. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-
4-2010)
Sec. 18.425. Certified Report; Hearing.
Upon the timely request of a registered owner within ten (10) days of his or
her receipt of the certified report requesting a driver's license suspension,
the city shall provide the registered owner a hearing on his or her challenge
to the accuracy of the certified report. The grounds for such a challenge,
shall be limited to: a) the person not having been the owner or lessee of the
vehicle or vehicles receiving ten (10) or more standing, parking, or compliance
violation notices or five (5) or more automated traffic law violations on the
date or dates such notices were issued; and b) the person having already paid
the fine or penalty for the ten (10) or more standing, parking, or compliance
violations or five (5) or more automated traffic law violations indicated on
the certified report. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.426. Certified Report; Error.
The city shall notify the secretary of state, in a form prescribed by the
secretary, whenever a person named in the certified report has paid the
previously reported fine or penalty or whenever the municipality determines
that the original report was in error. A certified copy of such notification
shall also be given upon request and at no additional charge to the person
named therein. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 18.427. Vehicle Immobilization.
The city is authorized to immobilize any eligible vehicle upon the public way
by presence of a restraint in a manner to prevent operation of the vehicle to
enforce the provisions of this article.
   A.   A vehicle shall be eligible for immobilization when the registered
owner of the vehicle has accumulated any combination of three (3) or more
incomplete traffic education programs or unpaid final determinations of
parking, standing, compliance, or automated traffic law violations.
   B.   At least twenty one (21) days prior to immobilization, the city shall
send to the registered owner of an eligible vehicle a notice of impending
vehicle immobilization and shall provide the registered owner a right to a
hearing to challenge the validity of the notice by disproving liability for the
incomplete traffic education programs or unpaid final determinations of
parking, standing, compliance, or automated traffic law violation liability, or
both, listed on the notice.
   C.   The registered owner shall have the right to a prompt hearing after a
vehicle has been immobilized or subsequently towed without the completion of
the required traffic education program or payment of the outstanding fines and
penalties on parking, standing, compliance, or automated traffic law
violations, or both, for which final determinations have been issued. An order
issued after the hearing is a final administrative decision within the meaning
of section 3-101 of the code of civil procedure.
   D.   The city shall send a postimmobilization and posttowing notice advising
the registered owner of the vehicle of the right to a hearing to challenge the
validity of the impoundment. (Ord. O-10-021, 11-4-2010)
CHAPTER 19
SPECIAL EVENTS
ARTICLE I
SPECIAL EVENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
19.101. Title
19.102. Purpose
19.103. Policy
19.104. Intent
19.105. Definitions
19.106. Permit Required
19.107. Procedures For Application And Approval
19.108. Fee Schedule
19.109. Issuance Or Denial Of Permit
19.110. Revocation Of Permit
19.111. Records Kept
19.112. Revisions To Applications For Permit
19.113. Penalty
Sec. 19.101. Title.
This article shall be known, cited, and referred to as the CITY OF WOOD DALE
SPECIAL EVENTS CODE. (Ord. O-16-039, 12-15-2016)
Sec. 19.102. Purpose.
It is the purpose of this article to provide for the issuance of special event
permits to regulate events on the public streets and public property of the
city in the interest of public health, safety and welfare; and to provide for
fees, charges and procedures required to administer the permit process.
In addition, this article provides a process for residents to apply to host
block parties and private parties that may need a temporary relief from the
noise control ordinances. (Ord. O-16-039, 12-15-2016)
Sec. 19.103. Policy.
It is the policy of the city, as implemented through this article and any
procedures adopted hereunder, to recognize the substantial community benefits
that result from special events. These events provide cultural enrichment,
promote economic vitality, and enhance community identity and pride. They also
may provide opportunities for family activities and funding for our community's
nonprofit agencies. Partnerships between the city, event sponsors and the
community are valuable in ensuring successful events. Therefore, the city will
strive to accommodate special events when possible.
The city recognizes that events can be difficult to implement successfully and
that the city requirements may represent a portion of an event's costs. When
setting fees and conditions for events, the city will be sensitive to the
impacts on the cost of the event while balancing the city's obligation to
protect public health and safety. It is the goal of the city to have successful
special events that enrich and enliven the community.
The city also recognizes that certain events are site specific; therefore
flexibility is important when determining event locations. (Ord. O-16-039, 12-
15-2016)
Sec. 19.104. Intent.
It is the specific intent of this article and any procedures adopted hereunder
to place the obligation of complying with the requirements of this article upon
the applicant or sponsor, and no provision hereof is intended to impose any
duty upon the city or any of its officers, employees or agents. Nothing
contained in this article or any procedures adopted hereunder is intended to be
or shall be construed to create or form the basis for liability on the part of
the city, or its officers, employees or agents, for any injury or damage
resulting from the failure of the applicant or sponsor to comply with the
provisions hereof. (Ord. O-16-039, 12-15-2016)
Sec. 19.105. Definitions.
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall mean:
ANNUAL EVENT: An event recurring each year at approximately the same date which
has previously complied with the permit requirements of this article.
APPLICANT: The authorized agent of the sponsor who completes the application
and acts as primary contact for the special event.
BLOCK PARTY: A party for all the residents of a block or neighborhood,
typically held on a closed off city street.
CLOSED ROUTE: A route along or across a public right of way on which
nonemergency vehicle traffic is not permitted to proceed for the entire
duration of a special event.
EVENT PARTICIPANTS: A person in attendance at an event, including spectators,
vendors, event staff, city staff, and all others present for the purpose of the
event.
FAIR/CARNIVAL: A stationary event, held for one or more days.
NOISE CONTROL PERMIT: A form to be filled out by residents for private parties
or block parties that provides temporary reprieve from noise control
ordinances.
NOISE CONTROL PERMIT: An application that may be used to apply for exemptions
to the noise control ordinance for a specific event.
NOTICE OF INTENT: A notice to stage a special event submitted by an applicant
which informs the city of a proposed event.
PARADE: Any organized group marching or in procession, whether on foot, animal,
or vehicle.
PROCEDURE: A procedure adopted by the city staff, to implement this article, or
to carry out other responsibilities as may be required by this article or by
other codes, ordinances, or resolutions of the city or other agencies.
RACE/RUN: An organized event upon a public street, sidewalk, or trail in which
ten (10) or more persons participate by walking, running, riding a bicycle, or
operating a wheelchair.
ROLLING CLOSURE ROUTE: A street, sidewalk, trail, walkway, or other right of
way closure to accommodate an event, thereafter as the event passes, the right
of way is reopened for use by the general public.
SPECIAL EVENT: A sporting, cultural, business or other type of unique activity,
occurring for a limited or fixed duration (1 time or annual) and presented to a
live audience, that impacts the city of Wood Dale by involving the use of, or
having impact on public streets, sidewalks, walkways, or on other publicly
owned property which interferes with normal vehicular or pedestrian traffic and
requires the use of city services or property (owned, leased or controlled by
the city of Wood Dale). It could also involve an event that occurs on private
property but has a significant impact on public services.
SPONSOR: The person or group responsible for the special event to be held.
TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT/PARKING PLAN: A plan developed by the applicant/
sponsor to identify and mitigate traffic/parking impacts, conditions, and
proposed solutions associated with a special event. (Ord. O-16-039, 12-15-2016)
Sec. 19.106. Permit Required.
A special events permit must be obtained from the city in order to be approved
to host a special event. Events include, but are not limited to: races, fairs,
festivals, contests, carnivals, business promotional events, and other events
that may impact city services or property, or an event that occurs on private
property but has a significant impact on public services.
A block party/noise control permit must be obtained by a private party or group
wishing to close roads to host a block party, or by a private party hosting an
event at their residence that involves the use of a stereo, amplifier or live
band. (Ord. O-16-039, 12-15-2016)
Sec. 19.107. Procedures For Application And Approval.
   A.   Sponsors and applicants to host a special event must complete a "city
of Wood Dale special event permit application", which is included as an
appendix to the ordinance codified herein. The application will contain
information that is specific to this code, DuPage County health department, the
international building code as adopted by the city of Wood Dale, and any
applicable state or federal laws.
Completion of this application does not absolve the applicant from complying
with any local, county, state or federal laws or guidelines that are not
specifically outlined in the application. The application is intended to make
the applicant aware of the most common requirements that may be encountered in
hosting a special event and is subject to review and revision as laws or
ordinances are amended.
The following guidelines should be followed for the application:
      1.   A special events permit application must be submitted to the city by
the special event applicant/sponsor, listing location/route, date, and time of
the event. The application must be filed at least thirty (30) days prior to the
date of the proposed event to allow adequate review time, provided this
requirement shall not apply to a special event which is sponsored or
cosponsored by the city. A notice of intent for annual events must be submitted
by January 15 of the year in which the event is to be held and will be
processed within thirty (30) days. First time events will be encouraged to list
several options for location, route, date, and time.
      2.   City staff shall review the notice of intent and determine if the
event can be accommodated. Staff may meet with the applicant/sponsor to
prioritize locations and/or routes. The applicant is required to provide to
staff a complete package of information on the proposed event, including a
tentative site plan and activities involved with the event.
      3.   A notice of pending decision on first time or significantly changed
events must be mailed by the city to affected businesses/residents (to be
determined on a case by case basis by the staff) along with a request for
written comments or concerns.
      4.   City staff shall meet with the applicant/sponsor to discuss comments
received and possible conditions and fees that may apply to the event.
      5.   City staff shall make a decision on the application and set any
conditions and fees, in accordance with this article, and upon payment issue
the permit.
      6.   The applicant/sponsor must provide notification to the affected area
(to be determined on a case by case basis by the city staff) regarding approval
of the event, date(s), time(s), and location/route, to take place fifteen (15)
days prior to event.
   B.   A postevent evaluation may be conducted by the city staff, if
necessary. The evaluation may include a survey of affected residents/businesses
and a meeting with the applicant/sponsor and city staff.
   C.   In deciding whether to approve, approve with conditions, or deny a
permit, city staff shall determine whether:
      1.   The event, as proposed, can be shown to function safely;
      2.   The diversion of police resources to support the event will not deny
reasonable police protection to the city;
      3.   If substantial police, public works or other city staff will be
required to provide public safety for the event, the sponsors will be notified
of these potential costs and invoiced for the final cost to provide these
services;
      4.   The special event will not cause irreconcilable interference with
previously approved and/or scheduled construction, maintenance or other
activities;
      5.   The special event sponsor/applicant has provided an approved
transportation management and parking plan for the event;
      6.   The location/route meets the criteria established in the procedures.
(Ord. O-16-039, 12-15-2016)
Sec. 19.108. Fee Schedule.
   A.   Permit fees and charges are based on a flat fee schedule as specified
in the master fee schedule depending on the type of event and duration/
participation level.
   B.   Additional fees for permits may be required if tents, structures,
plumbing or electrical for the event must be inspected and will be charged
according to fees set forth in this Code.
   C.   If City resources are needed to provide notice of road closures,
detours, or other conditions, the applicant will be provided with an estimate
of the costs prior to issuance of the permit. Basic block parties and minor
road closures should not require additional charges.
   D.   An application fee as specified in the master fee schedule is required
when the applicant/sponsor files the application (commercial applications
only). Permit fees assessed by the above schedule are payable fourteen (14)
days prior to the event taking place after approval of the permit.
   E.   If it is determined that additional police or Public Works personnel
will be required to staff the event, the sponsor will provide a down payment of
fifty percent (50%) of the estimated fees fourteen (14) days prior to the
event, with the balance being due within thirty (30) days of receiving a final
invoice from the City.
   F.   If the event sponsor provides written notice to the City that they are
canceling the event at least fourteen (14) days prior to the event, the fee and
additional costs will be refunded minus a processing fee as specified in the
master fee schedule. Events canceled less than fourteen (14) days prior to the
event will not be eligible for a refund. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-19-2018)
Sec. 19.109. Issuance Or Denial Of Permit.
City staff will review the proposed application and distribute to all
potentially affected entities, including the Community Development Department,
Police Department, Public Works, and Wood Dale Fire Protection District. Each
of these entities may require additional information from the applicant/sponsor
and the City will not issue a permit until all entities have approved the
event.
Once the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the permit shall be issued
and shall state the expiration date thereof, which shall not exceed the listed
dates of the event.
If all requirements of this article have not been met by the applicant, City
staff may deny the issuance of a special events permit and shall notify the
applicant in writing. The applicant may request further discussion with City
staff to determine a change in any conditions or logistics that may allow for
the permit to be issued. (Ord. O-16-039, 12-15-2016)
Sec. 19.110. Revocation Of Permit.
Any special events permit issued in accordance with this article may be revoked
by authorized City personnel if the holder of the special events permit is
convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this article, or has made
a false material statement in the application, or otherwise becomes
disqualified for the issuance of a special events permit under the terms of
this article.
In the event of such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the
authorized City personnel and copied to the other affected entities, and given
to the holder of the special events permit in person or by certified U.S. mail
addressed to his or her address set forth in the application.
Upon the issuance of such notice, the special events permit shall become null
and void and shall be surrendered to authorized City personnel. (Ord. O-16-039,
12-15-2016)
Sec. 19.111. Records Kept.
City personnel shall cause an accurate record of each application received,
including those special events permits that are approved and denied, along with
all supporting documentation.
The authorized City staff shall cause to be kept in their office an accurate
record of every application received and acted upon, together with all other
information and data pertaining to the application or event. (Ord. O-16-039,
12-15-2016)
Sec. 19.112. Revisions To Applications For Permit.
City staff may periodically make changes to the special events permit
application package and block party/noise control permit form as changes occur
to any local ordinances, Building Codes, or State or Federal laws. (Ord. O-16-
039, 12-15-2016)
Sec. 19.113. Penalty.
Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this article shall be
punished by a fine as specified in the master fee schedule. (Ord. O-18-024, 7-
19-2018)
 
