CITY CODE
of
WOODSTOCK, ILLINOIS
1986
Code current through:
Ord. 25-O-32, passed May 20, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Woodstock, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 25-O-32, passed May 20, 2025.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 17-O-01
   An ordinance re-adopting and amending the city code of Woodstock, Illinois
pursuant to the home rule powers of the city of Woodstock, McHenry County,
Illinois
   WHEREAS, on January 10, 2017, the Illinois secretary of state's office
certified that as of September 9, 2016 the city of Woodstock, McHenry County,
Illinois (the "city") had a population of 25,528 residents as the result of a
special census and became an automatic home rule unit by population; and
   WHEREAS, the city of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois, is a home rule
municipality as contemplated under article VII, section 6, of the constitution
of the state of Illinois, and the passage of this ordinance constitutes an
exercise of the city's home rule powers and functions as granted in the
constitution of the state of Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, on May 20, 1986 the city had adopted the city code of Woodstock,
Illinois - 1986 as the new and original comprehensive ordinance (except for
those items expressly saved from repeal), and since that time that city code
has been further amended; and
   WHEREAS, it is now the desire of the city of Woodstock to amend and re-adopt
the city code of the city of Woodstock (the "Woodstock city code") pursuant to
its home rule powers.
   BE IT ORDAINED by the CITY COUNCIL of the CITY OF WOODSTOCK, McHenry County,
Illinois, as follows:
   SECTION 1: That the following provisions of the Woodstock city code, with
the exception of section
7.4.1 (adopting unified development regulations) which shall remain unchanged
and enforceable as it currently exists, are hereby re-adopted in their entirety
pursuant to the city's home rule authority:
   Title 1:   Administration
   Title 2:   Boards And Commissions
   Title 3:   Business And License Regulations
   Title 4:   Public Health And Safety
   Title 5:   Motor Vehicles And Traffic
   Title 6:   Public Ways And Property
   Title 7:   Building Regulations
   SECTION 2: That title 1, Administration, chapter 1, of the city of Woodstock
municipal code, shall be amended to add chapter 1.1.6, Home Rule Authority,
which shall read as follows:
Chapter 1.1.6 HOME RULE AUTHORITY
      a.    On January 10, 2017, the Illinois secretary of state certified that
the city of Woodstock became an automatic home rule unit by population as of
September 9, 2016.
      b.    Effective January 17, 2017, the Woodstock city code and any
amendments thereto constitute an exercise of the city's home rule powers and
functions as granted under article VII, section 6, of the constitution of the
state of Illinois.
   SECTION 3: If any section, paragraph, subdivision, clause, sentence or
provision of this ordinance shall be adjudged by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, invalidate
or nullify the remainder thereof, which remainder shall remain and continue in
full force and effect.
   SECTION 4: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are
hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
   SECTION 5: This ordinance shall be known as ordinance 17-O-01 and shall be
in full force and effect upon its passage, approval and publication in pamphlet
form (which publication is hereby authorized) as provided by law.
Ayes:
Nays:
Abstentions:
Absentees:
         APPROVED:
         /s/   
         Mayor Brian Sager, Ph.D.
(SEAL)
ATTEST: /s/       
      City Clerk Cindy Smiley
Passed:    January 17, 2017   
Approved:    
Published:    
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL MUNICIPAL CODE
SECTION:
1.1.1: Title
1.1.2: Acceptance
1.1.3: Amendments
1.1.4: Code Alteration
1.1.5: Jurisdiction
1.1.6: Home Rule Authority
1.1.1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Woodstock. This code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the WOODSTOCK CITY CODE, and it is
hereby published by authority of the council and shall be kept up to date as
provided in section
1.1.3 of this chapter under the direction of the city attorney, acting for the
said city council. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein
shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (1986 Code)
1.1.2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1.2.1 of this title. (1986 Code)
1.1.3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. (1986 Code)
1.1.4: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council.
(1986 Code)
1.1.5: JURISDICTION:
Unless otherwise provided in this code, this code applies to acts performed
within the corporate limits of the city. Provisions of this code also apply to
acts performed outside the corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed by
law, where the law confers power on the city to regulate such particular acts
outside the corporate limits. (1963 Code, §1.07)
1.1.6: HOME RULE AUTHORITY:
   A.   On January 10, 2017, the Illinois secretary of state certified that the
city of Woodstock became an automatic home rule unit by population as of
September 9, 2016.
   B.   Effective January 17, 2017, this code and any amendments thereto
constitute an exercise of the city's home rule powers and functions as granted
under article VII, section 6, of the constitution of the state of Illinois.
(Ord. 17-O-01, 1-17-2017)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1.2.1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1.2.2: Public Utility Ordinances
1.2.3: Court Proceedings
1.2.4: Severability Clause
1.2.1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
and which are in conflict with the provisions of this code are hereby repealed.
(1986 Code)
1.2.2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1986 Code)
1.2.3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable, if
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein
repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the adoption
of this code. (1986 Code)
1.2.4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1986 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1.3.1: Construction Of Words
1.3.2: Definitions, General
1.3.3: Catchlines
1.3.1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code by words
importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters,
parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be
deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be
applied to any section of this code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context may be
repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been changed
in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend the
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1986 Code)
1.3.2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
   CITY: The city of Woodstock, county of McHenry, state of Illinois.
   CITY CODE OR CODE: The Woodstock city code, as amended from time to time.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The city council members of the city.
   ELECTOR: Person who is a resident of the city and is registered to vote.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
city of Woodstock".
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of business,
profession or occupation.
   ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL CODE: 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year has been imposed 1 .
   NEGLIGENT: The word "negligent", as well as "neglect", "negligence" and
"negligently" imports a want of such attention to the nature of probable
consequences of the act or omission as a reasonably prudent man ordinarily
bestows in acting in his own concern.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
   OFFICIAL TIME: Central Standard Time is the official time within the city
for the transaction of all business, except that between two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. on the last Sunday in April and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the last Sunday
of October, Central Daylight Saving Time is the official time.
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   ORDINANCES: The ordinances of the city of Woodstock and all amendments
thereto, including this code.
   OWNER: Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of such
building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right of
interest therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, is understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities direct
to the consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, squares,
places and sidewalks or private ways, squares, places or sidewalks used by the
general public.
   TENANT: Applied to a building or land, includes any person who occupies the
whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
   WHOLESALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, is understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons
who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Includes printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark.
   YEAR, FISCAL: The fiscal year of the city begins on May 1 of each year and
ends on April 30 of the year following.
   YEAR, MUNICIPAL: The municipal year of the city begins on May 1 of each
year. (1963 Code, §§20.04, 20.05, 20.06; amd. 1986 Code; Ord. 09-0-24, 4-21-
2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 730 ILCS 5/5-1-14.
1.3.3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1986 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1.4.1: General Penalty
1.4.2: Applicability Of General Penalty
1.4.3: Responsibility For Acts
1.4.4: Liability Of Officers
1.4.5: Municipal Bond Fees
1.4.1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this code, or any rule or regulation
adopted or issued in pursuance thereof, or any provision of any code,
regulation, or ordinance adopted herein by reference shall, unless another
penalty is specifically provided for, upon conviction, be fined in an amount
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) per offense. Said amount shall be in addition to the city's cost of
prosecution, enforcement, and adjudication, which cost shall be a minimum of
fifty dollars ($50.00), and shall include the cost of reasonable attorney fees.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
such violation occurs or continues to occur.
If any person receiving a citation for violating any provision of this code or
any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof, or any provision
of any code, regulation, or ordinance adopted herein by reference, fails to
pay, settle or adjust the fine specified herein, then adjudication procedures
may be initiated in accordance with chapter 7, article L of this title or with
a court of competent jurisdiction, and such processes as necessary shall
commence. (Ord. 09-O-24, 4-21-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
1.4.2: APPLICABILITY OF GENERAL PENALTY:
The penalty provided by section
1.4.1 of this chapter applies to the amendment of any section of this code or a
code adopted herein by reference, whether or not such penalty is reenacted in
the amendatory ordinance. (1963 Code, §1.09)
1.4.3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ACTS:
Each person concerned in the commission of an act prohibited by this code,
whether he directly commits the act, or prosecutes, counsels, aids or abets in
its commission, may be prosecuted and, on conviction, is punishable as if he
had directly committed such act. (1963 Code, §1.08)
1.4.4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
The failure of an officer or employee of the city to perform an official duty
imposed by this code shall not subject such officer or employee to the penalty
imposed for violation of this code unless a penalty is specifically provided in
the section creating the duty. (1963 Code, §1.09)
1.4.5: MUNICIPAL BOND FEES:
The city may impose a fee up to twenty dollars ($20.00) for bail processing
against any person arrested for violating a bailable municipal ordinance or a
state or federal law. (Ord. 11-O-63, 11-15-2011)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1.5.1: Mayor
1.5.2: City Council
1.5.3: Meetings Of The Council
1.5.4: Procedures And Rules At Meetings
1.5.5: Proclamations And Resolutions
1.5.6: Policy Regarding City Employees
1.5.7: Remote Attendance At Public Meetings
1.5.8: Public Comment At Meetings
1.5.1: MAYOR:
   A.   Election: The Mayor shall be elected at large for a four (4) year term
and shall serve until his successor is elected and qualified as provided by
law.
   B.   Term: The term of the Mayor shall commence at the first regular meeting
of the Council in the month of May following the election. When the election
results are not available by that meeting, the term of office shall begin at
the first regular or special meeting following receipt of the election results.
   C.   Oath: The Mayor shall take the oath as required by the Illinois
Compiled Statutes.
   D.   Bond: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Mayor shall
execute a bond in such an amount as set forth in section
1.6.3 of this title, with such sureties as may be required by the City Council,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his office.
   E.   Compensation 1 : The salary of the Mayor shall be one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) a month, to be paid monthly.
   F.   Deputy Mayor And Assistant Deputy Mayor: Upon nomination by the Mayor
and with the advice and consent of the City Council, the Council shall appoint
one (1) member to serve as Deputy Mayor and one (1) member to serve as
Assistant Deputy Mayor. During a temporary absence or disability of the Mayor,
or as otherwise directed by the Mayor, the Deputy Mayor, and in succession the
Assistant Deputy Mayor, shall possess the powers of Mayor as provided by law.
During any State of Emergency, as authorized under Section
1.5.1 H.6. of this Chapter, in the event the Mayor, Deputy Mayor and Assistant
Deputy Mayor are unable to act in that capacity, the powers and duties of the
Mayor shall be assumed by the next most long-serving Council-member, as
measured in total time as a Council-member, who is available to act.
   G.   Acting Mayor: In the event of a vacancy in the Office of Mayor, the
City Council may, pursuant to the Illinois Compiled Statutes, appoint one (1)
of its members to serve as Acting Mayor.
   H.   Duties:
      1.   General: The Mayor shall be the legislative head of the City and
shall be recognized as such by the courts for purpose of serving civil process
and by the Governor for all legal purposes.
      2.   Liquor Commissioner: The Mayor shall serve as Liquor Commissioner
for the City and shall have the power to enforce all laws relating to the
regulating and the sale of alcoholic liquor as provided by the Illinois
Compiled Statutes. The Deputy Mayor shall serve as Deputy Liquor Commissioner
and, during a temporary absence or disability of the Liquor Commissioner, or as
otherwise directed by the Liquor Commissioner, the Deputy Liquor Commissioner
shall have the power to enforce all laws relating to the regulating and the
sale of alcoholic liquor as provided by the Illinois Compiled Statutes. Until
May 1, 2021, the Mayor shall have the authority to authorize public consumption
of alcohol within the City, or at specific locations within the City, subject
to such reasonable rules and regulations as the Mayor shall consider to be in
the public's interest, notwithstanding any restrictions of the City's Code to
the contrary (including those of sections
3.3.14,
4.9.9 and
6.2.6.(P), but specifically excluding the City's Train Depot unless otherwise
permitted by the Union Pacific Railroad).
      3.   Appointment Of Treasurer: The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the
advice and consent of the City Council, the Treasurer for the City.
      4.   Appointment Of Boards, Commissions And Committees: The Mayor shall
appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council, all members to
boards, commissions, and committees authorized by either the Illinois Compiled
Statutes or established by the Mayor and City Council of the City which shall
include the following:
         Board of Building Construction
         Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
         Board of Library Trustees
         Cultural and Social Awareness Commission
         Economic Development Commission
         Electrical Commission
         Environmental Commission
         Historic Preservation Commission
         Old Courthouse and Sheriff's House Advisory Commission
         Opera House Advisory Commission
         Parks and Recreation Commission
         Plan Commission
         Police Pension Board
         Transportation Commission
         Zoning Board of Appeals
      5.   Formal Occasions: The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the City
on formal occasions and receptions; but in his absence or inability to attend
any such function, the City Council may select any other City official to so
act.
   6.   
      a.   A "State of Emergency" is defined to be: (a) Any "natural disaster"
or "man-made calamity", including but not limited to flood, conflagration,
cyclone, tornado, earthquake, riot or explosion within the corporate limits of
the Village resulting in the death or injury of persons or the destruction of
property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to protect
the public health, safety and welfare; or (b) Any public health threat when a
state of emergency, disaster proclamation or other comparable designation has
been declared at either the State of Illinois or McHenry County level, and in
the event of either (a) or (b) the City Council cannot safely or practically
meet in a timely manner consistent with the Illinois Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS
120/1 et. seq.) to authorize City action.
      b.   Declaration of Emergency. Whenever an emergency as defined in
Section
1.5.1.H.6.a. exists, the Mayor shall sign, under oath, a statement finding that
an emergency, as defined in that Section, exists and setting forth facts to
substantiate such findings including a description of the nature of the
emergency. This statement shall be filed with the City Clerk as soon as
practicable.
      c.   Additional Power and Duties of the Mayor During a State of
Emergency.
         (1)   Additional Powers of the Mayor: After a State of Emergency as
defined in Section
1.5.1.H.6.a. has been declared by the Mayor, the Mayor shall have the power to:
            (a)   Authorize agreements for purchases and contracts that impose
a financial obligation on the City that would otherwise be required to be
authorized by the City Council pursuant to Chapter
1.6A.5.2 (Purchasing and Contracting Authority); and
            (b)   Authorize payment of City funds for expenses and liabilities
of the City that would otherwise first have to be approved by the City Council
pursuant to Chapter
1.6A.5.3 (Payment Authority).
            (c)   In the event the State of Emergency extends into a new fiscal
year and the City Council has not approved a new budget for that fiscal year,
the Mayor shall be authorized to approve spending by the City in the absence of
such an approved budget.
            (d)   Take such other actions as the Mayor deems reasonably
necessary to respond to the emergency in the interest of public health, safety
and welfare.
         (2)   Duty to Report: Any action taken by the Mayor pursuant to this
Section shall be reported to the City Council as soon as reasonably practical.
         d.   Effectiveness. The determination that a State of Emergency exists
may be terminated by the sooner of either (1) by a signed statement by the
Mayor, submitted to the City Clerk, that the need for the State of Emergency
has ended; or (2) upon a vote by the City Council to terminate the declaration.
During the duration of any State of Emergency declaration, the agenda of the
City Council for all regular and special meetings shall include consideration
of the continuation or termination of the State of Emergency as an agenda item
for action.
      e.   Nothing in this Section
1.5.1.H.6 is intended to remove the power of the City Council to act as
provided by law when meeting in regular or special session.
      f.   Notification. When reasonably practical and safe, upon issuing the
proclamation herein authorized, the Mayor shall cause the declaration to be
posted in a prominent place at City Hall and upon the City's web site.
      g.   Violations. Any person violating the provisions of this section or
of the executive orders issued pursuant hereto shall be guilty of an offense
against the City and shall be subject to the General Penalty provisions of the
City Code at Chapter
1.4.1. (1986 Code; amd. Ord. 2024, 12-16-1986; Ord. 2493, 8-2-1994; Ord. 2514,
10-18-1994; Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996; Ord. 01-O-41, 11-6-2001; Ord. 05-O-93, 9-20-
2005; Ord. 05-O-94, 9-20-2005; Ord. 06-O-75, 10-3-2006; Ord. 07-O-40, 5-1-2007;
Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008; Ord. 11-O-17, 2-15-2011; Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012; Ord.
17-O-46, 5-16-2017; Ord. 20-O-20, 3-18-2020; Ord. 20-O-37, 5-20-2020; Ord. 23-
O-20, 4-4-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1.6.2A of this title.
1.5.2: CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Membership And Term Of Office: The City Council shall consist of six
(6) Council members and the Mayor. Council members shall be elected at large
and shall serve four (4) year terms as provided by law.
   B.   Terms: The terms of the members of the Council shall commence at the
first regular meeting of the Council in the month of May following their
election. When the election results are not available by that meeting, the term
of office shall begin at the first regular or special meeting following receipt
of the election results.
   C.   Oath: Each member of the City Council shall take such oath as may be
required by the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   D.   Bond: Before entering upon the duties of his office, each Councilman
shall execute a bond in such an amount as set forth in section
1.6.3 of this title, with such sureties as may be required by the City Council,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his office.
   E.   Compensation 1 : The salary of each Council member shall be five
hundred dollars ($500.00) a month, to be paid monthly.
   F.   Duties And General Powers: The Council shall be the legislative
division of the City government and shall perform such duties and have such
powers as authorized by law. It shall be the duty of the City Council to pass
all ordinances for the City. In carrying out its duties the City Council may
provide for the creation of any departments necessary to effectively govern the
City. In addition, it shall be the duty of the City Council to appoint a City
Manager for an indefinite term, as prescribed by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes. The City Manager may be removed from office by a majority vote of the
City Council. (Ord. 1148, 3-4-1975; amd. 1986 Code; Ord. 06-O-75, 10-3-2006;
Ord. 17-O-46, 5-16-2017; Ord. 23-O-20, 4-4-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1.6.2A of this title.
1.5.3: MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the Council shall be held in
the Council Room or at such other place within the City as the Council may from
time to time direct by general motion, ordinance or resolution, or as stated in
the motion to adjourn each meeting, on the first and third Tuesdays in each
month, except for the months of January and July in which there will be only
one (1) regular meeting on the third Tuesday, at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
Whenever a regular meeting of the Council falls on a legal holiday, such
meeting shall not be held on such day but shall be held on the following day.
With the exception of executive sessions, all meetings of the City Council
shall be open to the public and provisions of the Open Public Meetings Act will
be followed.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the City Council may be called by
the Mayor or four (4) Council members. All special meetings shall be held in a
manner consistent with the Illinois Open Meetings Act. (Ord. 17-O-46, 5-16-
2017)
   C.   Notice Of Public Meetings: Notice of all public meetings of the City
Council, appointed boards or other committees shall be given in compliance with
the Open Meetings Act 1  of the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (1986 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
1.5.4: PROCEDURES AND RULES AT MEETINGS:
   A.   Officer: The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of the Council at all
regular or special meetings and when the Council meets as a Committee of the
Whole. (1986 Code)
   B.   Quorum And Voting Requirements: The majority of the elected members of
the City Council shall constitute a quorum thereof. All binding actions of the
City Council shall require an affirmative vote of the majority of the Mayor
plus City Council members then holding office unless different voting
requirements are required for home rule units under State law. (Ord. 17-O-02,
1-17-2017)
   C.   Order Of Business: The order of business at meetings of the City
Council shall be as follows: (Ord. 15-O-20, 4-7-2015)
      Call to order
      Floor discussion
      Public presentations
      City Council presentations
      Consent agenda/calendar
      Presentation of minutes of the previous meeting
      Presentation of warrants for payment of bills against the City
      Presentation of minutes of boards and commissions
      Presentation of departmental reports
      Presentation of City Manager's report and items for action
      Consideration of items for action removed from the consent calendar
      Items for discussion
      Executive session as appropriate
      Adjournment (Ord. 17-O-46, 5-16-2017)
   D.   Parliamentary Procedure: The rules of parliamentary practice comprised
in the latest published edition of "Robert's Rules of Order Revised" shall
govern all general or special meetings of the City Council to the extent they
are not inconsistent with the rules or procedures specified in ordinances of
the City or in the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (1986 Code)
   E.   Rescinding Action: No vote or action of the Council shall be rescinded
at any special meeting unless there are present at such special meeting as many
members of the Council as were present at the meeting when such vote or action
was taken, as provided by law. (1963 Code, §2.08)
   F.   Addressing Meetings: No person other than the Mayor or a member of the
Council shall address that body at any special or regular meeting of the
Council except upon consent of a majority of the members present. (1963 Code,
§2.10)
   G.   Disturbing Meetings: Any person who shall disturb any regular or
special meeting of the City Council, or who shall disturb any meeting of any
board or commission of the City, or who shall behave in a disorderly manner at
any such meeting, shall be subject to the fines and penalties set forth in
section
1.4.1 of this title. If any person receiving a citation for such behavior fails
to pay, settle or adjust the fine specified herein, then adjudication
procedures may be initiated in accordance with chapter 7, article L of this
title or with a court of competent jurisdiction and such processes as necessary
shall commence. (Ord. 09-O-24, 4-21-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
   H.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of order of the Council, other than
those prescribed by law, may be suspended at any time by the consent of a
majority of the members present at any meeting.
   I.   Removal Of Member: A member of the City Council may be removed from
office by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the elected members of the Council;
however, a member of the Council may not be removed a second time for the same
offense. Grounds for removal shall include abuse of official power, failure to
attend at least one-half (1/2) the regular Council meetings in any given year,
conviction of a disqualifying crime and abandonment of office or removal of
residence from the City. (1986 Code)
1.5.5: PROCLAMATIONS AND RESOLUTIONS:
A proclamation may be made by the Mayor or submitted to the Council for
consideration and acceptance through unanimous consent. Any resolution shall be
reduced to writing and submitted to the Council before being voted upon for
adoption. (Ord. 17-O-46, 5-16-2017)
1.5.6: POLICY REGARDING CITY EMPLOYEES:
No member of the Council shall direct or request the appointment, employment or
removal of any person from his office by the City Manager or by any of his
subordinates, or in any manner attempt to dictate the appointment or removal of
officers and employees in the administrative service of the City. Except for
the purpose of inquiry, Council members shall deal with the administrative
service solely through the City Manager and no Council member shall give orders
to any subordinates of the City Manager, either publicly or privately. (1986
Code)
1.5.7: REMOTE ATTENDANCE AT PUBLIC MEETINGS:
   A.   Members of the Council, as well as any boards and commissions of the
City, may attend a meeting without being physically present if the following
conditions are met:
      1.   In addition to holding meetings pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq., City Council (or board or commission)
meetings shall be subject to the following rules:
         a.   A quorum of the City Council (or board or commission) shall be
physically present at the location of an open or closed meeting.
         b.   Provided a quorum is physically present, a member may be allowed
to attend the meeting by audio or video conferencing.
         c.   Any member who wishes to be considered present at a meeting via
audio or video conference may make such a request to the City Council (or board
or commission) by notifying the Clerk three (3) days prior to the meeting,
unless advance notice is impractical, that the member cannot physically attend
the meeting for one (1) of the following reasons:
            (1)   Personal illness or disability;
            (2)   Employment purposes or City business;
            (3)   A family or other emergency; or
            (4)   Unexpected childcare obligations.
         d.   An affirmative vote by a majority of the City Council (or board
or commission) physically present may allow a member to attend a meeting as
provided herein.
         e.   The Clerk shall record in the minutes of every meeting the
members physically present, absent and present by audio or video conference.
      2.   The nonpresent Council (or board or commission) member shall provide
a telephone number where he or she can be reached, and must be available when
contacted prior to the start of the meeting. The telephone of the nonpresent
member must provide a clear connection, and be in a location with relatively no
background noise. If other electronic means of communication are utilized, it
must provide a clear audio connection with relatively no background noise.
Members may not participate by facsimile, electronic mail or other means
without audio connection.
      3.   A member shall be considered present for purposes of voting if the
member is present by electronic means. If the City Council is voting on an
ordinance or resolution authorizing, approving or providing for the issuance of
bonds (as that term is defined in the Local Government Debt Reform Act 1 ), or
the Council/board/commission is conducting any hearing required by law, then
any member attending the meeting by audio or video conference shall be
considered absent for purposes of voting.
      4.   The Mayor or temporary presiding officer (or Chair) must announce,
prior to roll call, that a member is participating by speakerphone or other
electronic means.
      5.   The nonpresent member must answer the roll call and, at that time,
state that he or she is unable to attend in person and is willing and able to
participate by speakerphone or other electronic means.
      6.   The nonpresent member must be able to hear all comments made by
other Council (or board or commission) members and from the audience if public
comments are expected.
      7.   All members and the public must be able to hear the comments of the
nonpresent member.
      8.   All votes shall be taken by roll call.
      9.   The meeting shall comply with the Open Meetings Act.
      10.   Any meeting must be chaired by a person who is physically present
at the meeting.
      11.   Participation via telephonic attendance shall be limited to a
maximum of three (3) meetings per member per fiscal year. In addition, no more
than one (1) member at a time may attend a meeting via telephone. In the event
more than one (1) member wishes to attend the same meeting via telephone, the
first member to inform the City Manager shall be allowed to participate
telephonically. In its discretion, the Council (or board or commission) may
grant exceptions, by motion, to the limitations set forth in this subsection
A11.
   B.   Remote Attendance Without A Quorum Physically Present In The Event Of A
Disaster Declaration. Any open or closed meeting of any City body subject to
the requirements of the Illinois Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120), including the
City Council or any of its boards, commissions, or committees, may be conducted
by audio or video conference, without the physical presence of a quorum of the
members, so long as the requirements of the Illinois Open Meetings Act (as may
be amended) for such meetings have been met. (Ord. 04-O-58, 6-15-2004; amd.
Ord. 06-O-78, 10-17-2006; Ord. 07-O-74, 8-21-2007; Ord. 21-O-13, 2-15-2021;
Ord. 23-O-57, 12-5-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 350/1 et seq.
1.5.8: PUBLIC COMMENT AT MEETINGS:
Members of the public are invited and permitted to speak at any public, open
meeting of the City Council and any other commission, committee, board or other
public entity created by or subject to the City's jurisdiction, ordinances and
control, subject to the following rules:
   A.   Individuals wishing to be heard on an item that is not on the agenda
may be recognized by the Mayor or Chairperson during the public comment portion
of each meeting which will generally be held as one (1) of the initial items of
business on the agenda but may, by a majority vote of the members of the public
body present at a particular meeting, be moved to a different point on the
agenda for that meeting.
   B.   Individuals wishing to be heard on an item that is included in the
agenda will be provided an opportunity to speak by the Mayor or Chairperson
during the consideration of that item.
   C.   Public comment may be restricted to no more than three (3) minutes for
each individual speaker. The Mayor or Chairperson may permit additional comment
in his or her discretion taking into account the number of persons wishing to
be heard on a matter and the amount of business requiring attention.
   D.   Members of the public may be asked to avoid repeating comments that
have already been made, although they may be given the opportunity to indicate
that they agree or disagree with an earlier speaker.
   E.   Members of the public will be required to step forward to the podium
and to identify themselves for the record. Members may be asked but are not
required to provide an address for the record.
   F.   The Mayor or Chairperson shall require that order and decorum be
maintained at public meetings. This includes prohibiting outbursts from the
public or other behavior that is threatening, disorderly or disruptive to the
public business. The Mayor or Chairperson may eject from a public meeting any
person who, in the Mayor or Chairperson's sole opinion, disrupts the order and
decorum of the meeting or otherwise violates the rules of this section.
   G.   Public comment shall be restricted to the portions of meetings which
are required to be open to the public under the Open Meetings Act. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to allow public access to or public comment at
closed sessions or any other meeting of public officials which is not required
to be open to the public under the Open Meetings Act.
   H.   To the extent necessary, each public body subject to the City's
jurisdiction, ordinances and control, shall adopt the public comment rules of
this section at the first public meeting of each public body following the
adoption of this section. (Ord. 15-O-20, 4-7-2015)
CHAPTER 6
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1.6.1: Elections
1.6.2: Salaries And Compensation Of Certain Officers
1.6.3: Bond Requirements
1.6.4: Code Of Ethics
1.6.1: ELECTIONS:
All Municipal or City elections for officials, City bond issues and all such
other purposes as permitted or required by the laws of the State shall be held
pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, and at such time
or times as prescribed by the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
The precinct and polling places for all Municipal or City elections shall be
designated from time to time in accordance with the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
(1986 Code)
1.6.2: SALARIES AND COMPENSATION OF CERTAIN OFFICERS 1 :
   A.   Elected Officials: The following annual salaries are hereby
established:
 
Mayor (see also subsection            $12,000.00
1.5.1E of this title)
Council members (see also subsection  6,000.00
1.5.2E of this title)
 
Said salaries for the Mayor and Council members shall be paid in monthly
installments at the end of each month of service. (Ord. 2475, 5-3-1994; amd.
Ord. 2678, 5-6-1997; Ord. 98-O-56, 10-20-1998)
   B.   Appointed Officials:
      1.   City Manager 2 : The compensation of the City Manager shall be fixed
annually at the commencement of the fiscal year. The City Manager's total
compensation shall include salary plus an amount equal to the City's
contribution to the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, exclusive of any
payments for social security purposes, to be paid to the International City
Management Association Retirement Corporation, as deferred compensation. (Ord.
1048, 10-23-1973)
      2.   City Clerk: The compensation for the City Clerk is set forth in
section
1.6B.4 of this chapter. (Ord. 2581, 8-15-1995)
   C.   Administrative Appointments:
      1.   No person shall receive or be entitled to the salary or compensation
established for more than one position, regardless of any additional duties
that may be performed, in the absence of specific provisions therefor by the
Council.
      2.   Any salary or compensation of any appointed official or employee
whose term of office is not set and made definite by law may be changed at any
time by ordinance. (1986 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Salaries effective as follows: Mayor - May 2001; Council members - new
  elected Council members in May 1999 and May 2001.
2 2. See section
  1.6A.3 of this chapter.
1.6.3: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
All elected or appointed officials of the City of Woodstock, whether covered or
not by any crime policy, are not required to carry any surety bond. The City
shall maintain reasonable insurance coverage to protect the City against
potential financial loss as a result of a financial crime by an employee.
Provided such reasonable insurance coverage is in place, the City shall not be
required to purchase any surety bonds for City employees to protect against
potential loss. (Ord. 17-O-17, 2-21-2017)
1.6.4: CODE OF ETHICS:
   A.   Declaration Of Policy: The proper operation of democratic government
requires that officers and employees be independent, impartial and responsible
to the people; that government decisions and policy be made in proper channels
of the governmental structure; that public office not be used for personal
gain; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government.
In recognition of these goals, a Code of Ethics for all City officers and
employees is adopted. The purpose of this Code of Ethics is to establish
guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for all City officers and employees
by setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best
interest of the City and by directing disclosure by such officers and employees
of private financial or other interests in matters affecting City life.
   B.   Code Of Ethics: The requirements set forth herein shall constitute a
Code of Ethics establishing reasonable standards and guidelines for the ethical
conduct of officers and employees of the City.
   C.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms shall be
given these definitions:
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any Federal, State, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: 1) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action;
2) relating to collective bargaining; or 3) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
   CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the Election Code 1 .
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in
section 3 of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act 2 .
   COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
section, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer or employee is
on premises under the control of the employer and any other time when the
officer or employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of
location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4
of the Election Code 3 .
   EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the City of Woodstock, whether on a full time
or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the
direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how
the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER: The City of Woodstock.
   GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   INTERGOVERNMENTAL GIFT: Any gift given to an officer or employee of the City
from a member or employee of the legislative branch of the government of the
State of Illinois, a Judge or employee of the judicial branch of the government
of the State of Illinois, an officer or employee of the executive branch of the
government of the State of Illinois, an officer or employee of a unit of local
government, home rule unit, or school district, or an officer or employee of
any other governmental entity.
   INTRAGOVERNMENTAL GIFT: Any gift given to an officer or employee of the City
from another officer or employee of the City.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: 1)
compensation for employment, 2) service credit towards pension benefits, and 3)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: 1) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, 2) relating to collective bargaining, or
3) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a County Clerk under
section 9-3 of the Election Code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a County Clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
      1.   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
      2.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
      3.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
      4.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
      5.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
      6.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
      7.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
      8.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
      9.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
      10.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
      11.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
      12.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question.
      13.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
      14.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
      15.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
      1.   Is seeking official action: a) by an officer or b) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      2.   Does business or seeks to do business: a) with the officer or b)
with an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that
employee;
      3.   Conducts activities regulated: a) by the officer or b) by an
employee, or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
      4.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
   RELATIVE: Those people related to the officer or employee as father, mother,
son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt, great uncle, first
cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, grandfather, grandmother, grandson,
granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter,
stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, and including the father,
mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the officer's or employee's spouse and
the officer's or employee's fiance or fiancee.
   D.   Prohibited Political Activities:
      1.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the City in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
      2.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: a) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, b) as a condition of employment,
or c) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
      3.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate
in any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or
employee being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the
form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment
or otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional
compensation or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in
any prohibited political activity.
      4.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible
for an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties,
or activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary
basis which are not prohibited by this section.
      5.   No person either: a) in a position that is subject to recognized
merit principles of public employment; or b) in a position the salary for which
is paid in whole or in part by Federal funds and that is subject to the Federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club.
   E.   Gift Ban:
      1.   Solicitation Or Acceptance Of Gifts: Except as permitted by this
section, no officer or employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member
living with any officer or employee (collectively referred to herein as
"recipients"), shall intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any
"prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law
or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift
that violates this section.
      2.   Exceptions: Subsection E1 of this section is not applicable to the
following:
         a.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
         b.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
         c.   Any: 1) contribution that is lawfully made under the Election
Code; or 2) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
         d.   Educational materials and missions.
         e.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
         f.   A gift from a relative.
         g.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: 1) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; 2)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and 3) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
         h.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00)
per person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or 2) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
         i.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
         j.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts.
         k.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
         l.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection E2 is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.
      3.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or
an immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not
violate this section if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to
return a gift from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an
amount equal to its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income
taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now
or hereafter amended, renumbered or succeeded.
   F.   Ethics Advisor:
      1.   The Director of Human Resources shall serve as an ethics advisor to
officers and employees.
      2.   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the City concerning the interpretation of and compliance with the
provisions of this section and State ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall
perform such other duties as may be delegated by the City Council.
   G.   Ethics Commission:
      1.   Commission Created: There is hereby created a commission to be known
as the Ethics Commission of the City of Woodstock. The commission shall be
comprised of three (3) members: a) the City Manager (or the Assistant City
Manager if a substitute is needed); b) the Chief of Police (or the Assistant
City Manager if a substitute is needed); and c) a third member to be appointed
by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
      2.   Powers And Duties: The commission shall have the following powers
and duties:
         a.   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of
its duties and the exercise of its powers.
         b.   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with this section and refer
violations of subsections D and E of this section to the City Attorney for
prosecution. The commission shall, however, act only upon the receipt of a
written complaint alleging a violation of this section and not upon its own
prerogative unless a complaint arises before any of the Commissioners in the
course of their other official or employment duties.
         c.   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this section.
         d.   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the
production of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the
obligation of all officers and employees of the City to cooperate with the
commission during the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to
cooperate with requests by the commission shall constitute grounds for
discipline or discharge.
         e.   To prepare and publish such manuals and guides as the commission
deems appropriate to facilitate compliance with the terms of this section.
         f.   The powers and duties of the commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this section.
      3.   Complaints:
         a.   Complaints alleging a violation of this section shall be filed
with the Ethics Commission.
         b.   Within three (3) business days after the receipt of a complaint,
the commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice
to the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy
of the complaint. The commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three (3) business days after receipt by the commission. The notices to
the respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time,
and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
         c.   Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this section, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the Open Meetings Act. Within seven (7) business days
after receiving the complaint, the commission shall issue notice to the
complainant and the respondent of the commission's ruling on the sufficiency of
the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed. If the complaint
is deemed not sufficient to allege a violation or if there is no determination
of probable cause, then the commission shall send by certified mail, return
receipt requested, a notice to the parties of the decision to dismiss the
complaint, and that notice shall be made public.
         d.   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
subsection E of this section and there is a determination of probable cause,
then the commission's notice to the parties shall include a hearing date
scheduled within four (4) weeks after the complaint's receipt. Alternatively,
the commission may elect to notify in writing the City Attorney to prosecute
such actions and request that the complaint be adjudicated judicially and the
commission's notice to the parties shall indicate this fact.
         e.   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
subsection D of this section, then the commission shall notify in writing the
City Attorney to prosecute such actions and shall transmit to the City Attorney
the complaint and all additional documents in the custody of the commission
concerning the alleged violation. The commission's notice to the parties shall
indicate these facts.
         f.   If the commission elects to hear a case brought under subsection
E of this section, on the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight (48)
hours' public notice of the meeting, the commission shall conduct a hearing on
the complaint and shall allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony
and evidence. The hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the
Open Meetings Act.
         g.   Within thirty (30) days after the date the hearing or any
recessed hearing of a case brought under subsection E of this section is
concluded, the commission shall either: 1) dismiss the complaint; or 2) issue a
recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the City Manager
to discipline the officer or employee or to impose a fine upon the violator, or
both. The particular findings in the case, any recommendation for discipline,
and any fine imposed shall be a matter of public information.
         h.   If the hearing on a case brought under subsection E of this
section was closed to the public, the respondent may file a written demand for
a public hearing on the complaint within seven (7) business days after the
issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a fine, or both.
The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the recommendation or
fine. Within fourteen (14) days after receiving the demand, the commission
shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least forty eight (48)
hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the opportunity to
present testimony and evidence. Within seven (7) days thereafter, the
commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the alleged violator
and to the City Manager to discipline the officer or employee or impose a fine
upon the violator, or both.
         i.   If a complaint is filed during the sixty (60) days preceding the
date of any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the commission
shall render its decision as required under subsection G3h of this section
within seven (7) days after the complaint is filed, and during the seven (7)
days preceding that election, the commission shall render such decision before
the date of that election, if possible.
         j.   A complaint alleging the violation of this section must be filed
within one year after the alleged violation.
         k.   In the event a member of the commission is the subject of an
alleged violation of this section or otherwise would create an impropriety by
participating in any matter brought before the commission, such Commissioner
shall immediately recuse himself or herself from the investigation of such
alleged violation, and shall take no part in the final action of the commission
regarding such alleged violation. A substitute Commissioner shall be appointed
pursuant to the terms of subsection G1 of this section for purposes relating to
this matter only. If any of those substitutes would also be disqualified from
serving under this section, the City Council shall appoint substitute
Commissioners and all time limits provided in this section shall be calculated
beginning the first business day after such appointments become official.
   H.   Penalties:
      1.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of subsection D of
this section may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution
other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three hundred sixty
four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
      2.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of subsection E of
this section is subject to a fine in an amount on not less than one thousand
one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      3.   The commission may levy an administrative fine of up to five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who violates this section or
who intentionally makes a false, frivolous, or bad faith allegation.
      4.   In addition to any administrative fines imposed pursuant to
subsection H3 of this section, any person who intentionally makes a false
report alleging a violation of any provision of this section to the Ethics
Commission, the State's Attorney or any other law enforcement official may be
punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a
penitentiary for a period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days,
and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00).
      5.   A violation of subsection D of this section shall be prosecuted as a
criminal offense by the City Attorney by filing in the Circuit Court an
information, or sworn complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall
be under and conform to the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall
require the establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable
doubt.
      6.   A violation of subsection E of this section may be prosecuted as a
quasi-criminal offense by an attorney for the City, or by the Ethics
Commission, through the designated administrative procedure.
      7.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of this section is subject to discipline or discharge.
   I.   Distribution Of Code Of Ethics: The City Clerk shall cause a copy of
this section to be distributed to every officer and employee of the City within
thirty (30) days after enactment of this section. Each officer and employee
elected, appointed or engaged hereafter shall be furnished a copy before
entering upon the duties of his or her office or employment. (Ord. 04-0-48, 5-
4-2004; amd. Ord. 17-O-102, 12-19-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 3. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
ARTICLE A. CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1.6A.1: Appointment
1.6A.2: Acting City Manager
1.6A.3: Salary
1.6A.4: Duties Of The City Manager
1.6A.5: Duties Regarding Municipal Finances
1.6A.5.1: Duty To Oversee Financial Transactions And Contracts
1.6A.5.2: Purchasing And Contracting Authority
1.6A.5.3: Disposal Of Surplus Personal Property
1.6A.5.4: Payment Authority
1.6A.5.5: Appropriation and Levies
1.6A.5.6: Accounts
1.6A.6: Reports And Documents
1.6A.1: APPOINTMENT:
The City Manager shall be appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term
as provided by law1. He/she shall be appointed without regard to his/her
political beliefs and need not be a resident of the City when appointed. The
City Manager may at any time be removed from office by a majority vote of the
members of the Council. (1963 Code, §4.01)
1.6A.2: ACTING CITY MANAGER:
If the City Manager is absent from the City or incapacitated from performing
the duties of the position for an extended or indefinite period of time, the
Council may designate another employee of the City to act as City Manager
during such absence or incapacity.
The City Manager may designate an assistant or assistants to act in his/her
capacity during temporary absences from the City. (1963 Code, §4.15; 1986 Code)
1.6A.3: SALARY 1 :
The City Manager shall receive an annual salary as determined from time to time
by the Council, to be paid in bi-weekly installments 2 . (1963 Code, §4.16)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/5-3-7.
2 2. See subsection
  1.6.2B of this Title.
1.6A.4: DUTIES OF THE CITY MANAGER:
   A.   General Duties:
      1.   The City Manager shall have and exercise all powers and duties
assigned to him/her by law and such other authority as may be granted by the
Council. He/she is charged with the enforcement of all laws and ordinances
within the City insofar as their enforcement is within the powers of the City.
      2.   The City Manager shall attend all meetings of the Council, shall
keep the Council informed as to the affairs of the City, and shall recommend to
the Council such actions as may be necessary or expedient for the welfare of
the City. The City Manager shall be entitled to notice of all meetings of the
Council. (1963 Code, §4.02)
   B.   Employees:
      1.   Appointment and Removal of Employees.
         a.   The City Manager shall supervise and direct, appoint and remove
all employees and officers of the City as have been provided for by the
Council, except for those under the jurisdiction of the Board of Police
Commissioners.
         b.   The City Manager may delegate this authority to another employee
or officer of the City.
         c.   The City Manager, or their designee, rather than the Board of
Police Commissioners, will be responsible for overseeing the hiring of
Certified Police Officer Entry candidates to the Police Department (which shall
mean applicants with at least two (2) years previous full-time experience as a
police officer) in coordination with the City’s Department of Human Resources
and the Chief of Police.
      2.   Human Resource Management:
         a.   The City Manager, or their designee, shall be responsible for
establishing City personnel policies, including but not limited to those
governing vacation, sick leave and other benefit policies of the City.
         b.   At a minimum, the City Manager shall ensure that all employees
receive no less than 1 hour of paid leave time, including paid sick leave or
paid leave, for every 80 hours worked.
         c.   Any employee assigned to any department or division may be
required to perform work in any other department or division as requested by
the City Manager.
   D.   Inventories, Property: The City Manager shall keep a current inventory
showing all real personal property of the City and its location and shall be
responsible for the care and custody of all such property including equipment,
buildings, parks and all other City property, which is not by law assigned to
some other officer or body for care and control. (1963 Code, §4.09)
   E.   Other Duties: The City Manager shall also:
      1.   Perform such duties in connection with the administration of the
licensing and control of the sale of alcoholic liquor within the City as may
from time to time be delegated to him/her by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
      2.   Issue all non-liquor licenses and permits required by the City Code
and those for use of any City property or rights of way (unless otherwise
provided for by law or City Code) and impose such conditions as the City
Manager deems appropriate for the protection of the health, safety and welfare
of the City and its residents. Regarding any licensed or permitted activity on
public ways or property, the City Manager also shall have the authority to
order temporary street and sidewalk closures and parking limitations (subject
to posting of appropriate signage), permit temporary erection of tents or
outdoor seating areas in a manner consistent with public safety, and to take
such other steps or authorize temporary, short-term waivers from non-zoning
City Code provisions as may be necessary to safely and appropriately facilitate
such activity within the City. The City Manager shall report regularly to the
City Council on activities authorized pursuant to this Section.
      3.   Appoint an assistant or assistants whose number shall be authorized
by the City Council.
      4.   Maintain an office in the City Hall and spend such time in the
performance of his duties as may be required by the Council.
      5.   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by article 5 of the
Illinois Municipal Code or by ordinance or resolution of the Council. (1963
Code, §4.14; amd. Ord. 788A, 9-17-1968; Ord. 821, 5-20-1969; Ord. 19-O-83, 10-
15-2019; Ord. 21-O-21, 4-6-2021; Ord. 23-O-58, 12-5-2023)
1.6A.5: DUTIES REGARDING MUNICIPAL FINANCES:
1.6A.5.1: DUTY TO OVERSEE FINAN-CIAL TRANSACTIONS AND CONTRACTS:
   A.   The City Manager shall oversee all financial transactions to which the
City may be a party and shall ensure that all such transactions are undertaken
in a manner consistent with all applicable laws.
   B.   The City Manager shall ensure that all terms of any contracts to which
the City is a party are fully performed by all parties thereto.
   C.   The City Manager shall have the authority to take such action as is
within the power of the City to ensure these duties and obligations are
performed. This authority shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   The authority to direct the City Attorney to undertake appropriate
legal action to enforce the City's rights; and
      2.   The authority to execute documents associated with contracts,
projects, and transactions previously approved by the City Council. This
includes, but is not limited to, authority to execute deeds, easements or other
documents necessary to consummate previously approved real estate transactions
or to facilitate Council-approved projects, such as road improvements, and
water and sewer projects. (Ord. 19-O-86, 11-5-2019; amd. Ord. 20-O-47, 6-17-
2020)
1.6A.5.2: PURCHASING AND CONTRACTING AUTHORITY:
   A.   Council Contract Approval Required:
      1.   All agreements for purchases and all contracts which impose a
financial obligation on the City must first be authorized by the City Council
except as provided by this section 5.2.
      2.   The City Manager may sign on behalf of the City any contract
authorized by the City Council, except where otherwise directed by the City
Council.
   B.   Exceptions: Unless otherwise prohibited for Home Rule municipalities or
by other law, the City Manager (or the City Manager’s designee, which authority
must be in writing for transactions of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000)
or more) may contract for or otherwise procure any supplies, material, rights,
equipment or services for the City (and may execute any associated documents)
and may enter into legal settlements, without prior City Council approval,
provided that the following terms are met:
      1.   Authority Not To Exceed $50,000: No transactions authorized under
this section may exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) in total value
(except in case of emergency as described in this section below).
      2.   Transactions Must Be Within Budget Limits: In the reasonable opinion
of the City Manager, the funds for any transaction under this section must be
reasonably available from the funds already approved by the City Council in its
annual budget ordinance.
      3.   Emergency: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, in
case of accident or other circumstances creating an emergency necessitating any
expenditure in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), the City Manager
may, without the prior consent of the Council, award contracts and make
purchases for the purpose of repairing damages caused by an accident or meeting
the public emergency, but shall promptly notify the City Council of such
emergency and the necessity of such action, together with a description of such
expenditures. In the case of emergency action under this provision, the
requirement that any action be dependent on the existence of previously
budgeted and available funds shall not apply.
      4.   Limited Authority To Amend Existing Agreements: notwithstanding any
other provision of this section, regarding contracts, agreements or purchases
previously authorized by the City Council or previously approved by the City
Manager (or the City Manager’s designee), the City Manager (or the City
Manager’s designee) may approve and execute amendments or changes to any such
authorized contracts, agreements or purchases provided that:
         a.   Any such amendment shall not increase the total contract,
agreement, or purchase price in excess of twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) or more or the time of completion by a total of one hundred eighty
(180) days or more. Any amounts more than this must be submitted to the City
Council and must comply with the requirements of 720 ILCS 5/33E-9 regarding
change orders. A series of change orders in excess of twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) must also be submitted to the City Council and must comply
with 720 ILCS 5/33E-9.
         b.   No such amendments shall violate any provisions of Illinois law
governing public contracts as contained in the Illinois Criminal Code at 720
ILCS 5/Art. 33E.
      5.   City-Owned Real Estate And Property: Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this section, unless otherwise directed by the City Council, the
City Manger shall have the authority to enter into and to amend agreements for
the use of all or part of any City-owned real estate or property provided:
         a.   That such agreement is for a period of twelve (12) months or
less;
         b.   That the City Manager finds that the agreement is on terms and
conditions that are reasonable under the circumstances, advance the public
interest of the City, and are not in violation of any state law or covenant
governing the real estate or property; and
         c.   That, prior to executing any such agreement, the City Manager
first shall report to the City Council about the potential agreement and shall
provide a reasonable opportunity for any Council member to object and to
request that the agreement first be considered by the City Council.
      6.   Employee Benefit Agreements. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Section, because of the short turn-around time-frames associated with the
provision and operation of the City’s health and life insurance agreements and
other employee benefit-related agreements, the City Manager (or the Manager’s
designee) is authorized to approve the annual renewal of those agreements and
any changes made to such agreements throughout a plan-year, regardless of total
value, provided that:
         a.   Such agreements are consistent with reasonable budgetary
practices and budgetary expectations of the City; and
         b.   That a summary of the overall annual agreements or plan documents
are reported to the City Council within fourteen (14) days of their acceptance
by the City Manager (or the Manager’s designee).
      7.   Duty To Report: Unless previously reported to the Council, the City
Manager (or the City Manager’s designee) shall regularly report to the Council
any action taken under the authority of this section. Except as otherwise
required, a report of a payment made under this section may be contained in the
regular warrant reports provided to the Council, which shall satisfy this
reporting requirement.
   C.   Duties Regarding Comparative Pricing And Competitive Bidding:
      1.   If, in the judgement of the City Manager (or the City Manager’s
designee), it is appropriate under the circumstances, the City shall obtain
reasonable comparative prices for any transactions made under this section that
area in excess of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
      2.   The City Council, pursuant to its home rule authority, waives the
statutory requirements of 65 ILCS 5/8-9-1, including those related to public
bidding for public improvements in excess of twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) when, in the opinion of the City Manager (or the City Manager’s
designee), alternative means of obtaining reasonable pricing are appropriate:
      3.   When the administration proposes contracts to the City Council for
public works projects in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) that
have not been obtained through competitive bidding, they shall provide the
basis for such recommendation in any communication to the City Council that
accompanies the request for approval of such contracts.
      4.   The City Manager (or the City Manager’s designee) is authorized to
reject any and all bids solicited by a sealed bid process, when, in the opinion
of the City Manager, such a rejection is appropriate, provided that the City
Manager (or the City Manager’s designee) reports such a rejection to the City
Council.
      5.   The City Council pursuant to its home rule authority, waives the
statutory requirements of 50 ILCS 510/0.01 et. seq. (the Local Government
Professional Services Selection Act), as may be amended, in the selection of
professional services covered by that Act.
(Ord. 19-O-86, 11-5-2019; amd. Ord. 20-O-36, 5-20-2020; Ord. 20-O-47, 6-17-
2020; Ord. 23-O-32, 6-6-2023; Ord. 25-O-26, 4-15-2025)
1.6A.5.3: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Personal property less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in value.
Whenever the City owns any personal property which is determined by the City
Manager (or designee) to be no longer necessary or useful to, or for the best
interest of the City and having an original value ofless than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), the City Manager (or designee), at their discretion, may
authorize the disposal of said property, in accordance with the following
conditions and procedures without any additional action by the City Council:
      1.   The City Manager (or designee) shall make a written determination
that the property is no longer needed by the City and shall set forth reasons
therefore.
      2.   The City Manager (or designee) may direct the disposal of such
property in the manner that best supports City finances and/or operations. This
may include but not be limited to, soliciting proposals for the purchase of
such property, selling it at public auction (including through online
websites), scrapping the property, donating the property, or authorizing a
trade of the property for the purchase of other property.
      3.   Disposal or sale of the property hereunder shall not be made to an
officer or employee of the City or to a person related by blood or marriage to
an officer or employee of the City, including any items sold through sealed bid
or at public auction.
      4.   The City Manager shall ensure that a written report of all such
actions shall be presented to the City Council on at least a semi-annual basis
for any individual item with an original or current value over five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
   B.   Personal property between one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) in value. Whenever the City owns any personal
property which is determined by the City Manager (or designee) to be no longer
necessary or useful to, or for the best interest of the City, and the City
Manager reasonably determines that said property originally had a value of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) to fifty thousand ($50,000.00), the City Manager
(or designee) may authorize the disposal of such personal property in
accordance with the following conditions and procedures:
      1.   The City Manager ( or designee) shall make a written determination
that the property is no longer needed by the City and shall set forth the
reasons therefore.
      2.   The City Manager (or designee) may direct the disposal of such
property in the manner that best supports City finances and/or operations. This
may include but not be limited to, soliciting proposals for the purchase of
such property, selling it at public auction (including through online
websites), scrapping the property, donating the property, or authorizing a
trade of it for the purchase of other property.
      3.   In the event the City Manager (or designee) concludes that it is in
the best interests of the City operations to scrap or donate any property with
an original value of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) to fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00), the City Manager may only authorize such action following
reasonable notice to the City Council of such intent and the reason therefore
and must provide the opportunity for any member of the Council to object to
such action. In the event of such an objection, the City Manager shall submit
the scrap or donation proposal to the City Council for a vote before such
action can be undertaken.
      4.   Disposal or sale of the property hereunder shall not be made to an
officer or employee of the City or to a person related by blood or marriage to
an officer or employee of the City, including any items sold through sealed bid
or at public auction.
      5.   The City Manager shall ensure that a written report of all such
actions shall be presented to the City Council on at least a semi-annual basis.
   C.   Personal property over fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) in value or
items having title. Whenever the City owns:
      1.   Any personal property which is determined by the City Manager (or
designee) to be no longer necessary or useful to, or for the best interest of
the City, and the City Manager reasonably determines that said property either
originally had a value of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or more or has an
estimated resale value of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or more; or
      2.   An item of personal property having a title (i.e., vehicle), then
such item may only be disposed in accordance with City Council action.
      3.   Disposal or sale of the property hereunder shall not be made to an
officer or employee of the City or to a person related by blood or marriage to
an officer or employee of the City, including any items sold through sealed bid
or at public auction.
   D.   Disposal of surplus real property. The provisions of this Chapter do
not apply to the disposal of surplus city-owned real estate, which is subject
to the provisions of
Chapter 9 of this Title 1.
(Ord. 24-O-33, 5-21-2024; amd. Ord. 25-O-05, 2-4-2025)
1.6A.5.4: PAYMENT AUTHORITY:
   A.   All payments of City funds for expenses and liabilities of the City
must first be approved by the City Council except as provided in this Section
1.6A.5.4 .
   B.   Administrative Payment Authority: The following, time-sensitive
payments may be authorized administratively by the City Manager (or by the City
Manager’s designee), absent prior Council consideration, provided that (i) in
the City Manager’s opinion, such payments are reasonably within the budgeted
amounts already approved by the Council in its annual budget ordinance; and
(ii) such budgeted funds are available; and (iii) all such payments are
included in the next reasonably possible warrant list (or similar report)
presented to the City Council for the City Council’s information (with the
exception of Health and Life Insurance Fund Expenditures pursuant to subsection
7 below).
      1.   Time Sensitive Payments Less Than $7,500: Payments that do not
exceed seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) for expenses that, in
the opinion of the City Manager, or his designee, cannot reasonably be delayed
until the next meeting of the City Council, which have been authorized and
budgeted. No expenses in excess of seven thousand five hundred dollars
($7,500.00) may be split into separate payments in order to fall within the
seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) cap amount. For instance, an
invoice for fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) for a single project cannot
be split into two seven thousand five hundred dollar ($7,500.00) invoices.
      2.   Payment For Utility Services: Payments for utility service such as
electric or natural gas that in the opinion of the City Manager or his designee
cannot reasonably be delayed until the next meeting of the City Council.
      3.   Payments To 1099 Contractors Employed As Recreational Or Pool
Instructors: Payments that do not exceed seven thousand five hundred dollars
($7,500.00) each to 1099 contractors employed as recreational or pool
instructors, which have been authorized and budgeted.
      4.   Third Party Event Sponsor Payments: Payment to a third party of
money received by the City on behalf of that third party, such as a producer’s
share of ticket sale funds collected by the Opera House.
      5.   Previously Authorized Payments: Payments previously authorized by
the City Council such as bond payments.
      6.   Authorized Payroll And Associated Expenses: Payroll and associated
expenses for positions previously approved by the City Council, as well as any
final payouts to departing City employees, if paid in a manner consistent with
City policy.
      7.   Health And Life Insurance Fund: Payment from the Health and Life
Insurance Fund, provided that any insurance administrator retained by the City
has recommended such payment. (Ord. 19-O-86, 11-5-2019)
1.6A.5.5: APPROPRIATION AND LEVIES:
   A.   The City Manager shall cause to be prepared each year the annual
appropriation ordinance or annual budget within the time required by law.
   B.   The City Manager shall cause to be prepared the annual tax levy
ordinance for passage and file a certified copy of it with the County Clerk
within the time required by law. (1963 Code, § 4.07; amd. 1986 Code)
   C.   The City Manager shall keep current accounts of the amounts
appropriated and budgeted and the amounts spent out of each budget account,
showing the unexpended balances at all times. (1963 Code, § 4.07) (Ord. 19-O-
86, 11-5-2019)
1.6A.5.6:   ACCOUNTS:
The City Manager shall keep current accounts showing at all times the fiscal
condition of the City, including the current and anticipated revenue of all
municipal funds and accounts; and shall supervise collection of all money due
the City. (1963 Code, § 4.08) (Ord. 19-O-86, 11-5-2019)
1.6A.6: REPORTS AND DOCUMENTS:
   A.   Reports And Publications: The city manager shall supervise the
publication of all notices, ordinances or other documents required by law to be
published, and shall prepare or cause to be prepared all reports which the city
or any city official is required by law to prepare. (1963 Code, §4.10)
   B.   Records And Certificates:
      1.   The city manager shall prepare and have custody of all municipal
records required by law to be kept by the city but not required to be kept by a
specific officer. Where the law makes it the duty of a specific officer to keep
or maintain records, the city manager shall make available to such officer all
necessary clerical assistance for the preparation of such records and shall
make available a place for the custody of such records. The city manager shall
make available to the city clerk stenographic or clerical assistance necessary
for the preparation of the journal of city council proceedings, the record of
ordinances and all other documents which by law the city clerk is required to
keep. He shall perform similar service for the city treasurer in the
maintenance of bond registers, and all other records or documents which by law
the city treasurer is required to keep or prepare.
      2.   Where the law requires or provides for certification of any records
or documents by any officer of the city, the city manager shall cause such
records or documents to be properly prepared and presented to such officer for
his signature. (1963 Code, §4.12)
   C.   Maps And Plats: The city manager shall cause to be kept a complete set
of maps and plats showing the location of all city utilities and other
municipal properties, all streets and other public places, and all lots or
parcels of land subdivided according to law. (1963 Code, §4.13)
ARTICLE B. CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1.6B.1: Appointment And Term
1.6B.2: Oath
1.6B.3: Bond
1.6B.4: Compensation
1.6B.5: Duties
1.6B.1: APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
   A.   The city clerk shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council for a four (4) year term and shall serve until his/
her successor is appointed and qualified as provided by law.
   B.   The term of the city clerk shall commence at the first regular or
special meeting of the city council in the month of May following the election
of the mayor. (Ord. 2581, 8-15-1995)
1.6B.2: OATH:
The city clerk shall take the oath as required by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes. (1986 Code)
1.6B.3: BOND:
Upon entering the duties of his/her office, the city clerk shall execute a bond
in the amount and with such sureties as may be required by the council
conditioned upon the faithful performance of his/her duties 1 . (1986 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1.6.3 of this chapter.
1.6B.4: COMPENSATION:
The salary of the city clerk shall be as determined by the city council from
time to time. (Ord. 01-0-13, 5-1-2001)
1.6B.5: DUTIES:
   A.   Records: The city clerk shall keep all papers belonging to the
municipality the custody and control of which are not given to other officers.
The clerk shall attend all meetings of the city council and keep a full record
of their proceedings in the journal. The record of those proceedings shall be
made available for public inspection within ten (10) days after being approved
or accepted by the city council as the official minutes of their proceedings.
   B.   Seal And Attest Documents: The city clerk shall seal and attest all
ordinances and resolutions of the city council, contracts of the city and all
licenses, permits and all other such documents that require this formality.
   C.   Corporate Seal: The city clerk shall be the custodian of the city's
seal and shall affix its impression on documents whenever required.
   D.   Warrants: The city clerk shall, upon the allowance of any account or
claim by the city council, sign a warrant therefor upon the city treasury
payable to the order of the claimant, which warrant, when signed by the mayor
and the city clerk, shall be paid by the city treasurer. He shall keep in a
suitable book an accurate list of all warrants drawn on the treasury, stating
the date, number and account thereof and the name of the person in whose favor
drawn.
   E.   (Rep. by Ord. 2581, 8-15-1995)
   F.   Record Of Ordinances: All ordinances passed by the city council shall
be deposited in the office of the city clerk and shall be duly recorded by the
clerk in the record book of ordinances and appropriately indexed by title or
subject.
The city clerk shall file and carefully preserve the originals of all
ordinances deposited in his office. He may correct errors in numbering of any
section of any ordinances, and insert the proper numbers and correct clerical
mistakes. The clerk shall make at the foot of the record of each ordinance
recorded a memorandum of the date of its passage and the date of its
publication, when required to be published, which record, memorandum or
certified copy thereof shall be deemed official evidence of the passage and
legal publication of such ordinances for all purposes whatsoever.
   G.   Records On File: The city clerk shall maintain on file three (3) copies
of all codes, regulations or public records adopted either in this code or
otherwise by the city council by reference and there kept available for public
use, inspection and examination.
   H.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties herein provided, the city
clerk shall perform such other duties and functions required by law or
ordinance or otherwise assigned by the mayor and city council.
   I.   Deputy Clerks:
      1.   It is hereby authorized that the positions of chief deputy clerk and
deputy clerk are hereby established. No person shall be eligible to be
appointed chief deputy clerk who is not, at the time of his or her appointment,
a member of the administrative staff of the city.
      2.   The salary of the chief deputy clerk and deputy clerk shall be as
determined by the city manager and included in the annual budget. (1986 Code;
amd. Ord. 2581, 8-15-1995; Ord. 05-0-77, 8-16-2005; Ord. 22-O-36, 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE C. CITY TREASURER
SECTION
1.6C.1: Appointment
1.6C.2: Bond Requirements
1.6C.3: General Duties
1.6C.4: Deposit Of Funds
1.6C.1: APPOINTMENT:
The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the
City Council. (Ord. 822, 5-20-69)
1.6C.2: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
The Treasurer shall give bond in an amount that is three (3) times the latest
Federal census population or any subsequent census figure used for Motor Fuel
Tax purposes, provided; however, that pursuant to Section
1.6.3 of this Municipal Code, this obligation may be fulfilled without
providing bond through the City's regular insurance provider coverage, if the
provider indicates reasonable insurance coverage is in place to fulfill this
equivalent coverage of the bond obligation. (1963 Code, §6.02; amd. Ord. 1639,
2-3-81; amd. Ord. 19-O-86, 11-5-2019)
1.6C.3: GENERAL DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The City Treasurer shall perform such duties as may be
prescribed by law or by ordinance. The Treasurer shall receive all money paid
into the City, either directly from the person paying it or from the hands of
such other officer as may receive it, and the Treasurer shall pay out money
only as authorized by the City Code regarding Payment Authority at Section
1.6A.5.3.
   B.   Accounts: The City Treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may
be required by the City Council. The City Treasurer is authorized by the City
Council to set up and transfer funds each fiscal year in a manner consistent
with the budget approved by the City Council. (1963 Code, §6.05)
   C.   Reports: The City Treasurer shall make monthly reports to the Council
showing the state of the finances of the City, and the amounts received and
spent during the month, which reports shall be filed, and he shall make an
annual report with the total amount of all receipts and expenditures of the
City and his transactions as City Treasurer during the preceding fiscal year.
(1963 Code, §6.06; amd. 1986 Code)
   D.   Register of Warrants: The City Treasurer shall keep a register of all
warrants, bonds or orders filed with him or paid by him, and all vouchers, as
required by law. (1963 Code, §6.07)(Ord. 1342, 2-1-77; amd. Ord. 19-O-86, 11-5-
2019)
1.6C.4: DEPOSIT OF FUNDS:
The City Treasurer shall be custodian of all City funds, and he shall keep the
City money separate and distinct from his own and shall not intermingle his own
money with it or make private or personal use of the City funds. Funds shall be
deposited in such depositories as may be designated by the Council from time to
time as provided by law. (Ord. 788A, 9-17-68; amd. 1986 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE A. DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
SECTION:
1.7A.1: Department Established
1.7A.2: Director of Finance
1.7A.3: Functions of the Director
1.7A.1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created the Department of Finance for the City consisting of
the Director of Finance and such other employees as may be provided for by the
Council. (1963 Code, §7.01)
1.7A.2: DIRECTOR OF FINANCE:
There is established the position of Director of Finance, who shall be
appointed by the City Manager, as provided by law. The Director of Finance
shall have control over all employees assigned to this Department, subject to
the supervision of the City Manager. (1963 Code, §7.02)
1.7A.3: FUNCTIONS OF THE DIRECTOR:
The Director of Finance shall:
   A.   Prepare and keep all financial records of the City.
   B.   Keep a current account of the amounts appropriated and budgeted each
year and the sums spent out of each budget account showing the unexpended
balance for each item.
   C.   Prepare each year the annual appropriation and tax levy ordinance in
time for enactment and filing as required by law, subject to the supervision of
the City Manager.
   D.   Keep accounts showing at all times the fiscal condition of the City,
including the current and anticipated revenues and expenses of all Municipal
funds and accounts.
   E.   Prepare and keep for the City Treasurer all registers and other records
required by law to be kept by the City Treasurer, and prepare for signature and
publication the annual City Treasurer's report and any other report required by
law. (1963 Code, §7.03; amd. Ord. 788A, 9-17-68; Ord. 821, 5-20-69; 1986 Code)
   F.   Pay all bills of the City in the following manner:
      1.   The Director of Finance shall prepare, no less than monthly, a
warrant for the payment of all sums due from the City, listing each item and
the account out of which it is payable (with the exception of authorized health
and life insurance fund payments).
      2.   Following authorization by the City Council (or by the City Manager
in the limited instances authorized by Section
1.6A.5), the City Treasurer shall make the payments identified on such warrant
list.
   G.   Receive and Collect Fees: The Director of Finance shall receive and
collect all license fees, permit fees, charges for Municipal utility services
rendered by the City, sums due the City on any contract, and all other sums due
the City are required to be paid to him by ordinances of the City.
The Director shall keep the City Manager informed as to all sums due in taxes,
accumulations in the motor fuel tax account to the credit of the City, and all
other revenues to which the City is entitled.
ARTICLE B. BUDGET DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1.7B.1: Department Established
1.7B.2: Budget Officer
1.7B.3: Functions of the Officer
1.7B.4: Compilation and Contents of Budget
1.7B.5: Capital Improvement, Repair or Replacement Fund
1.7B.6: Revision of Annual Budget
1.7B.7: Funds for Contingency Purposes
1.7B.8: Public Inspection, Notice of Hearing
1.7B.1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created the Budget Department for the City. It shall consist of
the Budget Officer, and such administrative assistants and other employees as
may be provided for by the City Council in the annual appropriation and budget
ordinances of the City. (Ord. 1784, 2-1-83)
1.7B.2: BUDGET OFFICER:
There is hereby established a position of Budget Officer, who shall be
appointed by the City Manager, as provided by law. The Budget Officer shall
have control over all employees assigned to this Department, subject to the
supervision of the City Manager. In the event of a vacancy in the office of
Budget Officer, the City Manager shall serve as ex-officio head of the
Department until the position is filled by separate appointment.
1.7B.3: FUNCTIONS OF THE OFFICER:
The Budget Officer shall have the following duties:
   A.   Encourage and establish the use of efficient planning, budgeting,
auditing, reporting and other fiscal management procedures in all City
departments, commissions and boards.
   B.   Compile an annual budget which shall contain estimates of revenues
available to the City for the fiscal year, together with recommended
expenditures for the City in all departments, commissions and boards. Such
estimates shall be presented in the manner provided by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes.
   C.   Examine all books and records of the City departments, commissions and
boards, which relate to monies received or paid out, or any amounts owed by or
to the City or any department, board or commission thereof.
   D.   To obtain such additional information from the City or any department,
board or commission of the City, as may be helpful in the preparation of the
budget. Such information shall be supplied in the form required by the Budget
Officer.
   E.   To establish such procedures as are necessary to insure compliance with
the budget by the City and all departments, boards and commissions of the City.
1.7B.4: COMPILATION AND CONTENTS OF BUDGET:
The Municipal Budget Officer shall compile a budget, such budget to contain
estimates of revenues available to the Municipality for the fiscal year for
which the budget is drafted together with recommended expenditures for the
Municipality and all the Municipality's departments, boards and commissions.
The budget shall contain actual or estimated revenues and expenditures for the
two (2) years immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the budget is
prepared. Each budget shall show the specific funds from which each anticipated
expenditure shall be made.
1.7B.5: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT, REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT FUND:
In the preparation by the Municipal Budget Officer of the annual budget, an
amount not to exceed one-half of one percent (.5%) of equalized assessed value
of properties subject to taxation by the Municipality may be accumulated in a
separate fund for the purpose or purposes of specific capital improvements,
repairs and/or replacements of specific types of Municipal equipment, or other
tangible property, both real and personal, to be designated as the "Capital
Improvement, Repair or Replacement Fund". Expenditures from the Capital
Improvement, Repair or Replacement Fund shall be budgeted in the fiscal year in
which the capital improvement, repair or replacement will occur. Upon the
completion or abandonment of any object for which the Capital Improvement,
Repair or Replacement Fund, or should any surplus monies remain after the
completion or abandonment of any object for which the Capital Improvement,
Repair or Replacement Fund was inaugurated, then such funds no longer necessary
for capital improvements, repairs or the replacement shall be transferred to
the General Corporate Fund of the Municipality on the first day of the fiscal
year following such abandonment, completion or discovery of surplus funds.
1.7B.6: REVISION OF ANNUAL BUDGET:
The following guidelines shall apply to changes or corrections to the City's
approved Budget:
   A.   The City Manager has authority to approve changes to line-items within
all funds, except the General Fund, provided the total revised expenditures do
not exceed the total fund's budget amount for that fund.
   B.   For the General Fund, the City Manager may approve line-item changes on
a department level basis only, provided the total revised expenditures do not
exceed the total budget amount for that department.
   C.   All other budget changes must be approved by a majority vote of the
City Council. No budget increases shall be authorized unless funds are
available for such a revision. (Ord. 20-O-62, 8-19-2020)
1.7B.7: FUNDS FOR CONTINGENCY PURPOSES:
The annual budget for the City may contain money set aside for contingency
purposes not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the total budget, less the amount
set aside for contingency purposes, which monies may be expended for
contingencies upon a majority vote of the City Council.
1.7B.8: PUBLIC INSPECTION, NOTICE OF HEARING:
The City Council shall make the tentative annual budget available for public
inspection by placing a suitable number of copies on file at the City Hall at
least ten (10) days prior to the passage of the annual budget. Not less than
one week after the tentative budget is placed on file and prior to final action
on the budget, the City Council shall hold at least one public hearing or
hearings on the tentative budget, after which hearing or hearings the tentative
budget may be further revised or passed without any further inspection, notice
or hearing. Notice of this hearing shall be given by publication in a newspaper
having a general circulation in the City at least one week prior to the time of
the hearing. (1986 Code)
ARTICLE C. LEGAL DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1.7C.1: Department Established
1.7C.2: Corporation Counsel
1.7C.3: Functions Of The Corporation Counsel, General Duties
1.7C.1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created the legal department of the city, consisting of the
corporation counsel and such other assistants as may be provided by the
council. (1963 Code, §16.01)
1.7C.2: CORPORATION COUNSEL:
There is hereby established the position of corporation counsel who shall be
appointed by the city manager, as provided by law. (1963 Code, §16.02)
1.7C.3: FUNCTIONS OF THE CORPORATION COUNSEL, GENERAL DUTIES:
The corporation counsel shall have the following duties:
   A.   Provide legal advice to the city council, city manager, department
heads, the plan commission, the zoning board of appeals, the liquor commission,
and all other boards as the city manager may direct. (1963 Code, §16.03; amd.
1986 Code; Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008)
   B.   Represent the city in all matters brought in the name of the city or
against the city in all courts of competent jurisdiction, administrative boards
as established by the Illinois Compiled Statutes, or other hearings as may be
directed by the city manager. (The aforementioned duty is subject to an
exception for those causes of action in which the city is a party defendant
under insurance coverage of the city, in which case, the city's insurance
carrier shall have the right to select legal counsel to appear and represent
the city in said cause of action.) (1963 Code, §16.03; amd. 1986 Code)
ARTICLE D. PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1.7D.1: Department Established
1.7D.2: Director Of Public Works
1.7D.3: Functions Of The Director Of Public Works
1.7D.4: City Engineer
1.7D.5: Functions Of The City Engineer
1.7D.6: Development Engineer
1.7D.7: Functions Of The Development Engineer
1.7D.1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created the public works department for the city. It shall
consist of the director of public works and all other employees with such
titles as may be appointed by the city manager provided for in the annual
appropriation and city budget ordinance. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
1.7D.2: DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:
There is hereby established a position of director of public works, who shall
be appointed by the city manager, as provided by law. The director of public
works shall have control over all employees assigned to this department,
subject to the supervision of the city manager. Qualified persons not
possessing a professional engineering license may hold the position of director
of public works. In the event of a vacancy in the office of the director of
public works, the city manager shall serve as the ex officio head of the
department until the position is filled by separate appointment. (Ord. 04-0-16,
2-3-2004)
1.7D.3: FUNCTIONS OF THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:
The director of public works shall have charge over:
   A.   All public property of the city, including, but not limited to, all
streets, parks, parkways, sidewalks, municipal buildings and all other
properties not specifically assigned to some other department.
   B.   The maintenance and operation of the city's water and sanitary sewer
conveyance systems; all streets and sidewalks and the drainage thereof; all
vehicles, equipment, and buildings with the exception of those items
specifically placed under another department.
   C.   All construction, repair or extension of any pavement, any sewer or
water mains, and any appurtenances thereto, and all other construction, repair
or maintenance work conducted by the city.
   D.   All motor vehicles, trucks and other equipment of the city, and all
buildings or places in which the same are housed or kept with the exception of
those items and buildings specifically placed under another department.
   E.   The referral of the making of all surveys, maps, plans and
investigations regarding city facilities to engineers determined by the city
manager.
   F.   The coordination of the functions and duties of the various review
processes within the department.
   G.   The maintenance and operation of the city's water treatment facilities,
sanitary sewage treatment facilities, water supply wells, storage tanks, lift
stations and related appurtenances.
   H.   The maintenance and operation of the city's paratransit division
including vehicle maintenance, preparation of ridership information,
preparation of monthly operating reports, and preparation of reports and
records as may be required by the regional transportation authority.
   I.   The maintenance and operation of the city's park system, exclusive of
facility scheduling and recreation programs.
   J.   Shall serve as the pollution control officer for the city, with the
following additional duties:
      1.   Provide information to all departments of the city relating to
pollution control and environmental regulations and requirements.
      2.   Provide environmental evaluations and audits of all city property
and disposal practices.
      3.   Provide environmental audits for the purchase of any real estate by
the city.
      4.   Establish and administer programs for the management and
documentation of disposal of waste materials from city facilities.
      5.   Develop and implement necessary programs of corrective action on all
city property.
      6.   Develop and promote community programs for improvement of waste
disposal facilities and practices. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
1.7D.4: CITY ENGINEER:
There is hereby established the position of city engineer who shall be
appointed by the city manager, as is provided by law. When the director of
public works is a licensed engineer, he/she shall be the director of public
works/city engineer. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
1.7D.5: FUNCTIONS OF THE CITY ENGINEER:
The city engineer shall have the following duties:
   A.   Charge of and supervision over the making of all surveys, plans, maps
and investigations regarding city facilities as may be referred to him/her by
either the director of public works or the city manager.
   B.   The city engineer shall exercise approval authority over engineering
plans for all public improvements conducted for the city and shall make all
inspections needed for that purpose. The city engineer shall exercise final
approval authority for the acceptance of public improvements by the city,
constructed as part of a development project.
   C.   The review and approval of all engineering plans and development plans
for the construction of private and public improvements to be completed as part
of a planned development, subdivision of land or other private development
project.
   D.   Administer and enforce city regulations and policies for the
construction of private and public improvements to be completed as part of a
development project.
   E.   The city engineer shall issue all permits established by ordinances of
the city or the city manager which are required to be issued by the city
engineer.
   F.   Shall direct all the engineering services required of the city as well
as such other duties as may be prescribed by any ordinance of the city or
directed by the city manager. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
1.7D.6: DEVELOPMENT ENGINEER:
There is hereby created the position of development engineer, who shall be
appointed by the city manager, as provided by law, and who shall report to the
director of public works. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
1.7D.7: FUNCTIONS OF THE DEVELOPMENT ENGINEER:
The development engineer shall have the following duties:
   A.   Provide reports and recommendations to the director for the review of
all engineering plans and development plans for the construction of private and
public improvements to be completed as part of a planned development,
subdivision of land or other private development project.
   B.   To administer and enforce city regulations and policies for the
construction of private and public improvements to be completed as part of a
development project.
   C.   Provide reports and recommendations to the director pertaining to
subdivision standards, typical details, detailed specifications, and
engineering information for development guidelines.
   D.   Review and approve letter of credit information pertaining to public
and private development project, administer and manage letter of credit
guarantees, review and approve applications for the reduction of letters of
credit.
   E.   Coordinate review of detailed engineering information with consultants
who have been retained by the city.
   F.   Assist residents with general information regarding storm water
drainage, lot grading, and similar issues.
   G.   Perform other duties as may be prescribed by any ordinance of the city
or as directed by the director or the city manager. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
ARTICLE E. DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
1.7E.1: Department Established
1.7E.2: Director Of Community Development
1.7E.3: Functions Of The Director Of Community Development
1.7E.4: Building Inspector
1.7E.5: Functions Of The Building Inspector
1.7E.1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created the department of community development for the city.
It shall consist of the director of the department and all such other employees
as may be appointed by the city manager and provided for in the annual
appropriation and city budget ordinance. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
1.7E.2: DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT:
There is hereby created the position of director of community development, who
shall be appointed by the city manager, as provided by law. The director of
community development shall have control over all employees assigned to this
department, subject to the supervision of the city manager, and shall serve as
building and zoning officer for the city. In the event of a vacancy in the
office of director of community development the city manager shall serve as ex
officio head of the department until the position is filled by separate
appointment. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
1.7E.3: FUNCTIONS OF THE DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT:
The director of community development shall have the following duties:
   A.   The interpretation and administration of the zoning ordinance,
subdivision ordinance, building code, comprehensive plan and all other laws and
regulations pertaining to the planning, development, alteration, and use of
land and structures.
   B.   Maintaining and revising the comprehensive plan and corresponding
documents and studies for the city and its extraterritorial planning
jurisdiction.
   C.   Maintaining and revising the city's zoning map.
   D.   Assisting the corresponding boards and commissions in the review and
approval of requests pertaining to the functional areas within the department,
including, but not limited to, all planned developments, rezonings, amendments
to the text of the zoning ordinance, all subdivisions of land, and variations
from or amendments to corresponding codes and ordinances.
   E.   The coordination of the functions and duties of the various review
processes within the department. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
1.7E.4: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
There is hereby created the position of building inspector, who shall be
appointed by the city manager, as provided by law, and who shall report to the
director of community development. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
1.7E.5: FUNCTIONS OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR:
The building inspector shall have the following duties:
   A.   Enforce all laws and ordinances of the city pertaining to construction,
repair, or alteration of buildings or structures, and shall make or cause to be
made all inspections needed for that purpose.
   B.   Issue or cause to be issued all proper permits for such work after
payment of required fees to the director of finance.
   C.   Serve as enforcement officer for the building, electrical, and plumbing
codes and for the zoning ordinances.
   D.   Serve as the enforcement officer of ordinances of the city relating to
the construction and alteration of private improvements, including signs,
swimming pools, parking areas, sidewalks, air conditioner systems, and private
utility services, as well as for ordinances relating to the moving and/or
demolition of buildings and the removal of refuse and/or junk.
   E.   Perform such duties as may be prescribed by any ordinance of the city,
or directed by the director of community development or the city manager. (Ord.
04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
ARTICLE F. FIRE DEPARTMENT
(Rep. by Ord. 2438, 10-5-1993)
ARTICLE G. POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1.7G.1: Department Established
1.7G.2: Chief Of Police
1.7G.3: Functions Of Chief Of Police
1.7G.4: Regulations For Civilian Employees
1.7G.5: Regulations For Sworn Officers
1.7G.6: Duties Of Supervisory Personnel, Sworn And Civilian
1.7G.7: Arrest Procedures
1.7G.8: Obstructing Justice
1.7G.9: Special And Auxiliary Police
1.7G.10: Deputy Chief
1.7G.1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created a Police Department for the City which shall consist of
the Chief of Police, supervisory personnel and such sworn officers, special
police and civilian employees as provided for by the Council in the Personnel
Plan and annual budget of the City. All sworn officers, including the Chief of
Police, shall be subject to the rules established by the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners of the City, the personnel policies of the City, and any
rules and regulations adopted by ordinances of the City, orders of the Chief of
Police or his designated representative, or orders of the City Manager. (1986
Code)
1.7G.2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
There is hereby established the position of Chief of Police who shall be
appointed by the City Manager as provided by law. The Chief of Police shall
have control over all employees assigned to the Department subject to the rules
established by the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners and the supervision
of the City Manager. In the event of a vacancy in the office of Chief of
Police, the City Manager shall designate a qualified replacement. (1986 Code)
1.7G.3: FUNCTIONS OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
The Chief of Police shall have the following duties:
   A.   The Chief of Police shall be the chief executive officer of the Police
Department of the City. He shall seek the enforcement of all laws of the State
and the City, as well as the enforcement of all orders, rules and regulations
of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners. He should devote his whole time
to the duties of his position.
   B.   The Chief of Police shall be in charge of and exercise control over all
sworn officers and civilian employees of the Police Department, subject to the
authority of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners and the City Manager.
   C.   He shall have charge and custody of all property of the Police
Department including, but not limited to, alarm systems and other communication
systems used or required for the operation of the Police Department.
   D.   He shall have the charge and custody of all evidence relating to
pending cases, and all lost, abandoned or stolen property recovered by the
City.
   E.   He shall be the keeper of the City jail and custodian of all persons
confined therein.
   F.   He shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all arrests made in
conformity with the best possible police records system. He shall also keep
records of all traffic violations or accidents and other accidents resulting in
loss, damage or injury to persons or property and shall supervise the operation
of traffic-control devices.
   G.   He shall give notice to the City Manager of all damage to City property
coming to the attention of the Police Department together with the complete
report relating thereto.
   H.   He shall notify the City Manager and the City Attorney of the violation
of City ordinances and of the filing of all complaints for warrants relating to
the violations of City ordinances insofar as the knowledge of the filing of
such complaints is had by the Police Department.
   I.   He shall ensure the preservation of peace and order at elections and
provide adequate police protection at every public assembly in the City.
   J.   He shall make an annual report to the City Manager showing the work
carried on by the Department during the preceding year in such detail as may be
required by the City Manager, together with suggestions and recommendations for
the improvement of police service.
   K.   The Chief of Police may, subject to the approval of the City Manager,
establish reasonable rules and regulations relating to routine work of the
Department consistent with the ordinances of the City and the rules and
regulations of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners. Wilful failure on
the part of any sworn or civilian employee of the Police Department to comply
with such rules and regulations shall be deemed to be a disobedience of lawful
orders of the Chief of Police.
   L.   The Chief of Police shall assign sworn officers and civilian employees
of the Police Department to such responsibilities within the Department as he
shall determine. To implement the foregoing, the Chief may designate an
administrative assistant to the Chief, designate a number of sworn officers to
work in civilian clothes under the title of detective, and to make such other
internal assignments as he may deem necessary and appropriate. No internal
appointment as either administrative assistant to the Chief, or detective or
other internal assignment shall be deemed a promotion, and no sworn officer
receiving such an assignment shall be entitled to any automatic increase in
salary. (1986 Code)
1.7G.4: REGULATIONS FOR CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES:
   A.   All civilian employees of the Police Department shall perform such
duties as may be assigned to them by the Chief of Police or by the City
Manager.
   B.   It shall be the duty of all such civilian employees to adhere to such
rules and regulations as may from time to time be established by the Chief of
Police with the approval of the City Manager. (1986 Code)
1.7G.5: REGULATIONS FOR SWORN OFFICERS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every sworn officer of the Police Department to
conduct himself in a proper and law-abiding manner at all times and to avoid
the use of unnecessary force.
   B.   Each and every sworn officer of the Police Department shall devote his
whole time and attention to the business of the Department; and every sworn
officer is expressly prohibited from following any other calling, being in any
other business, or holding any other lucrative position unless approval is
first obtained from the Chief of Police and although certain hours are
allocated in respect to sworn officers for the performance of duties on
ordinary occasions, they must, nevertheless, be prepared at all times to act
immediately on notice that their services are required.
   C.   Every sworn officer shall wear a suitable badge and uniform. The badge
shall be furnished by the City and shall be the indicia of authority of all
sworn officers. The badge shall remain the property of the City and be
surrendered to the Chief of Police, together with other property of the City
which may be in his/her possession, upon his/her death, discharge or
resignation.
   D.   No sworn officer shall make a false official report or make a false
statement or gossip about a sworn officer or civilian employee of the
Department or the business of the Department to the discredit or detriment of
any such sworn officer or civilian employee of the Department. No sworn officer
shall, upon the street, in any business house, or other place, to any sworn
officer or civilian employee of the Department, or to any citizen, make any
remark in regard to or about any other sworn officer or civilian employee of
the Department, which may bring the Department or sworn officer or civilian
employee disrepute, or subject it or him to any ridicule.
   E.   Any matters which any sworn officer feels should be brought to the
attention of the Department shall be communicated directly to the Chief or the
person acting in his stead.
   F.   No sworn officer shall drink intoxicating liquor while on duty. No
sworn officer shall smoke while on duty unless otherwise provided for by the
rules and regulations of the Chief of Police.
   G.   No sworn officer shall loiter in any store or other place of business
while on duty. No sworn officer of the Department, while on duty, shall enter
any place where intoxicating liquor is sold, unless in the immediate discharge
of duty. No sworn officer shall attend theatrical or other public performances
in uniform unless detailed for such duty.
   H.   No sworn officer shall receive or accept any fee, reward or gift of any
kind from any person arrested, or from any friend in his/her behalf, while in
custody, or after his/her discharge.
   I.   No sworn officer shall communicate to others, without permission from
the Chief of Police, any information or orders which have been issued to any
person who is not a sworn officer of the Department, the City Manager or the
City Attorney's department. (1986 Code)
   J.   No sworn officer shall reside outside the corporate limits of McHenry
County, Illinois. (Ord. 2059, 8-4-1987)
1.7G.6: DUTIES OF SUPERVISORY PERSONNEL, SWORN AND CIVILIAN:
In addition to the regulations for sworn officers or civilian employees,
supervisory personnel shall perform such leadership and administrative duties
and functions as may be assigned by the Chief of Police or by the City Manager.
(1986 Code)
1.7G.7: ARREST PROCEDURES:
Every sworn officer of the Police Department is a conservator of the peace with
the power to make arrests. A sworn officer shall arrest without warrant any
person detected or seen by him/her in the commission of a felony, misdemeanor
or violation of a City ordinance, and any person whom he has reason to believe
is guilty of a felony, or who is escaping from lawful arrest or confinement.
Sworn officers of the Police Department shall have power to serve civil and
criminal warrants, writs and processes as are provided by law. No such process
shall be served by any sworn officer of the Department other than the Chief of
Police without an order from the Chief or his designated representative. (1986
Code)
1.7G.8: OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or assist in the escape of any
person lawfully in the custody of the Police Department or any sworn officer of
the Police Department, or to obstruct or hinder any sworn officer of the Police
Department in the performance of his/her duties or to give or make a false
official report.
No sworn officer of the Department shall recommend counsel to any prisoner in
securing counsel. No sworn officer of the Department shall retain in his/her
possession any property of the Police Department after the demand for the
surrender of such property has been made upon his/her by the Chief of Police.
No sworn officer of the Police Department found guilty of any felony or aid in
escape, extortion, oppression or lawful wrong or injustice, or conspiring with
any person against the ordinances of the City and the laws of the State shall
be retained as a sworn officer of the Department. (1986 Code)
1.7G.9: SPECIAL AND AUXILIARY POLICE:
   A.   Special Police: Special police may be appointed by the Chief of Police
upon the approval of the City Manager for such time or times as may be deemed
necessary.
   B.   Auxiliary Police: The Chief of Police, upon the approval of the City
Manager, may appoint not more than twenty one (21) auxiliary police. (1986
Code)
1.7G.10: DEPUTY CHIEF:
The position of Deputy Chief is hereby established for the Police Department of
the City. The Deputy Chief, who shall be appointed by the Chief of Police,
shall be an exempt rank immediately below that of the Chief of Police. Up to
two (2) persons may be appointed to the position of Deputy Chief. The
appointment shall be from the rank of sworn, full-time officers of the City,
but must have at least five (5) years of full-time service as a police officer
in the Police Department. The Deputy Chief shall serve at the discretion of the
Chief of Police and, if removed from the position, shall revert to the rank
held immediately prior to appointment to the Deputy Chief position. (Ord. 99-0-
55, 10-5-1999)
ARTICLE H. PARATRANSIT DEPARTMENT
(Rep. by Ord. 2315, 11-19-1991)
ARTICLE I. AMBULANCE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1.7I.1: Department Established
1.7I.2: Ambulance Chief and Members
1.7I.3: Functions
1.7I.4: Records
1.7I.5: Use of Equipment
1.7I.6: Compensation
1.7I.7: Charges
1.7I.1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created an Ambulance Department of the City, consisting of an
Ambulance Chief and such other members as may be provided for by the City
Council. (Ord. 1821, 12-20-83)
1.7I.2: AMBULANCE CHIEF AND MEMBERS:
   A.   The Ambulance Chief shall be appointed by the City Manager. At the
scene of any emergency, the Ambulance Chief and assistants shall rank in the
order named and the officer of the highest rank at any emergency shall take
command at the scene of such emergency. In the event of an emergency call at
the scene of a fire, the Ambulance Chief and his/her assistants shall take
preliminary orders and directions from the Fire Chief and assistants at the
scene of any fire.
   B.   The Ambulance Department shall consist of as many members as may be
determined from time to time by the City Council. The Ambulance Department may
have such organization approved by the Council and may hold meetings and engage
in social activities with the approval of the City Council. No member shall be
elected, appointed to or accepted into the Ambulance Department without the
approval of the City Council. No person shall be eligible to appointment within
the Ambulance Department who has not met the minimum requirements of the
Illinois Department of Public Health.
1.7I.3: FUNCTIONS:
The Ambulance Department shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To provide emergency medical services to emergency patients for
analytic, resuscitative, stabilizing or preventative purposes, preceding and
during transportation to hospitals.
   B.   To respond to any calls for emergency medical services for the pre-
hospital treatment or transportation of a person or persons in a condition or
situation needing immediate medical attention or in a situation where such need
is declared by emergency medical personnel or public safety official.
   C.   To operate a general ambulance service for the transportation of the
sick, injured, wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless from or to
hospitals, nursing homes or health systems agencies.
1.7I.4: RECORDS:
The Ambulance Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings and
the attendance of members, a record of all emergency calls and the attendance
of members at such calls and a record of all activities of the Department. Each
April, the Ambulance Chief shall file with the City Manager a full report of
said records and attendance and emergency calls.
The Ambulance Chief shall make such Department records as are necessary
available for the review or audit of the City Council or the City Manager, when
requested.
The Ambulance Chief shall be responsible for the preliminary preparation of the
Department annual budget.
1.7I.5: USE OF EQUIPMENT:
   A.   No person shall use any ambulance, equipment or other apparatus
belonging to the City for any private purpose other than the rendition of
emergency medical services or care, or remove the same or any part thereof from
its location on the property of the City.
   B.   No person shall wilfully or negligently break, deface, or in any manner
injure any ambulance, equipment or other apparatus belonging to the City or
remove any part of such ambulance apparatus or equipment or in any manner
interfere with the same when being used by a proper person or authority.
1.7I.6: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the Ambulance Department shall be paid in accordance with the
schedule established by the City Council.
1.7I.7: CHARGES:
The City Council may establish fees and charges for the provision of ambulance
services. (1986 Code)
ARTICLE J. PERFORMING ARTS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1.7J.1: Department Established
1.7J.2: Director Of The Woodstock Opera House
1.7J.3: Functions Of The Director Of The Woodstock Opera House
1.7J.4: Opera House Surcharge
1.7J.1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created the performing arts department for the city. It shall
consist of the director of the Woodstock Opera House and all other employees as
may be appointed by the city manager as provided by the city council. (1986
Code)
1.7J.2: DIRECTOR OF THE WOODSTOCK OPERA HOUSE:
There is hereby established a position of director of the Woodstock Opera
House, who shall be appointed by the city manager, as provided by law. The
director of the opera house shall have control over all employees assigned to
this department, subject to the supervision of the city manager. In the event
of a vacancy in the position of director of the Woodstock Opera House, the city
manager shall serve as ex officio head of the department until the position is
filled by separate appointment. (1986 Code)
1.7J.3: FUNCTIONS OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE WOODSTOCK OPERA HOUSE:
The director of the Woodstock Opera House shall have the following duties:
   A.   The direction, execution and evaluation of all phases of opera house
programming.
   B.   The overseeing of the Woodstock municipal band program and the
programming of the bandstand and the springhouse in the park in the square.
   C.   The ongoing maintenance of and development of recommendations for the
long term restoration of the Woodstock Opera House.
   D.   Assisting the various boards and commissions which have direct input in
the operations of the opera house including, but not limited to, the
establishment of policy and fundraising procedures and activities.
   E.   Keeping or causing to be kept a record of all activities of the
department including the financial and attendance records. He shall make an
annual report to the city manager regarding the work carried on by the
department during the preceding year, together with suggestions and
recommendations for future improvements. (1986 Code)
1.7J.4: OPERA HOUSE SURCHARGE:
   A.   A surcharge is hereby established for the sale of any ticket to a
performance, program, etc., at the Woodstock Opera House. For purposes of this
section, the purchase of a series ticket shall be considered one ticket.
   B.   A surcharge of three dollars ($3.00) shall be applied to each ticket
sale. The surcharge shall be applicable to all productions, except youth
programs, beginning on or after May 1, 2006. Youth programs shall be exempt
from the surcharge.
   C.   All surcharge proceeds shall be deposited in the debt service fund and
utilized for the repayment of the series 2001B alternative revenue bonds, which
were issued to construct the opera house annex. (Ord. 06-0-15, 2-21-2006, eff.
5-1-2006)
ARTICLE K. DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
1.7K.1: Department Established
1.7K.2: Director Of Business Development
1.7K.3: Functions Of Director Of Business Development
1.7K.1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created the Department of Business Development for the City. It
shall consist of the Director of the Department and all such other employees as
may be appointed by the City Manager and provided for in the annual
appropriation and City Budget Ordinance. (Ord. 2643, 9-3-1996)
1.7K.2: DIRECTOR OF BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT:
There is hereby created the position of Director of Business Development, who
shall be appointed by the City Manager, as provided by law. The Director of
Business Development shall have control over all employees assigned to this
Department, subject to the supervision of the City Manager. In the event of a
vacancy in the Office of Director of Business Development the City Manager
shall serve as ex-officio head of the Department until the position is filled
by separate appointment. (Ord. 2643, 9-3-1996)
1.7K.3: FUNCTIONS OF DIRECTOR OF BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT:
The Director of Business Development shall have the following duties:
   A.   To coordinate the Business Retention and Expansion Program as directed
by the City Manager, to include development of appropriate systems for
information flow, analysis and response, and to prepare periodic reports.
   B.   Provide follow-up assistance to prospective employers to encourage the
attraction of investment to Woodstock with the assistance of the City Manager.
   C.   Design and implement activities to stimulate entrepreneurial
development, business development and redevelopment.
   D.   Assist existing and prospective employers in identifying and obtaining
public and private financial assistance for business expansion/location in
Woodstock.
   E.   Develop and maintain information clearinghouse and files, including:
demographic and socioeconomic indicators, labor force information, available
commercial and industrial site/buildings, locational and market data, updates
of fact sheets and individual community profiles.
   F.   Provide written, telephone and in-person response and follow- up to
inquiries from potential and existing business prospects and the general public
of the Woodstock economy and business climate. Market cold calls to prospective
businesses.
   G.   Conduct specific research on development issues and topics as directed
by the City Manager.
   H.   Represent the City at business development-related functions and
meetings; deliver presentations and other public relations efforts to promote
the City.
   I.   Serve as lead staff person to the Woodstock Economic Development
Corporation.
   J.   Other duties as prescribed by ordinance or as directed by the City
Manager. (Ord. 2643, 9-3-1996)
ARTICLE L. ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
1.7L.1: Adoption Of State Statutes
1.7L.2: Department Established
1.7L.3: Hearing Officer Powers, Duties And Qualifications
1.7L.4: Code Administrator Duties
1.7L.5: Instituting Code Hearing Provisions
1.7L.6: Subpoenas And Defaults
1.7L.7: Continuances And Representation At Code Hearings
1.7L.8: Hearing Evidence
1.7L.9: Eviction And Rights Of The Defendant
1.7L.10: Defenses To Code Violations
1.7L.11: Findings, Decision And Order
1.7L.12: Administrative Review Law
1.7L.13: Judgment On Findings, Decision And Order
1.7L.14: Sanctions Applicable To The Owner And Property
1.7L.15: Administrative Adjudication Concerning Automated Traffic Law
Violations
1.7L.16: Vehicle Impoundment
1.7L.1: ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES:
The following statutes, as from time to time amended, are adopted in their
entirety and any person charged with the violation of a municipal ordinance may
be prosecuted under and in accordance with the provisions herein: a) 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.1-1 et seq., administrative adjudications; b)
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-1 et seq., building code violations; c)
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3, administrative adjudication of
violations of traffic regulations concerning the standing, parking or
conditions of vehicles and automated traffic law violations; d) 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.6, which authorizes the City to create and implement
an automated traffic law enforcement system; and e) 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-208.7, administrative fees and procedures for impounding vehicles
for specified violations. The adoption of these statutes shall not preclude the
City from using other methods to enforce City ordinances. (Ord. 12-O-02, 1-17-
2012; amd. Ord. 20-O-57, 8- 4-2020)
1.7L.2: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
   A.   A code hearing department is hereby established for the city as a
separate and independent agency in the municipal government. The purpose of the
code hearing department is to expedite the prosecution and correction of code
violations in the manner set forth herein. The provisions set forth in this
article may be used in the adjudication of any violations of a city ordinance
except for any offense under the Illinois vehicle code 1  or this code or
similar offense that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of
vehicles, and except for any reportable offenses under section 5/6-204 of the
Illinois vehicle code.
   B.   The code hearing department shall be comprised of the following
individuals appointed by the city manager:
      1.   A hearing officer who may also be referred to as an administrative
law judge;
      2.   The chief of police or designee;
      3.   The deputy city manager or designee;
      4.   A code administrator; and
      5.   Any person or persons deemed necessary for the efficient
administration of the code hearing department.
   C.   In no event may the hearing officer be an employee of the city. (Ord.
09-O-16, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS.
1.7L.3: HEARING OFFICER POWERS, DUTIES AND QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   The powers and duties of the hearing officer include:
      1.   Hearing testimony and accepting evidence that is relevant to the
existence of the code violation;
      2.   Issuing subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
      3.   Preserving and authenticating the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      4.   Issuing a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, of whether a code violation exists. The determination shall be in
writing and shall include a written finding of fact, decision, and order
including the fine, penalty, or action with which the defendant must comply;
and
      5.   Imposing penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and
assessing costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation, except,
however, that in no event shall the hearing officer have authority to (i)
impose a penalty of incarceration, or (ii) impose a fine in excess of $50,000,
or at the option of the City, such other amount not to exceed the maximum
amount established by the Mandatory Arbitration System as prescribed by the
Rules of the Illinois Supreme Court from time to time for the 22nd Judicial
Circuit, McHenry County. The maximum monetary fine under this item (5), shall
be exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs imposed to secure compliance with
the City's ordinances and shall not be applicable to cases to enforce the
collection of any tax imposed and collected by the City.
   B.   Every hearing officer shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in
the State of Illinois for at least three years and have successfully completed
a formal training program which includes the following:
      1.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative hearings
which they will conduct;
      2.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that they
will adjudicate;
      3.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
      4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders. (Ord. 09-O-16, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009; amd. Ord. 20-
O-57, 8-4-2020)
1.7L.4: CODE ADMINISTRATOR DUTIES:
The code administrator may be a city employee or an independent contractor or
agency contracted by the city to perform such duties as enumerated herein. The
code administrator is authorized, empowered and directed to:
   A.   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of all
code violations, as may be permitted by law and directed by ordinance;
   B.   Adopt, distribute, and process all notices as may be required herein;
   C.   Operate and maintain a computerized program for the system of
administrative adjudication;
   D.   Keep accurate records of adjudication appearances and activities;
   E.   Collect monies paid as fines and/or penalties after a final
determination of liability; and
   F.   Other duties as may be necessary to efficiently administer this
article. (Ord. 09-O-16, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
1.7L.5: INSTITUTING CODE HEARING PROVISIONS:
   A.   When a police officer, building inspector, code enforcement officer or
other individual authorized to issue a code violation finds that a code
violation exists, that individual shall note the violation on a multiple copy
violation notice, report and hearing notice that indicates:
      1.   The name and address of the defendant;
      2.   The type and nature of the violation including a reference to the
appropriate section of the code and potential penalties that may result;
      3.   The date and time the violation was observed;
      4.   The names of witnesses to the violation;
      5.   In the event of a building code violation, the address of the
structure or premises where the violation is observed;
      6.   The means by which the defendant may waive the right to a hearing
and pay the applicable fine for the violation;
      7.   The time and date and location of the hearing; and
      8.   Penalties which may occur if the defendant fails to appear.
   B.   For the purpose of a code violation relating to real property, the
property owner shall be prima facie responsible for a violation that occurs on
such property and subject to the penalty therefor. For violations relating to
motor vehicles, the owner or operator of said vehicle shall be prima facie
responsible for a violation that occurs.
   C.   The violation notice, report, and hearing notice shall be forwarded to
the code hearing department and a docket number shall be assigned and stamped
on all copies thereto and a hearing date shall be noted on the form. Hearings
shall be scheduled with reasonable promptness, provided that for hearings
scheduled in all non-emergency situations, if requested by the defendant, the
defendant shall have at least fifteen (15) days after service of process to
prepare for a hearing. For purposes of this subsection (C), "non-emergency
situation" means any situation that does not reasonably constitute a threat to
the public interest, safety, or welfare. If service is provided by mail, the
fifteen (15)-day period shall begin to run on the day that the notice is
deposited in the mail.
   D.   A copy of the violation notice, report, and hearing notice shall be (1)
maintained in the files of the code hearing department and shall become part of
the record of the hearing, (2) provided to the individual representing the
City, and (3) served to the Defendant. The Defendant shall be served with
process in a manner reasonably calculated to give them actual notice,
including, as appropriate, personal service of process upon a party or its
employees or agents; service by mail at a party's address; or notice that is
posted upon the property where the violation is found when the party is the
owner or manager of the property.
   Service of a building code violation shall comply with 65 ILCS 5/11-31.1-4,
as amended from time to time.
   Service of a vehicular parking, standing, or compliance violation notice
shall comply with 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3(b)(3) as amended from time to time. (Ord.
09-O-16, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009; amd. Ord. 20-O-57, 8-4-2020)
1.7L.6: SUBPOENAS AND DEFAULTS:
At any time prior to the hearing date, the hearing officer assigned to the case
may, at the request of either party, direct witnesses to appear and give
testimony at the hearing. If the defendant or the defendant's attorney fails to
appear on the specified hearing date, the hearing officer may find the
defendant in default and shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence
relevant to the existence of a code violation. (Ord. 09-O-16, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-
1-2009)
1.7L.7: CONTINUANCES AND REPRESENTATION AT CODE HEARINGS:
Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. The case for the
City may be presented by an attorney designated by the City or by any other
City employee, except that the case for the City shall not be presented by an
employee of the code hearing department. The case for the defendant may be
presented by the defendant or the defendant's attorney or any other agent or
representative of the defendant. (Ord. 09-O-16, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009; amd.
Ord. 20-O-57, 8-4-2020)
1.7L.8: HEARING EVIDENCE:
At the hearing, the hearing officer shall preside, shall hear testimony and
shall accept any evidence relevant to the existence or nonexistence of a code
violation. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply to hearings authorized by this article. Evidence, including
hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon by
reasonably prudent person in the conduct of their affairs. Parties may be
represented by counsel, present witnesses, and cross-examine opposing
witnesses. (Ord. 09-O-16, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009; amd. Ord. 20-O-57, 8-4-2020)
1.7L.9: EVICTION AND RIGHTS OF THE DEFENDANT:
No action for eviction, abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer or
other similar proceedings shall be threatened or instituted against an occupant
of a structure or premises solely because such occupant agrees to testify or
testifies at a code violation hearing. (Ord. 09-O-16, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
1.7L.10: DEFENSES TO CODE VIOLATIONS:
   A.   It shall be a defense to a code violation charged if the owner, the
owner's attorney or any other agent or representative proves to the hearing
officer's satisfaction that:
      1.   The code violation has been caused by the current property occupants
and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the owner to maintain the structure
or premises free of such violation, the current occupants continue to cause the
violations; or
      2.   An occupant or resident of the structure or premises has refused
entry to the owner or the owner's agent to all or part of the structure or
premises for the purpose of correcting the code violation.
   B.   It shall not constitute a defense at any proceeding that a person or
entity came into compliance with the ordinance after the date of the alleged
violation, except to the limited extent as set forth in subsection 3.5B, of the
unified development ordinance, pursuant to which penalties shall commence after
the date specified in the notice of violation. (Ord. 17-O-25, 3-7-2017)
1.7L.11: FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER:
At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall make a
determination based on the evidence presented at the hearing as to whether or
not a code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and shall be
designated as "findings, decision and order". The findings, decision and order
shall include: a) the hearing officer's finding of facts, b) a decision as to
whether a code violation exists based on the findings of fact, and c) an order
that states the sanction or dismisses the case if a violation is not proved. A
monetary sanction for a violation under the terms of this article shall not
exceed the amount authorized by statute. If a building code violation is
proved, the order may also impose the sanctions that are provided in this code
for the violation proved. A copy of the findings, decision and order shall be
served on the defendant within five (5) days after it is issued. Service shall
be in the same manner that the violation report and summons are served in
accordance with subsection 1.7L.5D of this article. Payment of any penalty or
fine and the disposition of fine money shall be in the same manner as set forth
in this code unless otherwise provided for; however, payment of such fine or
penalty shall be made no later than ten (10) days after the determination has
been made by the hearing officer. (Ord. 09-O-16, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
1.7L.12: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW:
The findings, decision, and order shall be subject to review in the 22nd
judicial circuit court of McHenry County, Illinois. The provisions of the
Illinois administrative review law, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et
seq., or as hereinafter amended, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto, shall
apply to and govern every action for the judicial review of the findings,
decision and order of the hearing officer under this article. Any person filing
for judicial review under the Illinois administrative review law shall be
subject to the assessment of costs for the preparation and certification of the
record of proceeding before the hearing officer. (Ord. 09-O-16, 3-3-2009, eff.
5-1-2009)
1.7L.13: JUDGMENT ON FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER:
   A.   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the administrative review
law shall be a debt due and owing the city and, as such, may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final determination of a
code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
findings, decision, and order of the hearing officer may be enforced in the
same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction,
including, but not limited to, judgments for the recovery of money, and any
other orders and injunctions that are requested by the City to enforce the
order of the hearing officer to correct a code violation.
   C.   In any case in which a defendant has failed to comply with a judgment
ordering a defendant to correct a code violation or imposing any fine or other
sanction as a result of a code violation, any expenses incurred by the city to
enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney's fees, court
costs, and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure, after they are
fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a hearing officer, shall be a
debt due and owing the city and may be collected in accordance with applicable
law. Prior to any expenses being fixed by a hearing officer pursuant this
section, the city shall provide notice to the defendant that states that the
defendant shall appear at a hearing before the administrative hearing officer
to determine whether the defendant has failed to comply with the judgment. The
notice shall set the date for such a hearing, which shall not be less than
seven (7) days from the date that notice is served. If notice is served by
mail, the seven (7)-day period shall begin to run on the date that the notice
was deposited in the mail.
   D.   Upon being recorded in the manner required by article XII of the
Illinois Code of Civil Procedure or by the Uniform Commercial Code, a lien
shall be imposed on the real estate or personal estate, or both, of the
defendant in the amount of any debt due and owing the City under this section.
The lien may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a
judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   E.   A hearing officer may set aside any judgment entered by default and set
a new hearing date, upon a petition filed within twenty-one (21) days after the
issuance of the order of default, if the hearing officer determines that the
petitioner's failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause or at any time
if the petitioner establishes that the city did not provide proper service of
process. This section shall not be construed to limit the hearing officer from
setting aside any judgment when the petition is uncontested or by agreement of
the parties. If any judgment is set aside pursuant to this subsection, the
hearing officer shall have authority to enter an order extinguishing any lien
which has been recorded for any debt due and owing the city as a result of the
vacated default judgment. (Ord. 15-O-58, 10-6-2015; amd. Ord. 09-O-16, 3-3-
2009, eff. 5-1-2009; Ord. 20-O-57. 8-4-2020)
1.7L.14: SANCTIONS APPLICABLE TO THE OWNER AND PROPERTY:
The order to correct a code violation and the sanctions imposed by the city as
the result of a finding of a code violation shall attach to the property as
well as to the owner of the property, so that a finding of a code violation
against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or transferring the property
to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner of property takes
ownership of the property subject to the findings, decision and order of the
hearing officer under this article. (Ord. 09-O-16, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
1.7L.15: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION CONCERNING AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW
VIOLATIONS:
Except as otherwise provided for, title 5, chapter 5, "Automated Traffic Law
Enforcement", of this code shall be subject to the procedures of this article.
(Ord. 09-O-16, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
1.7L.16: VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Administrative Fee: In addition to any fees charged for the towing and
storage of an impounded vehicle, the city may impose an administrative fee not
to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) related to its administrative and
processing costs associated with the investigation, arrest and detention of an
offender, or the removal, impoundment, storage and release of the vehicle. The
administrative fee shall be waived upon verifiable proof that the vehicle was
stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded. (Ord. 12-O-02, 1-17-2012)
   B.   Violations: The administrative fee may be imposed and a motor vehicle
may be impounded upon probable cause that any of the following violations have
occurred:
      1.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to section 36-1 of the criminal code of 2012; or
      2.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
section 11-501 of the Illinois vehicle code; or
      3.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the cannabis control act; or
      4.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois controlled
substances act; or
      5.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of section 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-3.1
of the criminal code of 1961 or the criminal code of 2012; or
      6.   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to section 6-303 of the Illinois
vehicle code; except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or
impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or
due to failure to comply with emission testing; or
      7.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the cannabis control act or the Illinois controlled substances act; or
      8.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's
license, in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois vehicle code, if the
period of expiration is greater than one year; or
      9.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver's license or permit, in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois
vehicle code, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit due to a person's age; or
      10.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated section 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the
Illinois vehicle code; or
      11.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of article 16 or 16A of the criminal
code of 1961 or the criminal code of 2012; or
      12.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
criminal code of 1961 or the criminal code of 2012, when so provided by this
code; or
      13.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of section 11-503
of the Illinois vehicle code:
         a.   While the vehicle is part of a funeral procession; or
         b.   In a manner that interferes with a funeral procession. (Ord. 17-
O-03, 1-17-2017)
   C.   Fees Imposed And Collection: The following shall apply to any fees
imposed for administrative and processing costs pursuant to subsection B of
this section:
      1.   All administrative fees and towing and storage charges shall be
imposed on the registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that
owner. The registered owner shall be the record titleholder to a motor vehicle
as registered with the Illinois secretary of state or any other applicable
governmental agency.
      2.   The fees shall be in addition to: a) any other penalties that may be
assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations; and b) any towing or
storage fees, or both, charged by the towing company.
      3.   The fees shall be uniform for all similarly situated vehicles.
      4.   The fees shall be collected by and paid to the city.
      5.   The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid
to the person, firm, or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
Costs for towing and storage of a motor vehicle shall be those approved by the
chief of police for all tow companies authorized to tow for the police
department.
   D.   Administrative Hearing: A hearing shall be provided pursuant to 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3(b)(4). The vehicle shall be released to
the owner of record, lessee or a lienholder of record upon payment of all
administrative fees and towing and storage fees.
   E.   Administrative Hearing Requirements:
      1.   Administrative hearings shall be conducted by a hearing officer who
is an attorney licensed to practice law in the state for a minimum of three (3)
years and who is not an officer or employee of the city. The hearing officer
shall be designated by the city manager;
      2.   The hearing officer shall have the power to administer oaths and to
secure the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of relevant
books and papers via subpoena;
      3.   The hearing shall be recorded and the technical/formal rules of
evidence shall not apply;
      4.   Individuals appearing before the hearing officer shall have the
right to be represented by counsel at their own expense;
      5.   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing officer
shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the vehicle
impoundment;
      6.   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the hearing
officer, the administrative fee shall be imposed in accordance with Paragraph A
of this Section. Any administrative fee previously posted to secure the release
of the vehicle shall be forfeited to the city, and any outstanding fees shall
be paid prior to release of any vehicle still impounded. The fact that the
impounded vehicle may have been released prior to a hearing without the
administrative fee having been paid or that the title or interest in the
vehicle transferred to any person, firm, or entity subsequent to the impound
shall not constitute a defense to the obligation to pay the administrative fee.
      7.   All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be
subject to review under the provisions of the administrative review law; and
      8.   Unless the administrative hearing officer overturns the basis for
the vehicle impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee or
lienholder of record until all administrative fees and towing and storage
charges are paid.
   F.   Notice Of Impoundment: The following provisions shall be observed
concerning notice of impoundment:
      1.   Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor vehicle
is subject to impoundment, the officer shall provide for the towing of the
vehicle to a facility authorized by the municipality.
      2.   At the time the vehicle is towed, the city shall notify or make a
reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee, or person identifying himself
or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to
be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of the fact of
the seizure, and of the vehicle owner's or lessee's right to an administrative
hearing.
      3.   The city shall provide notice that the motor vehicle will remain
impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless the owner
or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder posts with the city a bond equal to
the administrative fee as provided by this section and pays for all towing and
storage charges.
   G.   Notice Of Hearing: The registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and
any lienholder of record shall be provided with a notice of hearing. The notice
shall:
      1.   Be served upon the owner, lessee and any lienholder of record either
by personal service or by first class mail to the interested party's address as
registered with the secretary of state;
      2.   Be served upon interested parties within ten (10) days after a
vehicle is impounded by the city; and
      3.   Contain the date, time and location of the administrative hearing.
An initial hearing shall be scheduled and convened no later than forty five
(45) days after the date of the mailing of the notice of hearing.
   H.   Failure To Retrieve Vehicle: Vehicles not retrieved from the towing or
storage facility within thirty five (35) days after the administrative officer
issues a written decision shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 et
seq., abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicles.
   I.   Enforcement: Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any
fine, penalty or administrative fee imposed under this section which remains
unpaid in whole or in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking
review under section
 1.7L.12 of this article, may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   J.   Applicability Of Other Laws: This section is in addition to and shall
not replace or otherwise abrogate any existing state or federal laws or any
ordinance that relates to the seizure or impoundment of motor vehicles, and any
fee provided for in this section shall be in addition to any and all penalties
that may be assessed or imposed by a court for any criminal charges. This
section shall not apply: 1) if the motor vehicle used in the violation was
stolen at the time of the violation or 2) if the motor vehicle is subject to
successful forfeiture proceedings under 725 Illinois Compiled Statutes 150/1 et
seq., as amended (drug asset forfeiture procedure act); 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/36-1 et seq., as amended (seizure and forfeiture of vessels,
vehicles and aircraft); or 3) other state or federal forfeiture laws.
   K.   Administrative Review: Any owner of record, lienholder or other person
with a legal interest in the motor vehicle, shall have the right to appeal the
decision of the hearing officer to the 22nd judicial circuit court, pursuant to
the administrative review act, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq.,
as amended. Any respondent seeking review of a final decision shall be required
to reimburse the city for the costs of preparing and certifying the record of
proceedings. Failure of the respondent to reimburse the city shall be grounds
for the dismissal of a complaint for administrative review pursuant to 735
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-109. In the event the reviewing court reverses
the findings, decision and order of the administrative law judge, the city will
reimburse the respondent for the costs for preparing and certifying the record
of proceedings. Any administrative fee posted with the city to secure the
release of a motor vehicle prior to a hearing shall be held by the city until
the hearing officer issues a decision or, if there is judicial review of the
hearing officer's decision, until a reviewing court issues a final decision.
   L.   Administrative Fee Refund: A finding of "not guilty" following a trial
in the 22nd judicial circuit court for the underlying violation wherein the
motor vehicle was impounded, shall entitle the owner of record to a full and
complete refund of any administrative fee imposed under this section. However,
the owner of record must request the refund in writing and shall include in the
request a certified disposition of "not guilty" following a trial from the 22nd
circuit court clerk. An order of dismissal or a negotiated disposition on the
underlying charge(s) shall not result in a refund of the administrative fee.
(Ord. 12-O-02, 1-17-2012; amd. Ord. 23-O-45, 9-5-2023)
CHAPTER 8
MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1.8.1: Corporate Seal
1.8.2: City Datum
1.8.3: Annual Audit Of Accounts
1.8.4: Reimbursement Of City Expenses
1.8.5: Use Of Public Buildings
1.8.6: Use Of City Council Chambers
1.8.1: CORPORATE SEAL:
The corporate seal of the city is as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4dab9daa3760717eed3dfba32280dfcb48722d44/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1869.png]
(1963 Code, §20.03; amd. 1986 Code)
1.8.2: CITY DATUM:
The datum for the establishment of grades in the city is established or fixed
from time to time by the council in ordinances or public improvements or
otherwise shall refer. This plane is the city datum and is established at
seventy feet (70') below the center of a crosscut in the cornerstone in the
northeast corner of the Woodstock Opera House. The crosscut is marked "city
datum" in the stone. (1963 Code, §20.07; amd. 1986 Code)
1.8.3: ANNUAL AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS:
The city council shall, no later than six (6) months after the close of each
fiscal year, cause an audit to be made of all accounts of the city by a
competent person designated by the council and authorized to act as an auditor
under the law 1 . Copies of such audit report shall be filed with the city
clerk and with the director of the state department of revenue and in such
other places as may be required by law or designated by the council. (1963
Code, §20.10)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-8-1 et seq.
1.8.4: REIMBURSEMENT OF CITY EXPENSES:
   A.   The mayor, city council and/or the city manager may request the city's
planning consultant, engineer, attorney, any other designated consultant,
department head, or staff to review petitions, land use plans, plats and
documents pertaining to subdivision or resubdivision, zoning or rezoning and/or
annexation of land for residential purposes either within or outside the
corporate boundary of the city. Request for review shall be made in advance of
any preliminary presentation before the plan commission to allow designated
consultants, department heads or staff to be in attendance at the presentation.
   B.   Each department head, individual or firm designated to review a
proposed project shall, within seven (7) days of the request for review,
present the city council and property owner or developer with a written
estimate of time, materials, and costs involved. Such costs shall reflect
specific areas of review and standard hourly or per diem rates charged to the
city. Where unusual circumstances involve a number of unknown tasks, a cost
ceiling and standard hourly or per diem rate may be set to allow "work in
progress" review and flexibility to cover costs incurred. All activities shall
take place after preliminary presentation of the proposed project before the
plan commission and sufficient copies of all pertinent documents, land use
plan, plats and reports shall be made available for each review, to the plan
commission and city council to inform them of the status and impact of each
project. Copies of all reviews and reports shall be made available to the
developer.
   C.   The person petitioning for rezoning and/or annexation or presenting
subdivision, resubdivision, or land use plan shall be notified that the
services of the city's department heads, staff, or the planning consultant,
engineer, attorney, or other consultants are required. Such notification shall
be given to the petitioner prior to the preliminary presentation before the
plan commission or other commission, board or the corporate authority. Should
additional review be required, subsequent notice shall be given by the
consultant or department head performing the review, to the petitioner
concerning the extent, content, and estimated cost of such review and report.
(Ord. 1406, 10-18-1977)
   D.   Petitioners for rezoning and/or annexation, or presenting a
subdivision, resubdivision, or land use plan shall, hereafter, deposit with the
city clerk, a sum of money as established from time to time by the city
council, as security for the reimbursement of review expenses. Where unusual
problems or conditions are encountered which require additional review, the
corporate authority shall notify the petitioner of such conditions. Should
additional funds be required as a deposit, such notification shall be given to
the petitioner. (Ord. 1406, 10-18-1977; amd. 1986 Code)
   E.   Planning consultants, engineers, attorneys or other consultants to the
city shall submit itemized bills for services, materials and out of pocket
costs incurred in performing tasks identified in subsections A and B of this
section to the city. Standard hourly or per diem rates, normally billed to the
city, shall be charged. The city shall be reimbursed for costs paid to its
consultants from the amount on deposit, as required in subsection D of this
section. If the amount on deposit shall, for any reason, be insufficient to
fully reimburse the city for any costs and charges so paid, the deficiency
shall be billed to and collected from the owner or developer. Should city staff
be involved in designated review tasks, such services shall be reimbursed to
the city in a similar manner, determined by multiplying the number of hours
spent on the review by the average hourly cost of the city for salary,
materials, overhead, fringe benefits and expenses.
   F.   Normal review procedures will require from thirty (30) to forty five
(45) days depending upon problems encountered. During the review period, the
petitioner may request and shall receive a statement on costs incurred for
review activities to date. As services are completed, statements shall be
presented to the city so that compensation may be made following normal
administrative practices of the corporate authority.
   G.   Funds deposited with the city clerk which are not required to reimburse
the planning consultant, engineer, attorney or other designated consultant
shall be returned to the petitioner; provided, that all services requested have
been completed and all bills have been paid in full. (Ord. 1406, 10-18-1977)
1.8.5: USE OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
   A.   Application for the use of any city building other than a park building
shall be in writing addressed to the city clerk. The application shall state
the name and address of the applicant, the use for which the building is
desired and the names of at least two (2) references.
   B.   The city manager, if satisfied that the applicant is of good character
and reputation and the purpose for which the building is desired is worthy,
lawful and of a civic nature, shall report the result of his investigation to
the council. In case of rental, the recommendation shall state the amount of
rental and the financial responsibility of the applicant. No lease shall be
entered into without the consent and approval of the council.
   C.   If the application is approved by the council, the city clerk shall
issue the permit, but in the case of a lease, the lease itself shall constitute
the permit. (1963 Code, §20.11)
1.8.6: USE OF CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS:
   A.   The general management and direction of the city council chambers and
its use shall be vested in the city manager.
   B.   Application for the use of the city council chambers by any person
shall be submitted, in writing, on forms provided by the city not less than
seven (7) days prior to the date of the proposed use. The application shall be
submitted in writing over the signature of a duly authorized representative of
the group or organization and shall be submitted on the forms provided by the
city. All applications shall be submitted in duplicate. Within seventy two (72)
hours after the submission of the application in proper form, the city manager
shall endorse the original application and the copy either "approved" or
"rejected" and return a copy thereof to the applicant with any appropriate
remarks.
      1.   In the event there is a question in the mind of the city manager as
to the propriety of the use or the propriety of the person as to its
eligibility for use, the city manager shall so advise the applicant and the
question of the issuance of the application shall then be placed upon the next
available agenda of the city council for action and approval.
      2.   The city manager shall, upon submitting an application for the use
of the city council chambers to the city council, circulate copies of the
application to each member of the city council with their regular agenda lists
together with any additional remarks he may have regarding the reasons that the
application is on the council's agenda, the basis of his questions and his
general recommendations as to the disposition of the application. Copies of his
remarks shall be distributed to the applicant as well.
      3.   Upon the submission to the city council by the city manager of a
question regarding the application for use of the city council chambers, the
council shall either approve or reject the application upon the face of the
application and the manager's remarks. The council may, upon motion of any
councilman, suspend its rules and the operation of these rules and permit
debate on the issue of the application or barring the applicant. The submission
of the application to the council shall not automatically entitle any person to
debate the question before the council.
   C.   The city manager shall keep a record or calendar of the dates for the
use of the city council chambers and shall keep such dates available for public
inspection.
   D.   The permission to use the city council chambers, given by the city
manager to any person shall be secondary and subject to any and all regular,
special or adjourned meetings of the city council and any regular, adjourned or
special meetings of any of the boards, committees or commissions whose
memberships are appointed by either the mayor with the advice and consent of
the city council or by the city manager. In the event that the meeting date of
the city council or any of its boards, commissions or committees, as heretofore
described, shall fall upon the date for which permission has been given for use
of the city council chambers of any person, the setting of such date for a
meeting by the city council or any of the boards, committees or commissions of
the city shall be deemed an automatic cancellation of such permission. It shall
be the duty of the applicant for use of the city council chambers, to keep
itself advised of the availability of the city council chambers,
notwithstanding the issuance of any permit or the allowance of any application.
   E.   All applications for the use of the city council chambers shall be
accompanied by a damage deposit of fifty dollars ($50.00). The balance of the
damage deposit shall be refunded to the person after deducting any expenses
incurred by the city for cleanup, repair or restoration of the city council
chambers after such use by any person hereafter allowed to use the chambers.
(Ord. 1085, 5-7-1974)
CHAPTER 9
CITY OWNED REAL ESTATE
SECTION:
1.9.1: Sale Of City Owned Real Estate
1.9.2: Agreements For Use Of City-Owned Real Estate And Property (Rep. by Ord.
25-O-26, 4-15-2025)
1.9.1: SALE OF CITY OWNED REAL ESTATE:
   A.   The city council may, by resolution or ordinance, authorize the
conveyance of real estate if it finds the real estate is no longer necessary,
appropriate, required for the use of, profitable to, or in the best interests
of the city. At such time the city council may also specify the specific use or
purpose to which they would like to see the real estate put.
   B.   Following such resolution or ordinance, but prior to a subsequent
council vote on any offer for the real estate, the following notice shall be
provided:
      1.   Notice of the proposal to sell shall be published one time in a
daily or weekly paper published in the city, at least thirty (30) days prior to
the passage of any resolution or ordinance approving the conveyance of real
estate. Such notice shall:
         a.   Solicit bids;
         b.   Contain an accurate description of the property which may include
a common street address and need not include a full metes and bounds legal
description;
         c.   State the specific use or purpose to which the city council would
like to see the real estate put, if any;
         d.   State the date on which bids will be opened by the city
administration.
      2.   Notice of the proposal to sell shall also be mailed, by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the owners of all property immediately
abutting the real estate proposed for sale, but not for property separated from
the real estate proposed for sale by any public right of way or other
intervening barrier between the property lines.
      3.   The city manager or his designee may provide notice to such other
third parties regarding the proposed real estate sale as, in the city manager's
discretion, would be in the best interest of the city to be invited to bid on
the real estate.
      4.   The city manager or his designee is authorized to open the bids on
the date specified in the notice and may formulate a recommendation for the
city council's consideration. This recommendation may be provided to the city
council in advance of the meeting at which the bids will be considered. In
formulating such a recommendation, if the city manager has not already done so,
the city manager or his designee may, but is not required to, obtain one or
more appraisals of the real estate or may otherwise consult with third parties
regarding the value or best use of the real estate.
   C.   Thereafter, the city council may accept the highest qualified bid or
any other bid determined to be in the best interest of the city or may reject
any and all bids by a majority vote of the members of the city council.
   D.   The city council may sell, purchase, accept or otherwise transfer real
estate from or to another unit of government in accordance with the Illinois
local government property transfer act 1  as presently exists or as may be
subsequently amended. (Ord. 17-O-21, 3-7-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
1.9.2: AGREEMENTS FOR USE OF CITY-OWNED REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTY:
(Rep. by Ord. 25-O-26, 4-15-2025)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2.1.1: Boards And Commissions Established
2.1.2: General Membership, Terms, Officers
2.1.3: General Meetings
2.1.4: General Powers And Duties
2.1.5: General Provisions Established
2.1.1: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS ESTABLISHED:
To provide for citizen participation in local municipal governance and advise
the city council, who serve as the sole municipal officers and corporate
authorities, there are established within the city of Woodstock the following
named boards and commissions:
   Arts Commission
   Board of building construction
   Board of police commissioners
   Board of library trustees
   Cultural and social awareness commission
   Electrical commission
   Environmental commission
   Historic preservation commission
   Opera house advisory commission
   Parks and recreation commission
   Plan commission
   Police pension board
   Zoning board of appeals
(Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012; amd. Ord. 21-O-23, 4-6-2021; Ord. 22-O-25, 4-19-2022;
Ord. 25-O-28, 5-6-2025)
2.1.2: GENERAL MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, OFFICERS:
   A.   The members of all established boards and commissions shall be
appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council.
   B.   All members, including the chair, of each established board and
commission shall be voting members of the respective board or commission.
   C.   The specific number of members for each established board and
commission shall be as prescribed by Illinois Compiled Statutes or the chapters
of this title.
   D.   The specific terms of members for each established board and commission
shall be as prescribed by Illinois Compiled Statutes or the chapters of this
title.
   E.   The terms of members of all established boards and commissions shall
expire on April 30 in the year of expiration or until such time as a successor
is appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council.
   F.   The members of all established boards and commissions may succeed
themselves.
   G.   The members of all established boards and commissions shall serve
without compensation.
   H.   The members of all established boards and commissions may be revoked by
a majority vote of the city council or by the mayor with the advice and consent
of the city council.
   I.   The members of all established boards and commissions shall not be in
violation of any provisions of this code and shall not have any outstanding or
delinquent debt owed to the city. The presence of such a violation or debt may
be grounds for revocation.
   J.   All vacancies on established boards and commissions, whether created by
death, resignation, or removal, shall be filled through appointment by the
mayor with the advice and consent of the city council, but only for the
unexpired portion of the vacated term.
   K.   All members of boards and commissions are subject to all of the city's
ethics rules including the gift ban act, the rules regarding prohibited
political activities and any other prohibitions relating to contracting with
the city.
   L.   Any member of an established board or commission having a personal or
professional pecuniary interest in an application before the body in public
hearing status shall recuse and disengage from any participation as a member.
   M.   The chair of each established board and commission shall be appointed
by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council unless otherwise
established by Illinois Compiled Statutes and thereby identified in the
respective chapter of this title.
   N.   The chair of each established board and commission may be revoked at
the sole discretion of the mayor unless otherwise established by Illinois
Compiled Statutes.
   O.   A vice chair shall be elected by the appointed members of each
established board and commission from among its respective membership at the
first meeting of each year, and herein defined as the first meeting after the
beginning of each fiscal year.
   P.   A secretary responsible for maintaining minutes and records of all
regular and special meetings of each established board and commission shall be
designated as prescribed in the chapters of this title. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-
2008)
2.1.3: GENERAL MEETINGS:
   A.   Each established board and commission shall hold regular meetings as
prescribed in the chapters of this title and in no case, less than once each
year.
   B.   Special meetings of each established board and commission may be called
if deemed necessary by the chair or a majority of the members of the respective
board or commission.
   C.   For the purposes of conducting business, the quorum for each
established board and commission shall be a simple majority of the board
members or commissioners currently appointed and serving.
   D.   Attendance or absence of board members or commissioners shall be
recorded in the minutes of every regular and special meeting of every
established board and commission. The absence of any appointed member from
three (3) consecutive meetings shall be cause for removal by the mayor.
   E.   Approved minutes of all regular and special meetings of each
established board and commission shall be provided to the city council in a
timely fashion.
   F.   All regular and special meetings of each established board and
commission shall be held in compliance with the Illinois open meetings act.
   G.   Except in cases of emergencies, all notices for meetings, including
those for special, nonemergency meetings, shall be provided at least forty
eight (48) hours prior to the time set for the meeting and in the manner
required by the open meetings act. It shall be the responsibility of the city
manager or designee to provide such notice. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
   H.   The public shall be permitted to comment before each board in the same
manner as provided in section
1.5.8 of this code except that for any public hearings, the public shall have
the right to participate in the hearing in the manner established by the chair
of that board. (Ord. 15-O-20, 4-7-2015)
2.1.4: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The members of the established boards and commissions in their capacity
as board members and commissioners shall not be recognized as officers of the
city. The city council serves as the sole municipal officers and corporate
authorities.
   B.   The established boards and commissions are vested with the general
powers and duties prescribed by the chapters of this title on behalf of the
city of Woodstock.
   C.   Additional powers and duties may be set forth from time to time as
provided and directed by the city council.
   D.   Additional powers and duties specified in the Illinois Compiled
Statutes/Illinois municipal code shall also apply for each board and
commission.
   E.   In conducting city business, the members of all established boards and
commissions shall comport themselves in an ethical, professional manner.
   F.   Regulations or guidelines for the conduct of meetings, hearings, or
special projects may be developed by each of the established boards and
commissions and, after approval by the city council, shall be in full force and
effect upon filing with the city clerk. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.1.5: GENERAL PROVISIONS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The city shall provide all reasonable assistance to all established
boards and commissions in furtherance of the prescribed duties set forth by
Illinois Compiled Statutes or the chapters of this title.
   B.   Neither board or commission nor any member of a board or commission
shall give direction to any member of the city staff unless otherwise
established by Illinois Compiled Statutes and thereby identified in the
respective chapter of this title.
   C.   All requests for assistance are to be conveyed to the city manager or
the designated agent of the city as specifically set forth in the chapters of
this title.
   D.   Necessary assistants, consultants, or advisors may be employed at the
discretion of the city manager or as otherwise provided by the city council.
   E.   All recommendations of an established board or commission shall be
referred to the city council for consideration and implementation unless
otherwise prescribed by Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   F.   Neither board or commission nor any member of a board or commission
shall have the authority to make any expenditure, or cause to be made any
purchase or contract, that directly or indirectly results in a financial
liability or lien against the city, without the express prior approval of the
mayor and city council unless otherwise established by Illinois Compiled
Statutes and thereby identified in the respective chapter of this title.
   G.   In the event the provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes/Illinois
municipal code and the provisions of this title conflict, the Illinois Compiled
Statutes/Illinois municipal code shall apply. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
2.2.1: Board Established
2.2.2: Membership, Terms, Officers
2.2.3: Meetings
2.2.4: Powers And Duties
2.2.5: General Provisions
2.2.1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
To provide for the safety and welfare of residents through safe, quality
building construction and building code enforcement, the board of building
construction is hereby established in the city. (Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008)
2.2.2: MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, OFFICERS:
   A.   Board Membership: The board shall consist of four (4) members plus an
appointed chair. One member shall be appointed as the representative of the
Woodstock fire/rescue district and at least three (3) members shall reside
within the corporate boundaries of the city of Woodstock.
Voting members shall be appointed recognizing the municipal interest of
providing cross sector representation from the building trades. Therefore,
consideration should be given to the contractor/construction, electrical and
plumbing sectors.
All members and the chair shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council.
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office for all members, including the
chair, shall be for three (3) years.
   C.   Vacancy: Any vacancy shall be filled through appointment by the mayor
with the advice and consent of the city council, but only for the unexpired
portion of the vacated term.
   D.   Chair: The chair shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council in May of each year. It shall be the duty of the
chair to conduct all meetings of the board and to represent the board at city
council meetings as from time to time may be necessary.
   E.   Vice Chair: The board shall elect a vice chair from among its
membership at the first meeting of each year.
   F.   Secretary: The appointed staff liaison shall serve as secretary and
maintain minutes and records of regular and special meetings and regularly
provide such records to the city council. (Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008)
2.2.3: MEETINGS:
   A.   The board shall meet from time to time as may be determined by the
chair or a majority of the board.
   B.   All meetings shall be held in compliance with the Illinois open
meetings act. (Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008)
2.2.4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The board shall serve only in an advisory capacity to the Woodstock
city council and shall comply with all applicable provisions of Illinois state
statutes and this code.
   B.   Specific duties of the board shall be limited to providing for the
safety and welfare of residents through safe, quality building construction and
building code enforcement in the city of Woodstock by:
      1.   Assisting the building and zoning officers of the city in
interpreting the specific ordinances for which they are responsible.
      2.   Recommending to the city council amendments to building codes and
relevant city ordinances as may, from time to time, be appropriate.
      3.   Considering applications for and the results of new materials and
methods testing. (Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008)
      4.   Preparing and disseminating educational materials regarding city
building codes and inspection procedures. The board shall not, however, have
the authority to consider appeals of orders, decisions, or determinations
regarding noncompliance with the city's building codes, the issuance of
citations for building code violations, or the adjudication of such violations.
      5.   Fostering communication between the public and city regarding
ongoing activities of the board.
      6.   Arranging and conducting any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of increasing public understanding. (Ord.
08-0-68, 11-4-2008; amd. Ord. 09-0-24, 4-21-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
2.2.5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city shall provide all reasonable assistance to the board of
building construction in order to assist the board with its various duties. All
requests for assistance are to be conveyed to the city manager for appropriate
response by the city. Neither the board nor any of its members shall give
direction to any member of the city staff and all recommendations of the board
shall be referred to the city council for consideration and implementation by
the city.
   B.   The board shall not have the authority to make any expenditure, or
cause to be made any purchase or contract that directly or indirectly results
in a financial liability or lien against the city, without the express prior
approval of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF LIBRARY TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2.3.1: Board Established
2.3.2: Membership And Terms
2.3.3: Meetings
2.3.4: Powers And Duties
2.3.5: General Provisions
2.3.6: Bond Requirements
2.3.1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
   A.   To provide and maintain a public library and associated services for
the benefit of residents, a Board of Trustees of the Woodstock Public Library
is hereby established in the City.
   B.   For purposes of reference and financial accounting within the
Municipality, the Board of Trustees of the Woodstock Public Library shall also
be known as, and shall serve as one in the same as, the Board of Library
Trustees.
   C.   The board shall have the following specific responsibilities:
      1.   To adopt and revise policies so that proper courses of action may be
taken;
      2.   To see that the library has the necessary funds for proper
administration of the library; and
      3.   To see that the public understands the goals and objectives of the
library. (Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008)
2.3.2: MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS:
   A.   Board Membership: The Board of Library Trustees of the Woodstock Public
Library, aka, Board of Library Trustees, shall consist of nine (9) members, all
of whom shall reside within the corporate boundaries of the City of Woodstock,
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City
Council, and chosen with reference to their fitness for such office. No more
than one member of the City Council shall be at any one time a member of the
board.
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office for all members shall be for three
(3) years.
   C.   Vacancy: Any vacancy shall be filled through appointment by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council, but only for the unexpired
portion of the vacated term.
   D.   Officers: The officers of the board shall be a President, Vice
President, Secretary and Treasurer who shall all be elected at the first
regular meeting of the board following the annual appointment of Trustees.
   E.   President: It shall be the duty of the President to preside at all
meetings of the board, appoint all committees, act as ex officio member of all
committees, and represent the board at City Council meetings as from time to
time may be necessary.
   F.   Vice President: It shall be the duty of the Vice President to perform
the duties of the President as from time to time may be necessary in the
absence of the President.
   G.   Secretary: It shall be the duty of the Secretary to notify each member
of the board of all regular and special meetings, including the statement of
purpose of each meeting; to maintain minutes and records of regular and special
meetings; and regularly provide such records to the City Council.
   H.   Treasurer: It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to report on the
status of funds received by the library and to review their proper
disbursement. (Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008)
2.3.3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Meetings of the board shall be held no less than monthly on the second
Thursday of each calendar month in the library or at such time and place as the
board may determine. (Ord. 19-O-07, 1-15-2019)
   B.   Additional special meetings may be called if deemed necessary by the
President, Secretary or any two (2) members of the board, provided that notice
of the meeting is provided to all members of the board at least forty eight
(48) hours prior to the time set for the meeting. The notice of a special
meeting shall state the purpose of the meeting and no business other than that
stated in the notice shall be transacted.
   C.   The board shall cause to have posted said notice of a special meeting
at all public library facilities maintained by the board and not less than one
other public place within the City at least forty eight (48) hours prior to the
time set for the special meeting.
   D.   All meetings shall be held in compliance with the Illinois Open
Meetings Act. (Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008)
2.3.4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Board of Library Trustees of the Woodstock Public Library, aka, Board of
Library Trustees, shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To make and adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations for their own
guidance and for the government of the library as may be expedient, not
inconsistent with this chapter.
   B.   To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all monies collected
for the library and deposited to the credit of the Library Fund.
   C.   To have the exclusive control of the construction of any library
building and of the supervision, care, and custody of the grounds, rooms or
buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that purpose.
   D.   To purchase or lease real or personal property, and to construct an
appropriate building or buildings for the use of the library, using, at the
board's option, contracts providing for all or part of the consideration to be
paid through installments at stated intervals during a certain period not to
exceed twenty (20) years with interest at any lawful rate for municipal
corporations in the State of Illinois on the unpaid balance or such legally
applicable rate in effect at the time such contract is made, whichever is
higher, except that contracts which call for installment purchases of real
estate shall provide for not more than seventy five percent (75%) of the total
consideration to be repaid by installments.
   E.   To remodel or reconstruct a building erected or purchased by the board
when such building is not adapted to its purposes or needs.
   F.   To sell or otherwise dispose of real or personal property that it no
longer deems necessary or useful for library purposes and to lease to others
any real property not immediately useful but for which plans for ultimate use
have been or will be adopted but the city council shall have the first right to
purchase or lease such property.
   G.   To appoint and to fix the compensation of a qualified librarian who
shall have the authority to hire such other employees as may be necessary, to
fix their compensation, to remove such appointees, subject to the approval of
the board and in accordance to Illinois state statutes, and to retain counsel
and professional consultants as needed.
   H.   To contract with any library association, school board, or any city,
village, incorporated town, township, county or district library board in the
state for furnishing or receiving library services including, but not limited
to, contracts for such library services as participants in any library system
formed pursuant to law and as participants in interstate library compacts, and
to contract to supply library services and for the expenditure of any federal
or state funds made available to any county, municipality, township or the
state of Illinois for library purposes.
   I.   To join with the board or boards of any one or more libraries of any
city, incorporated town, village, township, county, or district in maintaining
libraries, or for the maintenance of a common library for such cities,
incorporated towns, villages, townships, county or districts upon such terms as
may be agreed upon by and between the boards.
   J.   To enter into contracts and to take title to any property acquired by
it for library purposes by the name and style of the board of library trustees
of the city of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois, and by that name to sue and
be sued.
   K.   To exclude from the use of the library any person who unlawfully
violates the rules prescribed by the board.
   L.   To extend the privileges and use of the library to persons residing
outside the city, incorporated town, village or township upon such terms and
conditions as the board may from time to time by its regulations prescribe and
to impose a nonresident fee for such privileges and uses comparable to the cost
to residents of such entity.
   M.   To exercise the power of eminent domain subject to the prior approval
of the city council as provided by law.
   N.   To join the public library as a member in the Illinois Library
Association and the American Library Association, nonprofit, nonpolitical
associations as designed by the federal internal revenue service, having the
purpose of library development and librarianship; to provide for the payment of
annual membership dues, fees and assessments and act by, through and in the
name of such instrumentality by providing and disseminating information and
research services, employing personnel and doing any and all other acts for the
purpose of improving library development.
   O.   To invest funds pursuant to Illinois state statutes.
   P.   To lease from any public building commission created pursuant to the
provisions of the public building commission act, any real or personal property
for library purposes for a period of time not to exceed twenty (20) years.
   Q.   To pay for the use of such leased property in accordance with the terms
of the lease and with the provisions of the public building commission act as
now or hereafter amended.
   R.   To enter into such a lease without making a previous appropriation for
the expense thereby incurred according to the limitations provided by law.
   S.   To pay all or part of the cost of maintaining and owning any property
leased from the public building commission for the term or within the period
provided by law. (Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008)
2.3.5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city shall provide all reasonable assistance to the board of
trustees of the Woodstock public library, a.k.a., board of library trustees, in
order to assist the board with its various duties. All requests for assistance
are to be conveyed to the director of the library for appropriate response by
the city. Neither the board nor any of its members shall give direction to any
member of the city staff. Unless otherwise set forth herein or established by
Illinois state statutes, all recommendations of the board shall be referred to
the city council for consideration and implementation by the city.
   B.   Except as specifically stated in this chapter, the board shall not have
the authority to make any expenditure, or cause to be made any purchase or
contract that directly or indirectly results in a financial liability or lien
against the city, without the express prior approval of the mayor and city
council. (Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008)
2.3.6: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Pursuant to the City's home rule authority, the library shall not be required
to provide a separate surety bond or insurance coverage amounts regarding the
safe keeping and payment of library funds received (as otherwise required
pursuant to 75 ILCS 5/4-9), provided that the City Manager concludes that the
City maintains reasonable insurance coverage to protect the library against
potential financial loss as a result of a financial crime by an employee. (Ord.
19-O-60, 7-16-2019)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2.4.1: Board Established
2.4.2: Membership And Terms
2.4.3: Meetings
2.4.4: Powers And Duties
2.4.5: General Provisions
2.4.1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
To provide for the safety and protection of residents through the employment of
highly qualified and professional sworn officers of the police department, and
in accordance with Illinois state statutes, the board of police commissioners
is hereby established in the city. (Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008; amd. Ord. 21-O-23,
4-6-2021)
2.4.2: MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS:
   A.   Board Membership: The board of police commissioners shall consist of
three (3) members, including an appointed chair, all of which shall reside
within the corporate boundaries of the city of Woodstock. All members,
including the chair, shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council.
   B.   Officers: As an exception to subsection
 2.1.4A of this title, the board of police commissioners shall be considered
officers of the city and shall file an oath and a fidelity bond in such amount
as from time to time may be required by the city council.
   C.   Term Of Office: The term of office for all members, including the
chair, shall be for three (3) years.
   D.   Vacancy: Any vacancy shall be filled through appointment by the mayor
with the advice and consent of the city council, but only for the unexpired
portion of the vacated term.
   E.   Chair: The chair shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council in May of each year. It shall be the duty of the
chair to conduct all meetings of the commission and to represent the commission
at city council meetings as from time to time may be necessary.
   F.   Vice Chair: The commission shall elect a vice chair from among its
membership at the first meeting of each year.
   G.   Secretary: The administrative assistant to the chief of police or
designee shall serve as secretary and maintain minutes and records of regular
and special meetings and regularly provide such records to the city council.
(Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008; amd. Ord. 21-O-23, 4-6-2021)
2.4.3: MEETINGS:
   A.   The board shall meet from time to time as may be determined by the
chair or a majority of the board.
   B.   Notice of a board meeting shall be given in writing to each member of
the board at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the time set for the
meeting. Additionally, notice of the meeting shall be posted in a conspicuous
place in the police department not less than twenty four (24) hours prior to
any board meeting. (Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008)
2.4.4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of police commissioners shall have the following powers and duties
pertaining to sworn members of the police department:
   A.   To make and promulgate rules and regulations for the conduct of
examinations for original appointments, conduct of examinations for promotions,
and conduct of hearings on charges brought against a member of the police
department.
   B.   To conduct examinations for original appointments and promotions.
   C.   To make all original appointments to the police department and
appointments to promotions within the police department pursuant to
examinations.
   D.   To conduct hearings on charges brought against any member of the police
department.
   E.   Such other and further powers as may from time to time be authorized by
the Illinois general assembly.
   F.   Exception For Certified Police Officer Entry Candidates:
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section regarding original
appointments made by the Board of Police Commissioners, the City Manager may
appoint any applicant to the Police Department who has at least two (2) years
previous full-time experience as a police officer (known as a Certified Police
Officer Entry Candidate), in coordination with the City's Department of Human
Resources and the Chief of Police. Such appointment shall be instead of any
other applicant listed on the eligibility list of qualified candidates for
initial entry or otherwise considered by the Board of Police Commissioners.
(Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008; amd. Ord. 19-O-83, 10-15-2019; Ord. 21-O-23, 4-6-
2021)
2.4.5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city shall provide all reasonable assistance to the board of police
commissioners in order to assist the board with its various duties. All
requests for assistance are to be conveyed to the chief of police for
appropriate response by the city. Neither the board nor any of its members
shall give direction to any member of the city staff. Unless otherwise set
forth herein or established by Illinois state statutes, all recommendations of
the board shall be referred to the city council for consideration and
implementation by the city.
   B.   The board shall not have the authority to make any expenditure, or
cause to be made any purchase or contract that directly or indirectly results
in a financial liability or lien against the city, without the express prior
approval of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008; amd. Ord. 21-
O-23, 4-6-2021)
CHAPTER 5
CULTURAL AND SOCIAL AWARENESS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2.5.1: Commission Established
2.5.2: Membership, Terms, Officers
2.5.3: Meetings
2.5.4: Powers And Duties
2.5.5: General Provisions
2.5.1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
To further the goals of eliminating prejudice and discrimination, enhancing
awareness of the benefits of a culturally diverse community, and awareness of
current social issues within a vital, growing community, a Cultural and Social
Awareness Commission is hereby established in the City. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-
2012)
2.5.2: MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, OFFICERS:
   A.   Commission Membership: The commission shall consist of four (4) members
plus an appointed Chair. At least three (3) members shall reside within the
corporate boundaries of the City of Woodstock. All members and the Chair shall
be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
      This advisory commission promotes mutual understanding and respect and
furthers the goals of eliminating prejudice and discrimination, enhancing
awareness of the benefits of a culturally diverse community, and awareness of
current social issues within a vital, growing community. This Commission meets
quarterly Woodstock City Hall.
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office for all members, including the
Chair, shall be for three (3) years.
   C.   Vacancy: Any vacancy shall be filled through appointment by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council, but only for the unexpired
portion of the vacated term.
   D.   Chair: The Chair shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council in May of each year. It shall be the duty of the
Chair to conduct all meetings of the commission and to represent the commission
at City Council meetings as from time to time may be necessary.
   E.   Vice Chair: The commission shall elect a Vice Chair from among its
membership at the first meeting of each year.
   F.   Secretary: The City Clerk or designee shall serve as Secretary and
maintain minutes and records of regular and special meetings and regularly
provide such records to the City Council. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012; amd. Ord.
17-O-47, 5-16-2017; Ord. 24-O-37, 7-16-2024)
2.5.3: MEETINGS:
   A.   The commission shall meet no less than quarterly in January, April,
July and October.
Additional meetings may be called if deemed necessary by the Chair or a
majority of the commission.
   B.   All meetings shall be held in compliance with the Illinois Open
Meetings Act. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
2.5.4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The commission shall serve only in an advisory capacity to the
Woodstock City Council and shall comply with all applicable provisions of
Illinois State Statutes and this Code.
   B.   The commission shall serve to encourage and ensure equality of
opportunity for all people of Woodstock, regardless of race, color, national
origin, religion, sex, disability, age, marital status or sexual orientation
and to promote awareness of current social issues affecting the well being of
the community and its residents. Social issues may include, but shall not be
limited to, issues of underage consumption of alcohol, the abuse of alcohol and
other drugs, synthetic drugs, safe driving and good neighbor initiatives.
   C.   Specific duties of the commission shall be limited to promoting
cultural diversity education, awareness of current social issues, and
associated outreach, recognition and celebration in the City of Woodstock
through:
      1.   Preparation and dissemination of promotional and educational
materials regarding the City, its services, programs and opportunities.
      2.   Preparation and dissemination of promotional and educational
materials regarding the impact of diverse cultural contributions and current
social issues to the richness and well being of the community.
      3.   Developing and executing a plan of action for fostering
communication with and encouraging participation by residents of all segments
of the community. The plan may include, but shall not be limited to, an active
Sister City Program and New Americans' Initiative, as well as joint dialogue
and programming with Woodstock Community Unit School District 200 and other
agencies and organizations in McHenry County and broader community.
      4.   Serving as a resource for institutions and organizations concerned
with social awareness, cultural diversity and equality.
      5.   Establishing and executing ongoing recognition programs to foster
and enhance individual, organizational, public and private efforts to eliminate
prejudice and discrimination and promote diversity and social awareness.
      6.   Establishing and executing ongoing programs designed to celebrate
diversity and its unique and positive impact on the fabric of the community.
      7.   Preparing and submitting an annual report of its activities to the
City Council.
      8.   Fostering communication between the public and City regarding its
ongoing activities.
      9.   Arranging and conducting any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of increasing public understanding.
   D.   The commission shall not debate, participate or engage in the provision
of social services as such services distinctly do not fall under the purview of
this municipal government. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
2.5.5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city shall provide all reasonable assistance to the cultural and
social awareness commission in order to assist the commission with its various
duties. All requests for assistance are to be conveyed to the city manager for
appropriate response by the city. Neither the commission nor any of its members
shall give direction to any member of the city staff and all recommendations of
the commission shall be referred to the city council for consideration and
implementation by the city.
   B.   The commission shall not have the authority to make any expenditure, or
cause to be made any purchase or contract that directly or indirectly results
in a financial liability or lien against the city, without the express prior
approval of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
CHAPTER 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 25-O-28, 5-6-2025)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTRICAL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2.7.1: Commission Established
2.7.2: Membership, Terms, Officers
2.7.3: Meetings
2.7.4: Powers And Duties
2.7.5: General Provisions
2.7.1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
To provide for the safety and welfare of residents through safe, quality
electrical installation and conveyance and code enforcement, the electrical
commission is hereby established in the city. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.7.2: MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, OFFICERS:
   A.   Commission Membership: The electrical commission shall consist of three
(3) members plus an appointed chair. The chief electrical inspector shall be
one of the members and at least two (2) of the members shall reside within the
corporate boundaries of the city of Woodstock.
Members shall be appointed recognizing the municipal interest of providing
cross representation from the associated trades. Therefore, consideration
should be given to the inclusion of a professional electrical engineer, an
electrical contractor, a journeyman electrician, an electrical supplier, and a
representative of the Woodstock fire/rescue district.
All members and the chair shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office for all members, including the
chair, shall be for three (3) years.
   C.   Vacancy: Any vacancy shall be filled through appointment by the mayor
with the advice and consent of the city council, but only for the unexpired
portion of the vacated term.
   D.   Chair: The chair shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council in May of each year. It shall be the duty of the
chair to conduct all meetings of the commission and to represent the commission
at city council meetings as from time to time may be necessary.
   E.   Vice Chair: The commission shall elect a vice chair from among its
membership at the first meeting of each year.
   F.   Secretary: The appointed staff liaison shall serve as secretary and
maintain minutes and records of regular and special meetings and regularly
provide such records to the city council. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.7.3: MEETINGS:
   A.   The electrical commission shall meet from time to time as may be
determined by the chair or a majority of the commission.
   B.   The chief electrical inspector or designee shall attend all meetings of
the commission. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.7.4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The commission shall serve only in an advisory capacity to the
Woodstock city council and shall comply with all applicable provisions of
Illinois state statutes and this code.
   B.   Specific duties of the commission shall be limited to providing for the
safety and welfare of residents through safe, quality electrical installation
and conveyance and code enforcement in the city of Woodstock by:
      1.   Assisting the chief electrical inspector of the city in interpreting
the specific ordinances for which they are responsible.
      2.   Recommending to the city council safe and practical standards and
specifications for the installation, alteration and use of electrical equipment
in the city designed to meet the necessities and conditions of the
municipality. Such standards and specifications shall not be effective until
adopted as an ordinance by the city council.
      3.   Recommending reasonable rules and regulations governing the issuance
of permits and fees to be paid. Such rules, regulations and fees shall not be
effective until adopted as an ordinance by the city council. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-
4-2008)
      4.   Preparing and disseminating educational materials regarding city
electrical standards and inspection procedures. The commission shall not,
however, have the authority to consider appeals of orders, decisions, or
determinations regarding noncompliance with the city's electrical codes and
standards, the issuance of citations for violations of said electrical codes
and standards, or the adjudication of such violations.
      5.   Fostering communication between the public and city regarding its
ongoing activities.
      6.   Arranging and conducting any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of increasing public understanding. (Ord.
08-O-68, 11-4-2008; amd. Ord. 09-O-24, 4-21-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
2.7.5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city shall provide all reasonable assistance to the electrical
commission in order to assist the commission with its various duties. All
requests for assistance are to be conveyed to the city manager for appropriate
response by the city. Neither the commission nor any of its members shall give
direction to any member of the city staff and all recommendations of the
commission shall be referred to the city council for consideration and
implementation by the city.
   B.   The commission shall not have the authority to make any expenditure, or
cause to be made any purchase or contract that directly or indirectly results
in a financial liability or lien against the city, without the express prior
approval of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
CHAPTER 8
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2.8.1: Commission Established
2.8.2: Membership, Terms, Officers
2.8.3: Meetings
2.8.4: Powers And Duties
2.8.5: General Provisions
2.8.1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
The environmental commission is hereby established in the city. (Ord. 08-O-68,
11-4-2008)
2.8.2: MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, OFFICERS:
   A.   Commission Membership: The commission shall consist of four (4) members
plus an appointed chair. All members shall be residents of McHenry County. Two
(2) members and the chair shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council and the remainder shall include one representative
selected by and from each of the following community based constituent groups:
McHenry County Defenders
Land Conservancy Of McHenry County
Of the two (2) members and the chair appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council, none may be members of the governing boards of the
above identified constituent groups. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office for all members, including the
chair, shall be for three (3) years.
   C.   Vacancy: Any vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the appointing
authority, but only for the unexpired portion of the vacated term.
   D.   Chair: The chair shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council in May of each year. It shall be the duty of the
chair to conduct all meetings of the commission and to represent the commission
at city council meetings as from time to time may be necessary.
   E.   Vice Chair: The commission shall elect a vice chair from among its
membership at the first meeting of each year.
   F.   Secretary: The city clerk or designee shall serve as secretary and
maintain minutes and records of regular and special meetings and regularly
provide such records to the city council. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.8.3: MEETINGS:
   A.   The commission shall meet from time to time as may be determined by the
chair or a majority of the commission.
   B.   All meetings shall be held in compliance with the Illinois open
meetings act. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.8.4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The commission shall serve only in an advisory capacity to the Woodstock city
council and shall comply with all applicable provisions of Illinois state
statutes and this code. Specific duties of the commission shall be limited to:
   A.   Prepare and recommend to the city council an environmental plan,
looking to the present and future development and growth of the city. Such plan
should include and identify, in conformance with the comprehensive plan of the
city of Woodstock, open spaces, including municipal parks and identified
conservation areas, wetlands and water recharge areas, and forests.
   B.   Prepare and recommend to the city council from time to time such
changes in the plan as may be deemed necessary by the council or the
environmental commission, but not less often than once every five (5) years.
   C.   Prepare and recommend to the city council from time to time,
recommendations for specific improvements, additions or deletions to the plan.
   D.   Provide input and advice to the city council regarding contracts
between the city and conservation management organizations and associated
management plans.
   E.   Provide input and advice to the city council on issues referred to the
commission by specific action of the city council and associated with specific
USEPA or IEPA monitoring or oversight projects.
   F.   Provide input and advice to the city council on issues referred to the
commission by specific action of the city council on topics such as wetland
remediation, groundwater regeneration and quality, the municipal use of
insecticides for control of mosquitoes and other insect pests, tree inventories
and maintenance.
   G.   Foster communication between the public and city regarding ongoing
environmental protection and oversight efforts.
   H.   Arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its activities
for the general purpose of increasing public understanding. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-
4-2008)
2.8.5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city shall provide all reasonable assistance to the environmental
commission in order to assist the commission with its various duties. All
requests for assistance are to be conveyed to the city manager for appropriate
response by the city. Neither the commission nor any of its members shall give
direction to any member of the city staff and all recommendations of the
commission shall be referred to the city council for consideration and
implementation by the city.
   B.   The commission shall not have the authority to make any expenditure, or
cause to be made any purchase or contract that directly or indirectly results
in a financial liability or lien against the city, without the express prior
approval of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
CHAPTER 9
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2.9.1: Commission Established
2.9.2: Membership, Terms, Officers
2.9.3: Meetings
2.9.4: Powers And Duties
2.9.5: Applications Affecting Landmark Or Historic Preservation District Status
2.9.6: Appeal Process
2.9.7: General Provisions
2.9.1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
To promote the preservation of historically significant buildings and
structures within the municipality and pursue the objectives and procedures
contained in this code, the historic preservation commission is hereby
established in the city. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.9.2: MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, OFFICERS:
   A.   Commission Membership: The commission shall consist of four (4) members
plus an appointed chair. At least three (3) members shall live within the
corporate boundaries of the city of Woodstock.
All members and the chair shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council.
All members shall be selected on the basis of their demonstrated interest,
competence or knowledge of historic preservation. Other criteria for selection
may include vocation, employment, community interests, artistic skill, or
special training or knowledge in the development of the city.
Further, members shall be appointed recognizing the municipal interest of
providing cross sector representation from within the community. Therefore,
reasonable consideration should be given to professionals in the disciplines of
history, architectural history, architecture planning, archaeology, historic
preservation or related field; property or business owners within the historic
downtown area; real estate professionals; and representatives from the fields
of engineering and construction. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office for all members, including the
chair, shall be for three (3) years.
   C.   Vacancy: Any vacancy shall be filled through appointment by the mayor
with the advice and consent of the city council, but only for the unexpired
portion of the vacated term.
   D.   Chair: The chair shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council in May of each year. It shall be the duty of the
chair to conduct all meetings of the commission and to represent the commission
at city council meetings as from time to time may be necessary.
   E.   Vice Chair: The commission shall elect a vice chair from among its
membership at the first meeting of each year.
   F.   Secretary: The city clerk or designee shall serve as secretary and
maintain minutes and records of regular and special meetings and regularly
provide such records to the city council. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.9.3: MEETINGS:
   A.   The commission shall meet from time to time as may be determined by the
chair or a majority of the commission.
   B.   All meetings shall be held in compliance with the Illinois open
meetings act. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.9.4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The historic preservation commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
   A.   Work to establish greater public interest and participation in historic
preservation within the city.
   B.   Formulate standards and regulations for the evaluation of proposed
landmark and historic preservation district designation and rules of procedure
for application and hearings. Such regulations and rules of procedure shall be
submitted to the city council and shall be approved by the city council in
advance of their application to specific projects.
   C.   Prepare and recommend to the city council from time to time such
changes in standards, regulations and rules as may be deemed necessary by the
city council or the commission.
   D.   Develop and conduct an ongoing survey of the city, to identify
buildings, structures, areas, sites and landscapes that are of historic,
archaeological, architectural, or scenic significance, and, therefore, are
potential landmarks or historic preservation districts.
   E.   Hold public hearings and recommend to the city council the designation
of landmarks and historic preservation districts identified in the survey.
   F.   Compile and retain information concerning landmarks and historic
preservation districts identified and recommended for designation. This shall
include descriptions of the landmarks and historic preservation districts and
the characteristics that meet the standards for designation.
   G.   Keep a register of all designated landmarks and historic preservation
districts and prepare, update and publish a map or maps showing the locations
and exact boundaries of proposed and designated landmarks and historic
preservation districts, and, if the commission so chooses, the locations and/or
boundaries of designated McHenry County, state or national landmarks or
districts.
   H.   Establish an appropriate system of markers and plaques for all
designated landmarks and historic preservation districts, and to confer
recognition upon the owners of landmarks and property within historic
preservation districts by means of certificates, plaques and markers.
   I.   Nominate landmarks and historic preservation districts to any state or
national register of historic places.
   J.   Advise and assist owners of landmarks and property within the historic
preservation districts on physical and financial aspects of preservation,
renovation, rehabilitation and reuse, and on procedures of any state or any
national register of historic places.
   K.   Inform and educate the citizens of the city concerning the historic,
archaeological, architectural and scenic heritage of the city by publishing
appropriate maps, newsletters, brochures and pamphlets, and by holding programs
and seminars.
   L.   Develop specific criteria and guidelines for the proper alteration,
construction, demolition or removal of landmarks, or of property within a
historic preservation district. Such criteria and guidelines shall be submitted
to the city council and shall be approved by the city council in advance of
their application to specific projects.
   M.   Consider certificate of hardship applications that would allow the
performance of work for which a certificate of appropriateness has been denied
pursuant to this code.
   N.   Consider the issuance of certificates of appropriateness for category
2, major projects, and appeals when applications for certificates of
appropriateness for category 1, minor projects, are denied.
   O.   Review proposed amendments to zoning regulations, applications for
special use permits and applications for zoning variations that affect any
landmark or historic preservation district. Notice of such proposed actions
shall be transmitted to the commission for review prior to the hearing date
before the plan commission or the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-
2008)
   P.   Testify before all boards and commissions, including the plan
commission, zoning board of appeals, board of building construction and the
city council, on any matter affecting potential or designated landmarks or
historic preservation districts. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008; amd. Ord. 12-O-21,
3-20-2012)
   Q.   Periodically review the city's comprehensive plan, building codes and
Woodstock zoning ordinance; develop and present recommendations for the
preservation component for inclusion in the comprehensive plan or amendments to
the Woodstock zoning ordinance and/or building codes, if determined to be
appropriate for the protection and continued use of landmarks or property
within historic preservation districts.
   R.   Periodically monitor designated landmarks and historic preservation
districts for demolition by neglect.
   S.   Monitor and notify the state historic preservation officer of any
actual or proposed demolition or actual or proposed major alteration affecting
any property in its jurisdiction listed in the Illinois register of historic
places or the national register of historic places.
   T.   Be represented at not less than one informational or educational
meeting per year, approved by the state preservation officer, pertaining to the
work and functions of the commission or to historic preservation.
   U.   Submit an annual report to the Illinois historic preservation agency as
part of the certified local government program.
   V.   Periodically, at its discretion, audit the community development
department's regulations, standards and rules for approving category 1, minor
project, applications and report to the city council the results of its audit
and make recommendations to the city council with respect to the review.
   W.   Such additional powers and duties provided to municipal governments by
Illinois state statutes for historic preservation, subject to final approval by
the city council. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.9.5: APPLICATIONS AFFECTING LANDMARK OR HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT
STATUS:
All applications for construction, alteration, removal or demolition affecting
landmarks or property within historic preservation districts shall first be
submitted to the city's community and economic development department for
review and determination. Determination shall be made in writing with findings
of fact. In addition, the community and economic development department shall
make recommendations for the change, alteration, or variation of any
application so the applicant is aware of what corrections need to be made to
bring the application into accord with city, state and national regulations.
(Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.9.6: APPEAL PROCESS:
   A.   Any applicant or other person aggrieved with the findings of the
community and economic development department may appeal to the commission by
filing a notice of appeal with the city manager within ten (10) days after
notification of the department's decision. The city manager shall set a date
for hearing before the commission not less than five (5) days nor more than
thirty (30) days from the date of notice of appeal. The city manager shall
notify the chair of the commission; the applicant for a category 1, minor
project, certificate of appropriateness approval; the appellant; and any other
person having an interest in the proceedings.
   B.   Following the hearing, the commission shall approve or disapprove the
application under appeal with findings of fact. A simple majority vote of the
commission shall be required to overturn any decision of the city manager. The
commission shall also make suggestions for any changes, alterations or
variations of a disapproved application so the applicant is advised of what
corrections may be made to bring the application into accord.
   C.   The commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings and shall also
keep records of its examinations and other official actions. Findings of fact
shall be included in the minutes for each case and the commission's reasons for
its recommendation to the city council to grant or deny each application shall
be specified. Every rule, regulation, order, requirement, decision and/or
determination of the commission shall immediately be filed in the office of the
city clerk and shall be a matter of public record.
   D.   Any applicant or other person aggrieved with the findings of the
commission may appeal to the city council by filing a notice of appeal with the
city manager within ten (10) days after notification of the commission's
decision. The city manager shall set a date for hearing the appeal before the
city council not less than five (5) days nor more than thirty (30) days from
the date of the filing of the notice of appeal. The city manager shall notify
the chair of the commission; the applicant; the appellant; and any other person
having an interest in the proceedings. No vote or decision of the commission
shall be overridden except by a simple majority vote of the city council. (Ord.
08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.9.7: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city shall provide all reasonable assistance to the historic
preservation commission in order to assist the commission with its various
duties. All requests for assistance are to be conveyed to the city manager for
appropriate response by the city. Neither the commission nor any of its members
shall give direction to any member of the city staff. Unless otherwise set
forth herein or established by Illinois state statutes, all recommendations of
the board shall be referred to the city council for consideration and
implementation by the city.
   B.   The commission shall not have the authority to make any expenditure, or
cause to be made any purchase or contract that directly or indirectly results
in a financial liability or lien against the city, without the express prior
approval of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
CHAPTER 10
ARTS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2.10.1: Commission Established
2.10.2: Membership, Terms, Officers
2.10.3: Meetings
2.10.4: Powers and Duties
2.10.5: General Provisions
2.10.1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
To support and promote the City of Woodstock as a premier arts center and
destination, thereby enriching and enhancing both the local economy and the
quality of life, an Arts Commission is hereby established in the City. (Ord.
19-O-85, 11-5-19)
2.10.2: MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, OFFI-CERS: 
   A.   The Commission shall consist of six (6) members plus an appointed
chair. All members shall be residents of McHenry County and at least four (4)
members shall live within the corporate boundaries of the City of Woodstock.
All members and the Chair shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council.
All members shall be selected on the basis of a sincere, motivated belief that
art is important to the life of a community and nourishes human development.
Other criteria for selection may include experience with any of the arts
including, but not limited to, visual art (painting, drawing, photography,
sculpture, pottery, floral); performing art (music, dance, theatre, comedy,
recitation); written (creative writing of fiction, non-fiction, and poetry;
musical composition and lyrics); artisan crafts (knitting, quilting,
woodworking, cooking); film/video (writing and production); experience with
fundraising and charitable giving; and personal effectiveness with team
building and community outreach.
   B.   The term of office for all members, including the Chair, shall be for
three (3) years.
   C.   Any vacancy shall be filled through appointment by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the City Council, but only for the unexpired portion of
the vacated term.
   D.   Chair: The Chair shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council in May of each year. It shall be the duty of the
Chair to conduct all meetings of the Commission and to represent the Commission
at City Council meetings as from time to time may be necessary.
   E.   Vice-Chair: The Commission shall elect a Vice-Chair from among its
membership at the first meeting of each year.
   F.   Secretary: The City Clerk or designee shall serve as Secretary and
maintain minutes and records of regular and special meetings and regularly
provide such records to the City Council. (Ord. 19-O-85, 11-5-19; amd. Ord. 21-
O-23, 4-6-2021; Ord. 22-O-28, 5-17-2022)
2.10.3: MEETINGS:
   A.   The Commission shall meet from time to time as may be determined by the
Chair or a majority of the Commission.
   B.   All meetings shall be held in compliance with the Illinois Open
Meetings Act. (Ord. 19-O-85, 11-5-19)
2.10.4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The Commission shall serve only in an advisory capacity to the
Woodstock City Council and shall comply with all applicable provisions of
Illinois State Statutes and the Woodstock City Code.
   B.   The Commission shall investigate, become informed about and promote art
projects that can help the City of Woodstock become a premier arts destination.
   C.   The Commission shall encourage and facilitate collaboration between the
City and private citizens, businesses, organizations and institutions
interested in or conducting arts-related activities to maximize the allocation
and utilization of art resources in support of the arts.
   D.   The Commission shall advise the City Council in arts-related matters,
including long range planning, resource allocation and coordination with the
comprehensive plan.
   E.   The Commission shall assist with the development of art programs in the
City.
   F.   The Commission shall prepare and recommend to the City Council an arts
development plan. Such plan should identify ways for the City to support the
local arts community, connect residents
   and visitors to the arts, partner with local arts groups and businesses,
coordinate with arts programs in the region, and promote local art programs and
events. It may include:
      1.   Recommendations for a public-art program, including an inventory of
available sites for public art display, a procedure for soliciting and
selecting proposals for artworks and a strategy for promoting the artworks.
      2.   Plans for project-specific public art, such as a downtown mural
program, a roundabout sculpture program, a bike-path sculpture program, or a
town-gateway art program.
      3.   Proposals for arts programming to be developed by City departments
or agencies such as an arts-focused resource center operated by the library or
an expansion of arts programming offered by the recreation department.
      4.   Proposals for artist-in-residence programs, including parameters for
selection of artists working in a variety of disciplines, terms of residency,
and project requirements.
      5.   Ways to support or expand existing arts programs and festivals and
support the growth and development of local arts groups.
   G.   The Commission shall prepare and recommend to the City Council from
time to time, recommendations for specific improvements, additions to or
deletions from the plan.
   H.   The Commission shall have the opportunity to form ad hoc committees and
appoint members to such committees, including at least one member of
theCommission, for the purpose of researching specific topical areas, reporting
research outcomes to the Commission, and coordinating associated special
projects and events in keeping with the mission and objectives of the Arts
Commission
   I.   The Commission may provide input to the art-related uses of the City-
controlled portions of the Old Courthouse complex.
   J.   The Commission may provide recommendations for City funding of, and
investigate and promote fund development and procurement for, Arts Commission
projects.
   K.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to provide or imply a right
or responsibility of the Commission to advise or participate in any review or
approval process under the specific purview of other City boards and
commissions. (Ord. 19-O-85, 11-5-19)
2.10.5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The City shall provide all reasonable assistance to the Arts Commission
in order to assist the Commission with its various duties. All requests for
assistance are to be conveyed to the City Manager for appropriate response by
the City. Neither the Commission nor any of its members shall give direction to
any member of the City staff and all recommendations of the Commission shall be
referred to the City Council for consideration and implementation by the City.
   B.   The Commission shall not have the authority to make any expenditure, or
cause to be made any purchase or contract that directly or indirectly results
in a financial liability or lien against the City, without the express prior
approval of the Mayor and City Council. (Ord. 19-O-85, 11-5-19)
CHAPTER 11
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2.11.1: Commission Established
2.11.2: Membership, Terms, Officers
2.11.3: Meetings
2.11.4: Powers And Duties
2.11.5: General Provisions
2.11.1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
To further the goals of supporting and furthering healthy, active lifestyles;
providing a varied and comprehensive recreational program and park system in
the city of Woodstock; upholding both passive and active recreational uses of
municipal parks and recreational facilities; and promoting and supporting
pedestrian access and connectivity within the city of Woodstock, a parks and
recreation commission is hereby established in the city. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-
2008)
2.11.2: MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, OFFICERS:
   A.   Commission Membership: The commission shall consist of four (4) members
plus an appointed chair. All members shall be residents of the geographic
boundaries of unit school district 200 and at least three (3) members shall be
residents of the city of Woodstock. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
   B.   Appointment: The members and chair of the commission shall be appointed
by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council.
   C.   Term Of Office: The term of office for all members, including the
chair, shall be for three (3) years.
   D.   Vacancy: Any vacancy shall be filled through appointment by the mayor
with the advice and consent of the city council, but only for the unexpired
portion of the vacated term.
   E.   Chair: The chair shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council in May of each year. It shall be the duty of the
chair to conduct all meetings of the commission and to represent the commission
at city council meetings as from time to time may be necessary.
   F.   Vice Chair: The commission shall elect a vice chair from among its
membership at the first meeting of each year.
   G.   Secretary: The city clerk or designee shall serve as secretary and
maintain minutes and records of regular and special meetings and regularly
provide such records to the city council. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.11.3: MEETINGS:
   A.   The commission shall meet from time to time as may be determined by the
chair or a majority of the commission.
   B.   All meetings shall be held in compliance with the Illinois open
meetings act.
   C.   The recreation director or designee shall attend all meetings of the
commission. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.11.4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The parks and recreation commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   Make recommendations to the city council regarding parks and recreation
activities for the city.
   B.   Provide aid, assistance, and advice to the officials of the city on
subjects relating to parks and recreation activities.
   C.   Assist in the implementation of the city's comprehensive plan as it
pertains to parks and recreation activities.
   D.   Review all new residential development projects and provide a
recommendation for the donation of land for park sites.
   E.   Prepare and recommend to the city council a parks master plan. Such
plan shall include an overview of current park and recreational facility
locations, recommendations for future parks and recreational facilities sites
and amenities, and a supporting system of pedestrian access and connectivity.
   F.   Prepare and recommend to the city council from time to time such
changes in the plan as may be deemed necessary by the council or the
commission, but not less often than once every five (5) years.
   G.   Solicit information from the public and user groups for specific park
improvement projects, provide recommendations for improvement projects, and
provide recommendations for park and recreation facility needs, goals and
implementation schedules.
   H.   Solicit information from specific user groups such as established
leagues and school organizations to coordinate use of city facilities.
   I.   Assist staff to identify special user groups and establish or modify
recreation opportunities to increase the availability and selection of park and
recreation activities for all residents.
   J.   Evaluate policies for use of park and recreational facilities and
recommend changes to the established policies to the city council.
   K.   Evaluate current fees for park and recreational facilities and
recommend changes to the established fee structure to the city council.
   L.   Develop and conduct various means to publicize commission activities in
order to solicit public comments on park and recreation issues and to
communicate with the public to increase general public awareness and
understanding. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008)
2.11.5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city shall provide all reasonable assistance to the parks and
recreation commission in order to assist the commission with its various
duties. All requests for assistance are to be conveyed to the recreation
director for appropriate response by the city. Neither the commission nor any
of its members shall give direction to any member of the city staff and all
recommendations of the commission shall be referred to the city council for
consideration and implementation by the city.
   B.   The commission shall not have the authority to make any expenditure, or
cause to be made any purchase or contract that directly or indirectly results
in a financial liability or lien against the city, without the express prior
approval of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 08-0-68, 11-4-2008)
CHAPTER 12
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2.12.1: Commission Established
2.12.2: Membership, Terms, Officers
2.12.3: Meetings
2.12.4: Powers And Duties
2.12.5: Cooperation With Regional Plan
2.12.6: Land Subdivision Or Resubdivision
2.12.7: Improvements
2.12.8: Project Review Process
2.12.9: Project Review Appeal Process
2.12.10: Expenditures
2.12.11: General Provisions
2.12.1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
To provide for well planned, managed and serviceable growth of the residential,
commercial and industrial sectors of the municipality, a plan commission is
hereby established in the city. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
2.12.2: MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, OFFICERS:
   A.   Commission Membership: The commission shall consist of six (6) members
plus an appointed chair. Five (5) members shall live within the corporate
boundaries of the city of Woodstock and two (2) may reside within one and one-
half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits of the city but must not be included
in any other municipality.
   B.   Appointment: The members and chair of the commission shall be appointed
by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council.
   C.   Term Of Office: The term of office for all members, including the
chair, shall be for three (3) years.
   D.   Vacancy: Any vacancy shall be filled through appointment by the mayor
with the advice and consent of the city council, but only for the unexpired
portion of the vacated term.
   E.   Chair: The chair shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council in May of each year. It shall be the duty of the
chair to conduct all meetings of the commission and to represent the commission
at city council meetings as from time to time may be necessary.
   F.   Vice Chair: The commission shall elect a vice chair from among its
membership at the first meeting of each year.
   G.   Secretary: The city clerk or designee shall serve as secretary and
maintain minutes and records of regular and special meetings and regularly
provide such records to the city council. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012; amd. Ord.
22-O-23, 4-19-2022, eff. 5-1-2022)
2.12.3: MEETINGS:
   A.   The commission shall meet no less than monthly. Additional meetings may
be called if deemed necessary by the chair or a majority of the commission.
   B.   All meetings shall be held in compliance with the Illinois open
meetings act. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
2.12.4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The plan commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   Prepare and recommend to the city council a comprehensive plan of
public improvements and land use, looking to the present and future development
and growth of the city. Such plan, after its adoption by the city council,
shall be known as the official plan of the city. Such plan shall include
reasonable requirements with reference to streets, alleys and public grounds
within the corporate limits and in contiguous territory outside of and distant
not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles from such limits, and not included
in any municipality; such requirements to be effective whenever any such lands
shall be subdivided after the adoption of the plan.
   B.   Prepare and recommend to the city council from time to time such
changes in the plan as may be deemed necessary by the city council or the
commission, but not less often than once every five (5) years.
   C.   Prepare and recommend to the city council from time to time, plans and
recommendations for specific improvements pursuant to such official plan.
   D.   Hear all requests, petitions or appeals for rezoning of real estate or
amendments to the zoning district maps or the text of the zoning ordinance as
follows:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by a ruling of the City Zoning Officer, or by
any officer, department, board or bureau of the City concerning the
interpretation of the Zoning Ordinance, may appeal to the Plan Commission.
      2.   The Commission shall hear appeals and review any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Zoning Officer charged with the
enforcement of the City Zoning Ordinance.
      3.   A notice of appeal shall be made upon completion of forms provided
by the Commission for such purpose and the filing of said forms with the City
Clerk and the Commission. Said notice shall specify the grounds of appeal and
shall include such plats and exhibits as are reasonably necessary.
      4.   An appeal shall be taken by the Commission within thirty (30) days
after the filing with the City Clerk and the Commission of a notice of appeal.
The City Clerk shall transmit to the Commission all documents constituting the
record upon which the action being appealed was taken.
      5.   Formulate standards and regulations for the evaluation of appeals
and rules of procedure. Such regulations and rules of procedure shall be
submitted to the City Council and shall be approved by the City Council in
advance of their application to specific appeals.
      6.   Prepare and recommend to the City Council from time to time such
changes in standards, regulations and rules as may be deemed necessary by the
City Council or the Board.
      7.   The Commission may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may
modify or amend the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed, to
the extent and in the manner the Commission may decide to be fitting and proper
for the premises. To that end, the Commission shall have all the powers of the
Zoning Officer of the City whose order, requirement, decision or determination
made was cause for the appeal.
      8.   The concurring vote of four (4) members of the Commission shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Zoning Officer of the City or to decide in favor of the appellant any matter
upon which it is authorized to render decisions.
   E.   Review and approve the layout of all streets and the subdivision of
real estate and approve preliminary and final plats of subdivision,
resubdivision, or planned development.
   F.   Give aid to the officials of the city charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of such improvements, and generally to promote the realization of the
official plan.
   G.   Work to establish greater public interest and participation in
enhancement of the city's appearance, order and quality of design to combat
deterioration of visual character.
   H.   Formulate standards and regulations for the evaluation of proposed
projects and rules of procedure for application and hearings. Such regulations
and rules of procedure shall be submitted to the city council and shall be
approved by the city council in advance of their application to specific
projects.
   I.   Prepare and recommend to the city council from time to time such
changes in standards, regulations and rules as may be deemed necessary by the
city council or the commission.
   J.   Periodically, at its discretion, audit the community development
department's application of the regulations, standards and rules to a completed
project review and report to the city council the results of its audit and make
recommendations to the city council with respect to project reviews.
   K.   Act as counselor and review consultant on matters of appearance to
those desiring to develop or redevelop properties.
   L.   Arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its activities
for the general purpose of public understanding.
   M.   Exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by law as may
be conferred by the city council. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012; amd. Ord. 21-O-23,
4-6-2021; Ord. 22-O-23, 4-19-2022, eff. 5-1-2022)
2.12.5: COOPERATION WITH REGIONAL PLAN:
The plan and activities of the commission shall be developed in cooperation
with and implemented by any regional plan that may be adopted by other units of
government in McHenry County insofar as the same is possible. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-
20-2012)
2.12.6: LAND SUBDIVISION OR RESUBDIVISION:
Following the adoption of an official plan in the manner prescribed in this
chapter, no map or plat of any subdivision or resubdivision presented for
record affecting land within the corporate limits of the city, or in contiguous
territory outside of and distant not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles
from such limits and not included in the city, shall be entitled to record or
shall be valid unless the subdivision thereon shall provide for streets, alleys
and public grounds in conformity with any applicable requirements of the
official plan. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
2.12.7: IMPROVEMENTS:
The city clerk shall furnish the commission, for its consideration, a copy of
all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements of any nature.
The commission may report in relation thereto if it deems a report necessary or
advisable, for the consideration of the city council. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
2.12.8: PROJECT REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   All project plans subject to project review shall be submitted to the
community development department for review and approval.
   B.   The community development department shall review project plans, using
the commission's regulations and standards and submit a written project review
report. Such project review shall be completed by the department within fifteen
(15) business days after a complete submittal has been made.
   C.   The community development department shall make recommendations for the
change, alteration or variation of any project plan in the written project
review report to inform the applicant of necessary corrections to bring the
project plan into accord with this code and the commission's regulations and
standards. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
2.12.9: PROJECT REVIEW APPEAL PROCESS:
   A.   Any applicant or other person aggrieved with the findings of the
community development department may appeal to the commission by filing a
notice of appeal with the director of the community development department
within ten (10) days after notification of the department's decision.
   B.   The director of the community development department shall set a date
for an appeals hearing before the commission. The hearing on any appeal shall
be set not less than five (5) days nor more than thirty (30) days from the date
of notice of appeal.
   C.   The building and zoning officer of the city shall provide notification
of the appeals hearing to the commissioners, the applicant for project plan
approval, the appellant and any other person having an interest in the
proceedings.
   D.   After the hearing, the commission shall, with findings of fact, approve
or disapprove the project plan under appeal. A simple majority vote of the
commission shall be required to overturn any decision of the community
development department.
   E.   The commission shall also recommend changes, alterations or variations
to a disapproved project plan so the applicant is advised of corrections to
bring the project plan into accord with this code and the commission's
regulations and standards.
   F.   Any applicant or other person aggrieved with the findings of the
commission may appeal to the city council by filing a notice of appeal with the
city manager within ten (10) days after notification of the commission's
decision.
   G.   The city manager shall set a date for hearing the appeal before the
city council. The hearing for any such appeal shall be set not less than five
(5) days nor more than thirty (30) days from the date of the filing of the
notice of appeal.
   H.   The city manager shall notify the commission chair, the applicant for
project approval, the appellant and any other person having an interest in the
proceedings.
   I.   After the hearing, the city council shall approve or disapprove the
project plan under appeal. A simple majority vote of the city council shall be
required to overturn any decision of the commission. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
2.12.10: EXPENDITURES:
The commission may, at the discretion of the city council, employ necessary
help whose salaries, wages and other necessary expenses shall be provided for
by adequate appropriation made by the city council from the public funds. If
the commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical advice or service,
it may be done upon authority from and the appropriation by the city council
for such purpose. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
2.12.11: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city shall provide all reasonable assistance to the plan commission
in order to assist the commission with its various duties. All requests for
assistance are to be conveyed to the city manager for appropriate response by
the city. Neither the commission nor any of its members shall give direction to
any member of the city staff. Unless otherwise set forth herein or established
by Illinois state statutes, all recommendations of the commission shall be
referred to the city council for consideration and implementation by the city.
   B.   Except as specifically stated in this chapter, the commission shall not
have the authority to make any expenditure, or cause to be made any purchase or
contract that directly or indirectly results in a financial liability or lien
against the city, without the express prior approval of the mayor and city
council.
   C.   Any special request for the record to be taken by a court reporter
shall be provided at the expense of the appellant with a copy provided to the
city one week prior to action by the city council. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
CHAPTER 13
POLICE PENSION BOARD
SECTION:
2.13.1: Board Established
2.13.2: Membership, Terms, Officers
2.13.3: Meetings
2.13.4: Powers And Duties
2.13.5: General Provisions
2.13.1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
   A.   For the benefit of city of Woodstock police officers and their
surviving spouses, children, and certain other dependents, and in accordance
with Illinois state statutes, specifically article 3 of the Illinois pension
code, the board of trustees of the police pension fund is hereby established in
the city.
   B.   For purposes of reference and financial accounting within the
municipality, the board of trustees of the police pension fund shall also be
known as, and shall serve as one in the same as, the police pension board.
(Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
2.13.2: MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, OFFICERS:
   A.   Board Membership: The board of trustees of the police pension fund,
a.k.a. police pension board, shall consist of five (5) members, at least two
(2) of whom shall reside within the corporate boundaries of the city of
Woodstock.
   B.   Appointment: Two (2) members of the board shall be appointed by the
mayor with the advice and consent of the city council. Two (2) members of the
board shall be elected from the regular police force by the active members
thereof. The remaining members shall be elected by and from the beneficiaries
of the police pension fund.
   C.   Election: The election for elected board members provided for in
subsection B of this section shall be held biennially on the third Monday in
April at such time or times and places in the city as shall be prescribed by
the appointed members of the board, and under the Australian ballot system and
other such regulations.
   D.   Voting: All members of the regular police force shall be entitled to
vote only for the police force members of the board. All beneficiaries of legal
voting age shall be entitled to vote only for the member to be chosen from the
beneficiaries. No person shall be entitled to cast more than one ballot at any
such election. Members so elected shall be elected for a term of two (2) years
beginning the second Tuesday of the first May following such election.
   E.   Term Of Office: The term of office for all members shall be for two (2)
years.
   F.   Vacancy: Any vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the initial
appointing authority, but only to the unexpired portion of the vacated term.
   G.   Officers: The officers of the board shall be president, vice president,
secretary and assistant secretary who shall be selected from its members at the
regular July meeting. Officers shall serve for one year and until their
respective successors are elected and qualified.
   H.   President: It shall be the duty of the president to conduct all
meetings of the board and to represent the board at city council meetings as
from time to time may be necessary.
   I.   Vice President: The vice president shall perform the duties of the
president during any vacancy in that office, or during the president's absence
from the municipality, or if he or she is by reason of illness or other causes
unable to perform the duties of the office.
   J.   Secretary: The secretary shall maintain minutes and records of regular
and special meetings and regularly provide such records to the city council.
   K.   Assistant Secretary: The assistant secretary shall act for the
secretary whenever necessary to discharge the functions of such office. (Ord.
12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
2.13.3: MEETINGS:
   A.   The board shall meet no less than quarterly in July, October, January
and April. Additional meetings may be called if deemed necessary by the
president or a majority of the board.
   B.   Notice of a board meeting shall be given in writing to each member of
the board at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the time set for the
meeting. Additionally, notice of the meeting shall be posted in a conspicuous
place in the police department not less than twenty four (24) hours prior to
any board meeting.
   C.   All meetings shall be held in compliance with the Illinois open
meetings act. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
2.13.4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of trustees of the police pension fund, a.k.a. police pension board,
of the city shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To control and manage exclusively the pension fund and all monies
donated, paid or assessed for the relief or pensioning of disabled,
superannuated and retired members of the police department, their widows, minor
children and dependent parents. All such monies shall be placed by the
treasurer of the municipality to the credit of the fund subject to the order of
the board.
   B.   To order and direct the payment of pensions and other benefits provided
by article 3 of the Illinois pension code and to issue certificates signed by
its president and secretary to the persons entitled thereto of the amount
ordered paid to such persons from the fund, which certificate shall state the
purpose of the payment.
   C.   To submit annually to the city council at the close of the
municipality's fiscal year, a list of persons entitled to benefits from the
fund, stating the amount of the payments and their purpose, as ordered by the
board. It shall also include items of income accrued to the fund during the
fiscal year. Such lists shall be signed by the secretary and president of the
board and attested under oath. No resolution or order for the payment of money
shall be valid unless approved by a majority of the members of the board, and
any order for such payment shall be signed by the president and secretary of
the board.
   D.   To draw such pension funds from the treasurer or other officials of the
municipality, and to invest any part thereof in the name of the board in
interest bearing bonds or tax anticipation warrants of the United States Of
America, of the state of Illinois, or of any county, township or municipal
corporation of the state of Illinois; insured withdrawal capital accounts of
the state chartered savings and loan associations; insured withdrawable capital
accounts of federal chartered federal savings and loan associations if the
withdrawable capital accounts are insured by the federal savings and loan
insurance corporation; insured investments in credit unions if the investments
are insured by the national credit union administration; and in savings
accounts or certificates of deposit of a national or state bank. All
certificates or securities shall be deposited with the treasurer of the
municipality and be subject to the order of the board. Interest on such
investments shall be credited to the account of the police pension fund.
   E.   To compel witnesses to attend and testify before it, upon all matters
connected with the administration of this chapter, in the manner provided by
law for the taking of testimony before the circuit court. The president or any
member of the board may administer oaths to such witnesses.
   F.   To accept donations by gift, grant, transfer, or bequest, any money,
real estate, or personal property. Such money and the proceeds from the sale of
or the income from such real estate or personal property shall be paid into the
police pension fund.
   G.   To appoint a clerk and define the duties of a clerk. No person drawing
a pension under this chapter shall be employed by the board.
   H.   To provide for the payment from the fund of all necessary expenses
including clerk hire, printing and witness fees.
   I.   To keep a public record of all its proceedings.
   J.   To make necessary rules and regulations in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, which shall be published by the board and copies
transmitted from time to time to all pensioners and contributors. (Ord. 12-O-
21, 3-20-2012)
2.13.5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city shall provide all reasonable assistance to the board of
trustees of the police pension fund, a.k.a. police pension board, in order to
assist the board with its various duties. All requests for assistance are to be
conveyed to the director of the finance department for appropriate response by
the city. Neither the board nor any of its members shall give direction to any
member of the city staff. Unless otherwise set forth herein or established by
Illinois state statutes, all recommendations of the board shall be referred to
the city council for consideration and implementation by the city.
   B.   Except as specifically stated in this chapter, the board shall not have
the authority to make any expenditure, or cause to be made any purchase or
contract that directly or indirectly results in a financial liability or lien
against the city, without the express prior approval of the mayor and city
council. (Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
CHAPTER 14
RESERVED
(Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
CHAPTER 15
RESERVED
CHAPTER 16
OLD COURTHOUSE AND SHERIFF'S HOUSE ADVISORY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2.16.1: Commission Established
2.16.2: Membership, Terms, Officers
2.16.3: Meetings
2.16.4: Powers And Duties
2.16.5: General Provisions
2.16.1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
To further the goals of: a) preserving, and promoting awareness and
understanding of the historic and architectural character of the Old McHenry
County Courthouse and Sheriff's House on the Square, b) promoting and
soliciting investment in, and ensuring the financial sustainability of, the Old
Courthouse and Sheriff's House, c) utilizing the Old Courthouse and Sheriff's
House as contributing entities to the economic base of the Square and
community, and d) facilitate collaboration among community and regional
partners in such efforts, the Old Courthouse and Sheriff's House advisory
commission is hereby established in the city. (Ord. 15-O-62, 10-6-2015)
2.16.2: MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, OFFICERS:
   A.   Membership: The commission shall be comprised of six (6) members plus
an appointed chair. All members shall be residents of McHenry County and at
least five (5) members shall live within the corporate boundaries of the city
of Woodstock.
All members and the chair shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council.
All members shall be selected on the basis of a sincere, motivated interest in
identifying the highest and best use of the Old Courthouse and Sheriff's House,
recognizing its potential contribution to the aesthetic and vitality of the
Historic Woodstock Square. Other criteria for selection may include an
understanding of real estate and/or economic development strategies; knowledge
of historic preservation techniques and guidelines; experience with fundraising
and charitable giving; personal effectiveness with team building and community
outreach.
Further, members shall be appointed recognizing the municipal interest of
providing cross sector representation from within the community. Therefore,
reasonable consideration should be given to property or business owners within
the historic downtown area; individuals with evidenced expertise in the
disciplines of architectural history, architectural planning, historic
preservation, or related fields; and professionals in law, education,
engineering, economic development, fund development and procurement, financing,
real estate, and the construction trades.
   B.   Terms: The term of office for all members, including the chair, shall
be for three (3) years.
   C.   Vacancies: Any vacancy shall be filled through appointment by the mayor
with the advice and consent of the city council, but only for the unexpired
portion of the vacated term.
   D.   Chair: The chair shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council in May of each year. It shall be the duty of the
chair to conduct all meetings of the commission and to represent the commission
at city council meetings as from time to time may be necessary.
   E.   Vice Chair: The commission shall elect a vice chair from among its
membership at the first meeting of each year.
   F.   Secretary: The city clerk or designee shall serve as secretary and
maintain minutes and records of regular and special meetings and regularly
provide such records to the city council. (Ord. 15-O-62, 10-6-2015; amd. Ord.
21-O-23, 4-6-2021)
2.16.3: MEETINGS:
   A.   The commission shall meet no less than quarterly. Additional meetings
may be called if deemed necessary by the chair or a majority of the commission.
   B.   All meetings shall be held in compliance with the Illinois open
meetings act.
   C.   The managing director of the Old Courthouse and Sheriff's House or
designee shall attend all meetings of the commission. (Ord. 15-O-62, 10-6-2015)
2.16.4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The commission shall serve only in an advisory capacity to the city
council and shall comply with all applicable provisions of Illinois state
statutes and this code.
   B.   Specific duties of the commission shall be:
      1.   To work to establish greater public interest and participation in
the historic preservation of the Old McHenry County Courthouse and Sheriff's
House within the city.
      2.   To inform and educate the citizens of the city and county concerning
the historic, architectural and aesthetic significance of the buildings.
      3.   To hold such public meetings appropriate to gain public input on
ownership and the highest and best uses of the Old Courthouse and Sheriff's
House.
      4.   To create and forward a common vision for ownership and use of the
buildings for consideration and approval by the city council.
      5.   To investigate and promote fund development and procurement
supportive of long term sustainability of the buildings.
      6.   To consider potential lease arrangements associated with the Old
Courthouse and Sheriff's House and make recommendations to the city council for
consideration and approval.
      7.   To annually evaluate and prioritize in cooperation with the managing
director of the Old Courthouse and Sheriff's House, short and long term
structural capital expenditures, capital improvements, and other needs based on
the underlying interests and priorities of accessibility, structural and
historic integrity, financial capacity, and sustainability and make
recommendations to the city council for consideration and approval.
      8.   To promote and facilitate interaction among organizations and groups
interested in the preservation of the Old Courthouse and Sheriff's House.
      9.   To prepare a written report to the city council at the end of each
calendar year and in cooperation with the managing director of the Old
Courthouse and Sheriff's House evaluating the status of the buildings in terms
of: a) historic preservation, b) structural improvement and integrity, c)
usage, including tenants and leases, d) financial perspective and economic
viability, and e) the impact of the buildings, status and uses on the downtown
Square area and community.
      10.   To consider, evaluate and make recommendations pertaining to any
Old Courthouse and/or Sheriff's House issue at the request of the city council.
(Ord. 15-O-62, 10-6-2015)
2.16.5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city shall provide all reasonable assistance to the Old Courthouse
and Sheriff's House advisory commission in order to assist the commission with
its various duties. All requests for assistance are to be conveyed to the
managing director of the Old Courthouse and Sheriff's House for appropriate
response by the city. Neither the commission nor any of its members shall give
direction to any member of the city staff and all recommendations of the
commission shall be referred to the city council for consideration and
implementation by the city.
   B.   The commission shall not have the authority to make any expenditure, or
cause to be made any purchase or contract that directly or indirectly results
in a financial liability or lien against the city, without the express prior
approval of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 15-O-62, 10-6-2015)
CHAPTER 17
OPERA HOUSE ADVISORY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2.17.1: Commission Established
2.17.2: Membership, Terms, Officers
2.17.3: Meetings
2.17.4: Powers And Duties
2.17.5: General Provisions
2.17.1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
To further the goals of providing varied and diverse cultural arts programming
in the city of Woodstock, opportunities for local artists and performers to
grow and advance in their art, and uphold and preserve the historic character
of the Woodstock Opera House, the Woodstock Opera House advisory commission is
hereby established. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008; amd. Ord. 15-O-62, 10-6-2015)
2.17.2: MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, OFFICERS:
   A.   Commission Membership: The commission shall be comprised of six (6)
members plus an appointed chair. All members shall be residents of McHenry
County. Two (2) at large members and the chair shall be appointed by the mayor
with the advice and consent of the city council. The remainder of the
commission shall include one representative selected by and from each of the
following community based constituent groups upon consent of the city council:
      Friends Of The Opera House
      Judith Svalander School of Ballet
      Theatre 121
      Woodstock Fine Arts Association
Of the three (3) members and the chair appointed by the mayor with the advice
and consent of the city council, none may be members of the governing boards of
the above constituent groups.
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office for all members, including the
chair, shall be for three (3) years.
   C.   Vacancy: Any vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the initial
appointing authority with the consent of the city council, but only to the
unexpired portion of the vacated term.
   D.   Chair: The chair shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council in May of each year. It shall be the duty of the
chair to conduct all meetings of the commission and to represent the commission
at city council meetings as from time to time may be necessary.
   E.   Vice Chair: The commission shall elect a vice chair from among its
membership at the first meeting of each year.
   F.   Secretary: The opera house director or designee shall serve as
secretary and maintain minutes and records of regular and special meetings and
regularly provide such records to the city council. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008;
amd. Ord. 15-O-62, 10-6-2015; Ord. 16-O-18, 4-5-2016; Ord. 19-O-51, 6-4-2019;
Ord. 21-O-23, 4-6-2021)
2.17.3: MEETINGS:
   A.   The commission shall meet from time to time as may be determined by the
chair or a majority of the commission.
   B.   All meetings shall be held in compliance with the Illinois open
meetings act.
   C.   The opera house director or designee shall attend all meetings of the
commission. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008; amd. Ord. 15-O-62, 10-6-2015)
2.17.4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The commission shall serve only in an advisory capacity to the
Woodstock city council and shall comply with all applicable provisions of
Illinois state statutes and this code and shall have the following.
   B.   Specific duties of the commission shall be:
      1.   To evaluate all phases of the performing arts, art exhibits,
lectures and cultural activities in connection with the utilization of the
Woodstock Opera House Community Center and Stage Left Cafe.
      2.   To assist, in an advisory capacity, the opera house director, in the
promotion and use of the Opera House Community Center and Stage Left Cafe for
recreational, artistic and educational purposes.
      3.   To prepare a written report to the city council at the end of each
calendar year and in cooperation with the opera house director evaluating the
programs and policies governing the use of the Woodstock Opera House Community
Center and Stage Left Cafe. This shall be prepared by taking into consideration
how the various programs in the facilities relate to other such commercial and
educational programs in surrounding areas.
      4.   To recommend to the city council at the end of each calendar year
and in cooperation with the opera house director necessary short and long term
capital expenditures, capital improvements and other facility needs of the
Opera House Community Center and Stage Left Cafe.
      5.   To promote and facilitate interaction among organizations and groups
who utilize the facilities of the Opera House Community Center and Stage Left
Cafe.
      6.   To consider, evaluate and make recommendations pertaining to any
Opera House Community Center and Stage Left Cafe issue at the request of the
Woodstock city council. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008; amd. Ord. 15-O-62, 10-6-2015)
2.17.5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city shall provide all reasonable assistance to the Woodstock opera
house advisory commission in order to assist the commission with its various
duties. All requests for assistance are to be conveyed to the opera house
director for appropriate response by the city. Neither the commission nor any
of its members shall give direction to any member of the city staff and all
recommendations of the commission shall be referred to the city council for
consideration and implementation by the city.
   B.   The commission shall not have the authority to make any expenditure, or
cause to be made any purchase or contract that directly or indirectly results
in a financial liability or lien against the city, without the express prior
approval of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 08-O-68, 11-4-2008; amd. Ord. 15-
O-62, 10-6-2015)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LICENSES AND PERMITS
SECTION:
3.1.1: Applicability of Provisions
3.1.2: Application for Licenses
3.1.3: Contents of Licenses
3.1.4: Investigations
3.1.5: License Fees
3.1.6: Term of Licenses
3.1.7: Conditions of License
3.1.8: Inspections
3.1.9: Revocation of License
3.1.1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
In the absence of specific provisions to the contrary, the provisions of this
Chapter shall apply to the issuance of all licenses and permits by the City.
(1963 Code, §43.01)
3.1.2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSES:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be made
in writing to the City Manager. Each application shall state the name of the
applicant, the permit or license desired, the location to be used, if any, the
time covered and the fee to be paid, and shall contain such additional
information as may be needed for the proper guidance of the City officials in
the issuing of the permit or license applied for. (1963 Code, §43.02; amd. 1986
Code)
3.1.3: CONTENTS OF LICENSES:
   A.   Forms: Forms for all licenses, permits and applications shall be
prepared and kept on file by the City Manager. (1963 Code, §43.03; amd. 1986
Code)
   B.   Signatures: Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of
the Mayor and the Clerk. (1963 Code, §43.04)
3.1.4: INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where the ordinances
of the City necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of
such permit or license, the City Manager shall refer such application to the
proper officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of
the time of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the
investigation or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or
otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving the application or a copy
thereof. If the report recommends denial, the reasons shall be stated in the
report. (1963 Code, §43.05; amd. 1986 Code)
3.1.5: LICENSE FEES:
All fees and charges for licenses or permits shall be paid at the time
application is made to the City Manager. When application for an annual license
is made after the expiration of six (6) months of the current license year, the
license for the remainder of the year shall be issued upon payment of one-half
(1/2) the annual fee. (1963 Code, §43.06; amd. 1986 Code)
3.1.6: TERM OF LICENSES:
   A.   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the current
fiscal year of the City 1 .
   B.   Three (3) weeks prior to the date of expiration, the City Manager shall
mail a statement to all annual licensees of the City stating the time of
expiration. Failure to receive notice shall not excuse the licensee from
failure to renew his license. (1963 Code, §43.07; amd. 1986 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. Section
  1.3.2 of this Code defines "fiscal year" as May 1 to April 30.
3.1.7: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   No license or permit shall be issued for any purpose if the premises or
building to be used for such purpose do not comply with the ordinances or
regulations of the City. (1963 Code, §43.08)
   B.   Transfer: Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, lLicenses issued
may be transferred by the original licensee if written notice is filed with the
Director of Finance within ten (10) days before the transfer is made, but no
more than one transfer of any license shall be made within any license year.
(1963 Code, §43.09; amd. 1986 Code)
   C.   Posting License: Any person conducting a licensed business in the City
shall keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used for
such business. (1963 Code, §43.14)
   D.   Nuisances: No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or
operated as to amount to a nuisance in fact.
(1963 Code, §43.11; amd. Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.1.8: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for, the licensee
or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected shall admit for the
purpose of making such inspection at any reasonable time any authorized City
officer or employee.
   B.   Whenever an inspection or analysis of any commodity or material is
reasonably necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to
detect violations, the licensee shall give to any authorized officer or
employee of the City requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or
commodity for inspection analysis.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may
revoke the license of any licensee who refuses to permit any authorized officer
or employee to make such inspection, or who interferes with such officer or
employee while making such inspection. No license shall be revoked for such
cause unless written demand has been made upon the licensee or person in charge
of the premises in the name of the City, stating that such inspection is
sought. (1963 Code, §43.12)
3.1.9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked by the Mayor at any
time during the life of such license or permit for any violation by the
licensee or permittee of the ordinance provisions relating to the license or
permit, the subject matter of the license or permit, or to the premises
occupied. Such revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. (1963 Code,
§43.13)
No license shall be revoked without a hearing being conducted by the Mayor
pursuant to notice. (1986 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL TAXES
SECTION:
3.2.1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3.2.2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3.2.3: Municipal Use Tax
3.2.4: Foreign Fire Insurance Companies' Tax
3.2.5: Automobile Renting Use Tax
3.2.6: Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
3.2.7: Motor Fuel Tax
3.2.7.1: Tax Imposed
3.2.7.2: Collection Of Tax
3.2.7.3: Rules And Regulations
3.2.7.4: Revenue To Be Used For Road Improvements And Transportation
Infrastructure Projects
3.2.7.5: Failure To Pay Tax
3.2.8: Hotel/Motel Occupancy Tax
3.2.8.1: Purpose
3.2.8.2: Definitions
3.2.8.3: Tax Imposed
3.2.8.4: Operator's Duties
3.2.8.5: Records Maintenance And Inspections
3.2.8.6: Transmittal Of Tax Revenue
3.2.8.7: Refunds
3.2.8.8: Disposition Of Proceeds From Tax And Penalties
3.2.9: Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
3.2.9.1: Definitions
3.2.9.2: Tax Imposed
3.2.9.3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3.2.9.4: Returns To Department
3.2.9.5: Resellers
3.2.9.6: Repealer
3.2.10: Home Rule Sales Tax
3.2.10.1: Purpose
3.2.10.2: Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax Imposed
3.2.10.3: Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax Imposed
3.2.10.4: Collection By State
3.2.11: Municipal Cannabis Retailers' Occupation Tax
3.2.11.1: Tax Imposed; Rate
3.2.11.2: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3.2.12: Amusement Tax
3.2.1: MUNICIPAL RETAILER'S OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the City in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business while this Section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.
   B.   Every such person engaged in such business in the City shall file, on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by section three of "An Act in Relation to a Tax
Upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption" approved June 28, 1933, as amended 1 .
   C.   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(Ord. 840, 9-2-69)
   D.   The exclusion contained in section 2(d) of the "Retailers' Occupation
Tax Act" approved June 28, 1933, and as amended by Public Act 80-1292, shall
not apply to property within the City. (Ord. 1479, 12-19-78)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3.2.2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the City in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of the cost
price of all tangible personal property transferred by said servicemen either
in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-5.
   B.   Every supplier or serviceman required to account for Municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of the City shall file, on or before the last
day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of Revenue
required by section nine of the "Service Occupation Tax Act", approved July 10,
1961, as amended 1 .
   C.   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 841, 9-2-69)
   D.   The exclusion contained in section 2(e) of the "Service Occupation Tax
Act" approved July 10, 1961, as amended by Public Act 80-1292, shall not apply
to property within the City. (Ord. 1479, 12-19-78)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
3.2.3: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in the City any
item of tangible personal property, which is purchased outside of the State of
Illinois at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an
agency of the government of the State of Illinois. The tax imposed shall be at
the rate of one percent (1%) of the selling price of such tangible property.
"Selling price" shall have the same meaning as defined in the Use Tax Act,
approved July 14, 1955 1 .
   B.   The use tax hereby imposed shall be collected by the Illinois
Department of Revenue for the benefit of the City, and shall be paid before any
title or certificate of registration for such personal property shall be
issued. (Ord. 1118, 10-24-74)
 
Notes
1 2. S.H.A. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
3.2.4: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES' TAX:
   A.   Tax and License Fee: All corporations, companies and associations not
incorporated under the laws of this State which are engaged in effecting fire
insurance in the City, shall pay to the City Treasurer, for maintenance, use
and benefit of the Fire Department thereof, a sum equal to two percent (2%) of
the gross receipts of the premiums received by their agents for fire insurance
on property situated in the City. (1963 Code, §15.01)
   B.   Report: Every person acting as agent or otherwise for or on behalf of
such corporations, companies and associations shall, on or before July 15 of
each year, render to the City a full, true and just account, verified by his
oath of all premiums for fire insurance received by him or any other person for
him in behalf of any such corporation, company or association for the year
ending July 1; and shall also pay to the City Treasurer at the time of
rendering said report the amount due at the rate fixed by this Section, for
which the companies, corporations or associations represented by them are
severally chargeable by law and under this Section. (1963 Code, §15.02)
   C.   Transaction of Business Prohibited: If any person fails to render such
account on or before July 15, or if such amount so computed remains unpaid
after that date, it shall be unlawful for any person so in default to transact
any business in the City until this Section shall have been fully complied
with. (1963 Code, §15.03)
3.2.5: AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in the City an
automobile which is rented from a renter outside of the State of Illinois and
which is titled or registered with any agency of this State's government in the
City, at the rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile
while this Section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-8.
   B.   The tax provided for in this Section shall be collected from the
persons whose Illinois address for titling or registration purposes is given as
being in this City. (Ord. 1709, 1-5-82)
3.2.6: AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
renting automobiles in this City at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this Section
is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-7.
   B.   Every such person engaged in such business in the City shall file on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department
of Revenue required by sections two and three of "An Act in Relation to a Tax
Upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption", approved June 29, 1933, as amended 1 .
   C.   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (Ord. 1710, 1-5-82)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 35 ILCS 155/3, 155/4.
3.2.7: MOTOR FUEL TAX:
3.2.7.1: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   There is hereby imposed and levied a tax upon the retail purchase
within the City of motor fuel, at the rate of three cents ($0.03) per gallon or
fraction thereof.
   B.   This tax shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.
   C.   The ultimate incidence and liability for payment of such tax shall be
upon the retail purchaser of motor fuel. Nothing herein shall be construed to
impose a tax upon the occupation of selling motor fuel.
   D.   For purposes of this chapter, the term "motor fuel" shall include,
without limitation, all volatile and inflammable liquids produced, blended or
compounded for the purpose of, or which are suitable or practicable for,
operating motor vehicles, including but not limited to gasoline, gasohol and
diesel fuel. (Ord. 19-O-106, 12-18-2019)
3.2.7.2: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Each motor fuel retailer in the city shall have the duty to collect the
motor fuel tax from each purchaser and to pay it over to the city, along with
an accounting therefor, on return forms provided by the city.
   B.   On or before the thirtieth day of each calendar month, each motor fuel
retailer in the city shall file, with the Director of Finance, a tax payment
and a monthly tax return showing tax receipts with respect to the number of
gallons of fuel sold during the prior month. The City, in its discretion, may
request from the retailer, a copy of their ST-1 Illinois Department of Revenue
Retailer's Occupation Tax Return form or comparable evidence documenting
reported sales. The retailer shall submit said requested form within thirty
(30) days of the request. Any failure to supply documentation to substantiate
correct payment shall be deemed a violation of this Code.
   C.   If any retail motor fuel dealer fails to collect the local motor fuel
tax, such retail motor fuel dealer shall remain liable for the local motor fuel
tax not collected and shall pay the amount of the local motor fuel tax due to
the city in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 19-O-106, 12-18-2019)
3.2.7.3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The City Finance Director may prescribe reasonable rules, definitions and
regulations to collect this tax. (Ord. 19-O-106, 12-18-2019)
3.2.7.4: REVENUE TO BE USED FOR ROAD IMPROVEMENTS AND TRANSPORTATION
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS:
The revenue produced by the tax imposed in this Section 3-2-7 shall be used for
road improvements and for other transportation infrastructure projects. (Ord.
19-O-106, 12-18-2019)
3.2.7.5: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
Any violation of this Section 3-2-7 will be punishable in the manner prescribed
by Title 3, Chapter 2, Article A of the City Code, the Local Government
Taxpayer Bill of Rights. It will be deemed a violation of this Section 3-2-
7 for any person knowingly to furnish false or inaccurate information as
required herein. (Ord. 19-O-106, 12-18-2019)
3.2.8: HOTEL/MOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX:
3.2.8.1: PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to impose a tax upon transient
occupancy in any hotel within the city and to provide a means for its
collection. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.8.2: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter shall have the following meanings:
HOTEL: Except as provided in section
3.2.8.3 of this chapter, any structure, or any portion of any structure, which
is occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling,
lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, bed and breakfast,
tourist home or house, motel, house, rooming house, dormitory, public or
private club, mobile home or trailer in a fixed location, or other similar
structure or portion thereof.
OCCUPANCY: The use of possession, or the use or possession of any room or rooms
or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes.
OPERATOR: The person who is the proprietor of the hotel, whether in the
capacity of the owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee or
any other capacity. Where the operator performs his functions through a
managing agent of any type or character other than an employee, the managing
agent shall also be deemed an operator for the purposes of this chapter and
shall have the same duties and liabilities as his principal. Compliance with
the provisions of this chapter by either the principal or the managing agent
shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any room
or rooms, regardless of whether or not it is the same room or rooms, in a hotel
for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social
club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust,
business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or combination
acting as a unit.
RENT: The consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy of
space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor
or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and service of
any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
TRANSIENT: Any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by
reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement for a
period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of
calendar days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in a hotel shall
be deemed to be a transient until the period of thirty (30) days has expired
unless there is an agreement in writing between the operator and the occupant
providing for a longer period of occupancy, or the occupant has paid in advance
for over thirty (30) days' occupancy. In determining whether a person is a
transient, uninterrupted period of time extending both prior and subsequent to
the effective day of this chapter may be considered. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-
2019)
3.2.8.3: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is imposed upon persons engaged in the business of renting, leasing or
letting rooms in a hotel at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross rental
receipts from such renting, leasing or letting, excluding, however, from gross
rental receipts, the proceeds of such renting, leasing or letting to permanent
residents of that hotel. The following structures shall be exempted from
payment of the hotel/motel occupancy tax:
   A.   Any structure that is owner occupied and has five (5) or less guest
units available for occupancy; and
   B.   Any structure that is owned or operated by a not for profit agency,
such as Turning Point or Public Action to Deliver Shelter (PADS), which may
make guest units available for occupancy to homeless individuals displaced due
to financial and/or personal circumstances, irrespective of whether or not such
individuals pay a nominal or no fee to occupy the guest units. (Ord. 19-O-103,
12-18-2019)
3.2.8.4: OPERATOR'S DUTIES:
Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter at the same time as
the rent is collected from every transient. The amount of tax shall be
separately stated from the amount of the rent charged, and each transient shall
receive a receipt for payment from the operator. No hotel operator shall
advertise or state in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax
or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it
will not be added to the rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded
except in the manner hereinafter provided. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.8.5: RECORDS MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of every operator to keep accurate books and records to
which the finance director, or authorized representative, shall at all times
have full access, which records shall include the following:
   A.   The name of the operator;
   B.   The operator's residence address and address of his principal place of
business and the address of the principal place of business (if that is a
different address) from which he engages in the business of renting, leasing or
letting rooms in a hotel in the state of Illinois;
   C.   The total amount of rental receipts received during the preceding
calendar month from renting, leasing or letting rooms during such preceding
calendar month;
   D.   The total amount of rental receipts received during the preceding
calendar month from renting, leasing or letting rooms to permanent residents
during such preceding calendar month;
   E.   The total amount of other exclusions from gross rental receipts allowed
by this chapter;
   F.   The gross rental receipts which were received during the preceding
calendar month and upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
   G.   The amount of the tax due; and
   H.   Such other reasonable information as the city may require.
The finance director, or authorized representative, may enter the premises of
any hotel for inspection and examination of books and records in order to
effectuate the proper administration of this chapter and to assure the
enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any
person to prevent, hinder or interfere with the finance director, or authorized
representative, in the discharge of his duties in the performance of this
chapter. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.8.6: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX REVENUE:
Every person operating a hotel shall file tax returns showing tax receipts
received with respect to each hotel during each three (3) month period ending
January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31, of each year, within thirty (30)
days after the end of the respective date, upon forms prescribed by the rules
and regulations of the city. Each return shall be accompanied by payment to the
city of all taxes due and owing for the quarter covered by the return. (Ord.
19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.8.7: REFUNDS:
   A.   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid,
or paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the city under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in
subsections B and C of this section provided a written claim, stating under
penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is
filed with the finance director within one year of the date of payment. The
claim shall be on forms furnished by the finance director.
   B.   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the finance director that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not a transient; provided, however, that neither a refund nor a
credit shall be allowed if the amount of the tax so collected has either been
refunded to the transient or credited to rent subsequently payable by the
transient to the operator.
   C.   A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than
once or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city by filing a
claim in the manner provided in subsection A of this section, but only when the
tax was paid by the transient directly to the finance director, or when the
transient having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction
of the finance director that the transient has been unable to obtain a refund
from the operator who collected the tax.
   D.   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing entitlement.
(Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.8.8: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS FROM TAX AND PENALTIES:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this chapter,
including penalties, shall be deposited in the general corporate fund of the
city and be subsequently budgeted and directed solely for the promotion of
tourism and conventions within the city or to otherwise attract nonresident and
overnight visitors to the city. These funds shall not be used for advertisement
or promotion of new competition in the hotel/motel industry in the city. (Ord.
19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.9: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX:
3.2.9.1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
ACT: The simplified municipal telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
act.
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in the city
regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the city and for all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money whether paid in
money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
this state, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
this state, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within Illinois. However, "gross charge" shall not include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this chapter, 2) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, 4) 911 surcharges, or 5) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-221 or
5/9-222 (the public utilities act), as amended, or any similar charges added to
customers' bills by retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the
Illinois commerce commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax
liabilities or other amounts specified in those provisions of the public
utilities act;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of such
municipality;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/9-222.1 (the public utilities act) to the extent of such
exemption and during the period of time specified by the department.
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
the act has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that the
charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or between
wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the corporations
and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering such service;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices; or
   I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 635/1 et seq. (the telecommunications municipal infrastructure
maintenance fee act).
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of
any court, the federal and state governments, including state universities
created by statute, or any city, town, county or other political subdivision of
this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined herein. The department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment
of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services and equipment provided in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 638/1 et seq. (the mobile telecommunications
sourcing conformity act). For air to ground systems and the like, "service
address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's primary use of the
telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number, authorization
code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in the city and who incurs a tax liability as authorized by
this chapter.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, private
line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter, computer
exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service, specialized
mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service or any other form of
mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. As used in this chapter, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under the act. For purposes of this section,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in 35
Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2-27 (the retailers' occupation tax act). (Ord.
19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.9.2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six
percent (6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six
percent (6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such
other state which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
state or local tax in this state.
   C.   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on such act or privilege
to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.9.3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this chapter shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale
at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.9.4: RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT:
Commencing February 1, 2003, the tax imposed under this chapter on
telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the department pursuant to 636/5-50 of the act and
any accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to implement
the act. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.9.5: RESELLERS:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this chapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of originating
or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax free on the
grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active resale
number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.9.6: REPEALER:
If public act 92-0526, simplified municipal telecommunications tax act, is
repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason, or if this chapter is repealed
or becomes ineffective for any reason, then ordinance 2627 passed May 7, 1996,
an ordinance amending this title implementing a telecommunications tax within
the city of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois, and ordinance 2707 passed
November 4, 1997, an ordinance amending this code by imposing a municipal
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee shall be deemed in full force
and effect as of the date public act 92-0526 or this chapter is repealed or
becomes ineffective. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.10: HOME RULE SALES TAX:
3.2.10.1: PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to impose a Home Rule Municipal
Retailers' Occupation Tax and Service Occupation Tax. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-
2019)
3.2.10.2: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED:
Effective January 1, 2018, a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in
the business of selling tangible personal property, other than an item of
tangible personal property titled and registered with an agency of this State's
government, at retail in the City of Woodstock at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business. Such
"Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax" shall not be applicable to the
sale of food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the premises
where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has
been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and non-prescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics. The imposition of this Home Rule Tax is
pursuant to the provisions of section 8-11-5 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
(Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.10.3: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED:
Effective January 1, 2018, a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in
the City of Woodstock in the business of making sales of service, at the rate
of one percent (1.0%) of the selling price of all tangible personal property
transferred by such serviceman, either in the form of tangible personal
property or in the form of real estate, as an incident to a sale of service.
Such "Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax" shall not be applicable to
the sales of food for human consumption, which is to be consumed off the
premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food
which has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and non-
prescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing
materials, and syringes and needles used by diabetics. The imposition of this
Home Rule Tax is pursuant to the provisions of section 8-11-5 of the Illinois
Municipal Code. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.10.4: COLLECTION BY STATE:
The taxes hereby imposed and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.11: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
3.2.11.1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the City at the rate of three
percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that
business.
   B.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22). (Ord. 19-
O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.11.2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any State tax that sellers are required to collect.
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2.12: AMUSEMENT TAX:
   A.   Applicability Of Provisions: The provisions of this Section, except as
otherwise provided, shall apply to all amusements as hereinafter defined,
whether specifically licensed or regulated under other provisions of this code
or other ordinances, or not.
   B.   Definitions:
   AMUSEMENT:
      a.   Any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance, motion
picture show, flower, poultry or animal show, animal act, circus, rodeo,
athletic contest, sport, game or similar exhibition for public entertainment,
including, without being limited to, boxing, wrestling, skating, dancing,
swimming, racing, or riding on animals or vehicles, baseball, basketball,
softball, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and field games, bowling,
billiard and pool games;
      b.   Any entertainment offered for public participation, including,
without being limited to, dancing, carnival, amusement park rides and games,
bowling, billiard and pool games, or any Video Gaming Terminal.
   TERMINAL OPERATOR: Any individual, partnership, corporation, or limited
liability company that is licensed under the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et
seq., and that owns, services, and maintains Video Gaming Terminals for
placement in licensed establishments, licensed truck stop establishments,
licensed large truck stop establishments, licensed fraternal establishments, or
licensed veterans establishments.
   PERSON: Any natural individual that participates in an amusement, including
a firm, organization, society, foundation, institution, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability company,
public or private corporation, receiver, executor, trustee or other
representative appointed by order of any court, or any other entity recognized
by law.
   PLAY: Each individual push of the Video Gaming Terminal which initiates the
simulation provided by the Video Gaming Terminal. Play shall not include the
push of individual wager amounts, selection of types of games on the Video
Gaming Terminal or entry of any information or printing of winning receipts.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any combination thereof, is
available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including but not
limited to video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the Illinois
Gaming Board utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player
may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does
not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only.
   C.   Amusement Tax Imposed:
      1.   Push Tax:
         a.   Except as otherwise provided by this section, an amusement tax is
imposed upon any person who participates in the play of a Video Gaming Terminal
that takes place within the jurisdictional boundaries of the City of Woodstock.
         b.   The rate of the tax shall be equal to $0.01 (one cent) per play
on a Video Gaming Terminal.
         c.   The Terminal Operator of a Video Gaming Terminal may separately
itemize and charge each person who plays a Video Gaming Terminal.
      2.   Tax Additional: The tax imposed in this Section is in addition to
all other taxes imposed by the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation
or political subdivision thereof.
      3.   Registration:
         a.   Every Terminal Operator of a Video Gaming Terminal(s) located in
the City of Woodstock shall apply for registration as a tax collector with the
City no later than thirty (30) days after commencing such business or thirty
(30) days after the effective date of this Section imposing the Push Tax,
whichever occurs later.
         b.   The application shall be submitted to the City on the forms
provided by the City and contain such information as reasonably required by the
City to impose, collect, and audit all amounts related to the Push Tax.
      4.   Collection, Payment, and Accounting:
         a.   It shall be the joint and several duty of every Terminal Operator
of a Video Gaming Terminal(s) to secure from each person participating in the
play of a Video Gaming Terminal the Push Tax imposed by this Section.
         b.   For purposes of this section, it shall be presumed that the
amount of the Push Tax imposed on each person, unless the taxpayer or tax
collector provides otherwise with books, records, or other documentary
evidence, has been collected from the person by the Terminal Operator.
         c.   Push Tax payments accompanied by tax returns prescribed by the
City shall be remitted to the City on or before the 20th day of the month
following the month in which payment for the Push Tax is made.
         d.   Every Terminal Operator of a Video Gaming Terminal who is
required to collect the Push Tax by this Section shall be considered a tax
collector for the City. All Push Tax amounts collected shall be held by the
Terminal Operator as trustee for and on behalf of the City. The failure of the
Operator to collect the tax shall not excuse or release the person from the
obligation to pay the tax.
         e.   The ultimate incidence of the Push Tax shall remain on the person
and shall never be shifted to the Terminal Operator.
         f.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in order to
permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the City, no person shall be
entitled to a refund of, or credit for, the Push Tax imposed by this Section
unless the person files a claim for a refund or credit within one (1) year
after the date on which the Push Tax was paid or remitted to the City.
         g.   The Terminal Operator of any Video Gaming Terminal(s) shall be
subject to audit, inspection, and record keeping provisions of this Code.
         h.   It shall be unlawful for any Terminal Operator and/or person to
prevent, hinder, or interfere with the City's Officials, employees, and/or
agents designated to discharge their respective duties in the performance and
enforcement of the provisions of this Section.
         i.   It is the duty of every Terminal Operator of a Video Gaming
Terminal(s) to keep accurate and complete books and records to which the City's
officials, employees, and/or agents will at all times have full access.
      5.   Rules and Regulations; Authorized: The City Finance Director is
authorized to adopt, promulgate, and enforce any additional rules and
regulations pertaining to the interpretation, collection, administration, and
enforcement of this Section.
      6.   Application of City Code: Any citation under this section may be in
addition to any other citations issued by the City under any and all applicable
sections of the City Code.
      7.   Violations; Penalties: It shall be a violation of this section for a
Terminal Operator to fail to file a report within the time prescribed in this
section.
         a.   Report Required: A Terminal Operator who falsely reports or fails
to report the amount of Push Tax due as required by this section shall be in
violation of this section and is subject to the suspension and/or revocation of
their Terminal Operator License. All payments not remitted when due shall be
paid together with a penalty assessment on the unpaid balance at a rate of 1.5%
per month.
         b.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: The Local Liquor
Commissioner or his or her designee shall have the power to suspend for not
more than thirty (30) days or revoke any video gaming license issued under the
provisions of this Code for cause, or if he/she determines that a Terminal
Operator shall have violated any of the provisions of this section, any of the
statutes of the State or any other valid ordinance or resolution enacted by the
corporate authorities of the City. However, no such license shall be revoked or
suspended except after the holding of a public hearing by the Local Liquor
Commissioner or his or her designee. Ten (10) days' notice of the hearing shall
be given to the Terminal Operator. Alternatively, the Terminal Operator shall
have the opportunity to engage in a prehearing conference and agree to
negotiated penalties rather than proceed to a hearing.
         c.   Fine Imposed: In addition, any Terminal Operator violating the
provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) for the first offense, and five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
the second offense and seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a third
offense and subject to a revocation of any license to operate a Video Gaming
Terminal for the third offense.
         d.   Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
         e.   It shall be deemed a violation of this section for any person to
knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the City. (Ord. 21-O-61,
10- 31-2021)
CHAPTER 2A
LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAXPAYERS’ BILL OF RIGHTS
SECTION:
3.2A.1: Definitions
3.2A.2: Notices
3.2A.3: Late Payment
3.2A.4: Payment
3.2A.5: Certain Credits And Refunds
3.2A.6: Audit Procedure
3.2A.7: Appeal
3.2A.8: Hearing
3.2A.9: Interest And Penalties
3.2A.10: Abatement
3.2A.11: Installment Contracts
3.2A.12: Statute Of Limitations
3.2A.13: Voluntary Disclosure
3.2A.14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
3.2A.15: Internal Review Procedure
3.2A.16: Application
3.2A.1: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to those terms defined in this code, certain words or terms herein
shall have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
ACT: The Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The City Treasurer and any staff, employees or agents
to the extent they are authorized by the City Treasurer to act in the City
Treasurer's stead. The City Treasurer shall have the authority to implement the
terms of this Chapter to give full effect to this Chapter. The exercise of such
authority by the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
Chapter and the Act.
LOCALLY-IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX: Each tax imposed by the City that is
collected or administered by the City, not an agency or department of the
state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the City.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the City's locally-imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance passed by the City that imposes any locally-
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally-imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally-imposed and administered tax to the
City. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2A.2: NOTICES:
   A.   Whenever notice is required to be given under this Chapter, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
      1.   Any notice of tax assessment due must be sent by United States
registered or certified mail.
      2.   For all other required notices, either:
         (a)   First class, express mail or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address; or
         (b)   Personal service or delivery.
   B.   Whenever the local tax administrator issues a protestable notice of tax
due, a bill, a claim denial or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax,
the written notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment or other determination;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment or other determination
(which may be satisfied by including a copy of this Chapter, The Local
Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights);
      4.   The obligations of the City during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process (which may be satisfied by including a copy of this Chapter,
The Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights); and
      5.   Such other information as may be required by this Chapter. (Ord. 19-
O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2A.3: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the City
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the City on or before the due date, or b) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postal service
postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to the City, with
adequate postage prepaid. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2A.4: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   A.   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
   B.   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   C.   Third to the penalty for the applicable period. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-
2019)
3.2A.5: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   The City shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally-imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be two
(2) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The City shall not grant a credit or refund of locally-imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the City.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally-imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally-imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally-imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the City.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month (1%), from the
date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or the grant
of a credit. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2A.6: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit of the taxpayer's books and records pursuant to
any locally-administered tax shall be in writing to the taxpayer and shall
comply with the notice requirements of this Chapter.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period to be audited;
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor; and
      4.   An identification of who will be conducting the audit, and in the
case of a third-party auditor, the City must provide written authorization for
them to review the books and records of the taxpayer before such third-party
auditor contacts the taxpayer.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and not less
than seven (7) days nor more than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is
given. However, if the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is
not agreeable to the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the
taxpayer. If such time is convenient to the local tax administrator, the local
tax administrator may approve the new date in writing and shall have the
discretion to grant an extension to this time period.
   C.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the City.
   D.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the City. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the local
tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the tax
administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's tax
liability.
   E.   Upon the completion of an audit, the City must issue an audit closure
report to the taxpayer with the results of the audit.
   F.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally-
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the City's determination of the amount of overpayment. If the overpayment is
the result of the incorrect application of some or all of the taxpayer's tax
payment to the City instead of to another local government entity, then upon a
request by that other unit of local government, the audit information must be
given to any unit of local government that may be affected by the overpayment.
(Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2A.7: APPEAL:
   A.   A taxpayer shall have the right to appeal a determination of a tax due.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or a notice of tax liability, may protest such
finding by filing with the local tax administrator a written protest and
petition for hearing, setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a
hearing. The written protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the
local tax administrator within forty-five (45) days of receipt of the written
notice of the tax determination and assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty-five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty-five
(45) day period. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2A.8: HEARING:
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
3.2A.7 of this Chapter, the City Manager shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing, the City Manager shall preside and shall hear testimony
and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit or assessment.
The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings shall not
apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Manager shall make a written
determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing. The
taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the written
decision. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2A.9: INTEREST, PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT COSTS:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest on Late and Unpaid Taxes: In the event any taxpayer fails to
collect and pay to the City the tax required hereunder within thirty (30) days
after the same is due, interest shall accumulate and be due upon said tax at
the rate of one percent (1%) per month commencing as of the first day of the
month following the month of which the tax was to have been collected.
   B.   Late Payment Penalty: If a tax is due and not timely paid to the City,
a late payment penalty of five percent (5%) of the tax due shall be imposed in
addition to any other interest due under this Chapter. A late payment penalty
shall not apply if a Failure to File Penalty is imposed under this Chapter
3.2A.9(C).
   C.   Failure to File Penalty: If no return has been filed prior to the City
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed.
   D.   Suit For Collection: Whenever any taxpayer fails to pay any tax or
penalty required herein, the City Attorney shall, upon the request of the City
Treasurer, bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of
said tax on behalf of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction or in any
authorized administrative tribunal. Any legal fees incurred by the City in the
cost of collection shall be paid by the taxpayer. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2A.10: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2A.11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
At the discretion of the local tax administrator, on behalf of the City, the
local tax administrator may, but is not required to, enter into an installment
contract with the taxpayer for the payment of taxes under the controlling tax
ordinance. The local tax administrator may not cancel any installment contract
so entered unless the taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing on time
and fails to cure the delinquency in the time allowed in the installment
contract or if the taxpayer fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring
any installment plan agreement or contract with the local tax administrator.
(Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2A.12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The City, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns in
a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing.
The taxpayer shall have forty-five (45) days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   A.   No notice of determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than
four (4) years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or the end of the calendar year in which the return
for the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
City, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due for
that period, the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after
the end of the calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was
due or end of the calendar year in which the return for the applicable period
was filed, whichever occurs later.
   C.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2A.13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally-imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application, but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this Section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
Chapter must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-
2019)
3.2A.14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the City
Clerk's office. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2A.15: INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the City's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
It shall not be considered an improper lien under this section when a validly-
imposed lien is removed because the taxpayer has ultimately satisfied their
outstanding tax, interest and penalties liability. The taxpayer shall bear the
cost to remove such a lien. (Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
3.2A.16: APPLICATION:
This Chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the City's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict
with or inconsistent with this Chapter, this Chapter shall be controlling.
(Ord. 19-O-103, 12-18-2019)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3.3.1: Definitions
3.3.2: License Required
3.3.3: Application and Eligibility Requirements
3.3.4: Insurance Requirements
3.3.5: Video Gaming Terminals
3.3.6: Rules Of General Applicability Regarding Licenses, Number and Fees
3.3.7: Privilege Granted by License
3.3.8: Term Of Licenses
3.3.9: Renewal Of License
3.3.10: Closing Hours
3.3.11: Location Restrictions
3.3.12: Views Into Building Required
3.3.13: Sanitary Requirements
3.3.13.5: Public Safety Requirements
3.3.14: Prohibited Acts and Conditions
3.3.15: Minors
3.3.16: Keg Tagging
3.3.17: Revocation, Suspension or Fine
3.3.18: Hearings Before the Commissioner
3.3.19: General Provisions
3.3.20: Inspections And Enforcement
3.3.21: Social Hosting
3.3.22: Window Sign Limitations
3.3.23: Fees And Costs For Liquor Licenses
3.3.1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter have the following meanings:
   ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
   BANQUET HALL: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held
out to the public where meals and/or beverages are served to a group or groups
of people not less than twenty five (25) persons, without sleeping
accommodations, such place being provided with adequate sanitary kitchen and
dining room equipment and capacity.
   BEER: A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water and includes among
other things beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and similar beverages.
   BOWLING LANE BUSINESS: A business in which the principal income therefrom is
derived from the operation of bowling lanes open to the public and which is
advertised to the public as a bowling lane.
   BREWPUB: A person who manufactures no more than 155,000 gallons of beer per
year only at a designated premises to make sales to importing distributors,
distributors and to nonlicensees for use and consumption only, who stores beer
at the designated premises and who is allowed to sell it at retail from the
licensed premises, provided that the licensee shall not sell for off premises
consumption more than 155,000 gallons per year.
   CATERER RETAILER: A person who serves alcoholic liquor for consumption,
either on site or off site, whether the location is licensed or unlicensed, as
an incidental part of food service. Prepared meals and alcoholic liquors are
sold at a package price agreed upon under contract.
   CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this State, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building, of such extent and character as may be
suitable and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation
of its members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen
and dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of
servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for
its members and their guests; provided, that such club files with the
Commissioner at the time of its application for a license under this chapter
two (2) copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly
files within ten (10) days of the election of any additional member his name
and address; and, provided further, that its affairs and management are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen
by the members at their annual meeting and that no member or any officer,
agent, or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in
the form of salary or other compensation any profits from the distribution or
sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests
introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and
voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or
other governing body out of the general revenue of the club 1 .
   COMMISSIONER: The Mayor of the City who is charged with the administration
of this chapter in the City.
   CRIMINAL CODE: The Illinois Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.,
as amended.
   GOLF CLUB: Any place kept, used, maintained, either privately or advertised
and held out to the public as a place where golf is played on an established
and maintained golf course and containing a clubroom or clubhouse containing
locker rooms, and a restaurant either for the public or for its members.
   HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty five
(25) or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests,
such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same
building or buildings in connection therewith and such building, buildings,
structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and
dining room equipment and capacity 2 .
   LIQUOR CONTROL ACT: The Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-1 et seq., as amended.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed
and labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey
any alcoholic liquor 3 .
   RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually
and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAIL SALE: To Sell at Retail and Sale at Retail as defined below.
   RETAILER: A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use
or consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes and
means all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee. The term "sale" includes any transfer of alcoholic liquor
from a foreign importer's license to an importing distributor's license even if
both licenses are held by the same person.
   SELL AT RETAIL, SALE AT RETAIL: Refers to and means sales for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form 4 . Also referred to as Retail Sale.
   SPECIAL USE LICENSE: A license for use by a retailer to allow the transfer
of alcoholic beverages from an existing licensed retail premises to a
designated site for a special event.
   SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances 5 .
   TAVERN: An establishment where liquors are sold to be consumed on the
premises but not including restaurants where the principal business is the
serving of food.
   TO SELL: Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to sell
6 .
   WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, vegetables, or honey, containing sugar, including mead and
such beverages, when fortified by the addition of alcohol or “spirits”, as
defined herein 7 .
In addition to the definitions in this section, definitions found in the
Illinois Liquor Control Act and the rules and regulations of the Illinois
Liquor Control Commission are incorporated herein as applicable. To the extent
that definitions found in the Illinois Liquor Control Act conflict with
definitions contained herein, the definitions contained herein shall control.
(Ord. 15-O-25, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 17-O-75, 9-5-2017; Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-
2023)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.25.
2 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.25.
3 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.06.
4 2. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.18.
5 3. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.02.
6 4. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.22.
7 5. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.03.
3.3.2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall sell or offer for sale at retail in the City any alcoholic
liquor without having a retail liquor dealer's license, or in violation of the
terms of such license or any statute, law or this Code. (Ord. 15-O-25, 4-21-
2015)
3.3.3: APPLICATION AND ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Prior to submitting an application, any interested applicant shall
first confirm with the Commissioner whether there is a moratorium on the class
of liquor license in question under Section
3.3.6(B) of this Code and shall provide the Commissioner with information
sufficient for the Commissioner to determine whether or not such moratorium
should be lifted.
   B.   Applications for a liquor license shall be filed with the Commissioner
in such manner as may be directed by the Commissioner.
   C.   No City liquor license shall be issued to any applicant who (i) is not
qualified to receive a license under state law, or (ii) who is specifically
prohibited from receiving a liquor license pursuant to state law at 235 ILCS 5/
6-2, as may be subsequently amended.
   D.   Sole Proprietor applicants are required to reside within the City.
   E.   All applicants must certify that at all times a licensed establishment
is open for business, either (i) an authorized licensee, or (ii) a manager or
agent who possesses the same qualifications required of the licensee, shall be
on the premises.
   F.   All applicants must obtain and submit proof of insurance as required by
this Chapter.
   G.   Applicant must agree in writing to save and hold harmless the City of
Woodstock from any and all claims arising out of consumption of alcoholic
liquor on the premises.
   H.   Outstanding Debts: No licenses shall be issued or renewed to any
applicant who is indebted to the City for any amount that is past due.
   I.   Investigation Of Applicant:
      1.   No license shall be issued hereunder until the applicant shall have
been investigated by the Commissioner and a report filed in the records of the
Commissioner. As a part of this investigation, the Commissioner shall require
fingerprints of all new applicants and shall have the right to require
fingerprints of any applicant for renewal thereof. A copy of fingerprints may
be held on record by the Chief of Police or his or her designee. Applicant
shall be responsible for all costs and fees incurred by the City associated
with this investigation including but not limited to the fees for fingerprints
and any criminal background checks.
      2.   The Commissioner or their authorized agent shall have the right to
examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license
or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or
suspension has been served, and to examine or cause to be examined, the books
and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof
for this information in the performance of the Commissioner’s duties.
   J.   Application Fee: Except for Class K and N Licenses, a nonrefundable
application fee in the amount of established by the City Manager as authorized
by this Chapter shall be payable upon initial application, which shall be
applied to the license upon issuance of the license (less any amount due to the
City to reimburse the City for the costs of any fingerprint or criminal
background check fees paid by the City in the course of consideration of the
applicant’s application for a liquor license).
   K.   Conditions: All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
subject to any and all changes or amendments to this chapter and to any and all
rules adopted by the Commissioner. All licenses shall be subject to any
restrictions or conditions deemed desirable by the Commissioner to ensure
compliance with this Chapter or to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
   L.   The issuance of a liquor license, regardless of class, shall be deemed
to include any representations contained in the application for the respective
class of license as well as a representation by the applicant to comply with
all requirements of Illinois and City liquor laws or ordinances. Any false
statement or misrepresentation in an application or in all other information
submitted with the application shall be deemed grounds for immediate revocation
of the license granted pursuant to that application. Any violation of the terms
and conditions of any liquor license, including representations and information
submitted on or with the application, shall be grounds for the issuance of a
fine or the suspension or revocation of the license as provided in this
chapter.
   M.   All licenses shall be for a term not to exceed one (1) year and shall
expire at the end of April 30 of each year, after the date of issuance,
regardless of the date when issued.
   N.   If the application is approved and a license is issued, all owners, on-
site managers, and employees that serve alcohol and/or check for legal age
shall take and successfully complete a Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers
Education and Training (BASSET) Program that has been certified by the State of
Illinois. A copy of the BASSET course completion certificate(s) for each such
person always shall be made available, at the licensed premises for inspection
by the City.
   O.   Unless an extension is approved by the Commissioner, an applicant for a
liquor license shall have sixty (60) calendar days following approval of the
license by the City Council in which to pick up the physical license from the
Commissioner. If the applicant fails to pick up the physical license within the
sixty-day time period, the license shall automatically expire, and, if the
applicant still wishes to obtain a license, the applicant will be required to
submit a new application with fees for City approval through the normal review
process. (23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.4: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required Insurance for All Applicants/License Holders: Every
application for any class of license, including special event and BYOB
licenses, shall be accompanied by a certificate of insurance that evidences
that the applicant and the applicant’s premises have or will have dram shop
(liquor liability) insurance with minimum coverages of at least one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
in the aggregate in full force and effect throughout the time period covered by
the license.
   B.   Additional Requirements for Sales in the City’s Right-of-Way and City-
Owned Property. For any applicant who is permitted to or seeks to sell, serve,
or allow the consumption of alcoholic liquor on any City right-of-way or real
property owned by the City, the applicant must also provide evidence that the
required insurance includes coverage for such right-of-way or City-owned real
property.?
   C.   Policy Must be Acceptable to Commissioner. All required insurance
policies shall be issued by a responsible insurance company, authorized and
licensed to do business in the State of Illinois, and acceptable to the
Commissioner.
   D.   Policy Must Name City as Additional Named Insured. All required
insurance policies shall specifically name the City of Woodstock as an
additional named insured.
   E.   Policy Must be in Effect at All Times as a Condition of License.
      1.   The license holder may not operate at any time without the required
insurance in place.
      2.   All certificates of insurance shall provide that the insurance
coverage may not be cancelled unless written notice is given to the City at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the effective date of such cancellation. In
addition, all license holders must notify the Commissioner of any cancellation
in or change to the required insurance.
      3.   In the event insurance coverage is expected to or does lapse,
regardless of reason, during the time period covered by the license, the
licensee shall promptly provide the city with a new certificate of insurance
evidencing dram shop coverage in the aforesaid amounts.
      4.   If the licensee is unable to obtain such replacement dram shop
insurance coverage, licensee shall promptly notify the City and shall
immediately cease selling, serving, and allowing the consumption of alcoholic
liquor until such time as licensee procures dram shop insurance coverage at the
limits described in this section.
      5.   The failure of the applicant/licensee to have such insurance
coverage in full force and effect at any time during the term of its liquor
license shall be cause for the immediate suspension and for the revocation of
the liquor license. (Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.5: VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS:
   A.   Liquor License with Video Gaming: Video Gaming shall only be permitted
as authorized by this section and in a manner consistent with state law and
regulations. If a liquor license associated with video gaming is available
under the A, C, D, E and I classification, then an applicant may apply for such
a City-issued license provided they meet the following additional criteria:
      1.   The applicant/license holder must maintain their liquor license
eligibility under the City’s Code and any fees due for video gaming licensing
shall be in addition to those required for ordinary liquor licensing without
video gaming.
      2.   The applicant/license holder must comply with all City Code
provisions.
      3.   The applicant/license holder must be licensed by the Illinois Gaming
Board and always comply with the Illinois Video Gaming Act, as may be amended
(230 ILCS 40/1 et. seq.) and with its associated regulations.
   B.   All license applications seeking video gaming authority must be
reviewed by and are subject to the approval of both the Commissioner and the
City Council to determine whether the conditions of this Chapter can be or have
been reasonably met prior to issuance of any liquor license permitting video
gaming.
   C.   Gaming Terminals: No more than six (6) video gaming terminals shall be
permitted in and upon the premises used or occupied as a place holding a valid
City issued liquor license if each of the following conditions is first met:
      1.   The use and placement thereof is in compliance with the provisions
of the Video Gaming Act, as amended; and
      2.   The use and placement thereof is in compliance with the provisions
of all rules promulgated by the Illinois Gaming Board pursuant to the Illinois
Administrative Procedures Act;
      3.   The terminal operator or agent of the operator:
         a.   Pays an annual video gaming permit fee in the amount established
by the City Manager as authorized by this Chapter.
         b.   The annual fee shall be due and payable upon application for
issuance or renewal. Permits shall be for not longer than a one-year period
from May 1 of each year to April 30 of each following year, unless sooner
revoked or suspended. All video gaming permits, regardless of date of issuance,
shall terminate on April 30 of each year following the date of issuance.
         c.   This fee is not in lieu of any fee or payment payable to the
State or the Illinois Gaming Board or of any liquor license fees otherwise due
and payable under this Chapter.
      4.   The licensee or agent of the licensee:
         a.   Files with their application a copy of the licensee’s written use
agreement with the terminal operator for placement of the video gaming
terminals and a copy of the license issued by the Illinois Gaming Board as well
as, to the extent possible, a copy of a diagram approved by the Illinois Gaming
Board that shows the authorized location of the terminals and which are not
visible from outside the licensee’s premises; and
         b.   Pays to the City an annual video gaming license fee plus an
annual video gaming terminal fee for each video gaming terminal upon the
premises all in the amounts established by the City Manager as authorized by
this Chapter; except for liquor license Classification C (club licenses) which
establishments shall pay no annual video gaming license permit fee and shall
pay an annual video gaming terminal fee in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100) for each video gaming terminal upon the premises.
         c.   The annual video gaming license fee and annual gaming terminal
fee shall be due and payable upon application for issuance or renewal. Licenses
shall be for not longer than a one-year period from May 1st of each year to
April 30th of each following year, unless sooner revoked or suspended. All
licenses, regardless of date of issuance, shall terminate on April 30th of each
year following the date of issuance.
         d.   This fee is not in lieu of any fee or payment payable to the
State or the Illinois Gaming Board or of any liquor license fees otherwise due
and payable under this Chapter.
      5.   In the event the total number of video gaming terminals at any
licensee site increase after the payment of any annual fee, the licensee and
Terminal Operator are jointly and severally responsible for notifying the City
of such change and for ensuring that the licensee and the Terminal Operator pay
any additional fees due to the City for such increase.
      6.   All truck stops of any sort approved for video gaming by the
Illinois Gaming Board, are subject to all of the provisions of this section and
responsible for paying all annual fees provided for within this section,
whether or not they hold a City-issued liquor license.
   D.   Hours Of Operation: No video gaming terminal that is permitted under
the provisions of this section may be played except during the legal hours of
operation allowed for the consumption of alcoholic beverages on the licensed
premises.
   E.   Signage: No video gaming signage or advertising of any type or size,
including, but not limited to, posters, paper signage, fliers, neon signage,
banners, video or audio feed, or any other form of advertisement, shall be
allowed on the exterior of the licensed establishment or on the inside of such
establishment if such signage is visible from the outside in any way including,
but not limited to, visibility through any window or door areas facing the
public way. Temporary exterior permitted signage would be exempted for a
business within sixty (60) days of original initiation of video gaming
operations.
   F.   Inspection: The City may inspect or cause the inspection of any place
or building in which any such terminal is operated or set up for operation to
ensure that the facilities are operated in a manner consistent with the public
health, safety and welfare and in a manner consistent with both State law and
regulations and City ordinances.
   G.   Video Gaming Cafes Prohibited.
      1.   A Video Gaming Café shall not be qualified to obtain a City liquor
license and is prohibited from becoming a licensed video gaming location within
the City. Further, no license allowing Video Gaming Cafes shall be created,
maintained or authorized by this Chapter. A Video Gaming Café is an
establishment for which the primary or a major focus of the establishment is
video gaming and the service of alcohol; food is secondary to the operation of
video gaming regardless of the percent of total gross revenue from gaming
operations. The following factors may be considered when determining if the
establishment is a Video Gaming Café:
         a.   The layout and design of the establishment;
         b.   The preparation and variety of food and beverages offered;
         c.   The creation and operation of a commercial kitchen on the premise
where gaming is situated;
         d.   The number of video gaming machines relative to the customer
seating capacity of the establishment;
         e.   The square footage of space devoted to video gaming relative to
the amount of space devoted to other activities;
         f.   The source of proposed or actual revenue derived from the
establishment;
         g.   The number of employees at the establishment and their proposed
function; and
         h.   Any other factors deemed relevant by the Commissioner.
      2.   The restrictions of this section related to Video Gaming Cafés will
not apply to existing license holders who have been issued their liquor license
with video gaming by the City prior to the addition of this section to the
City’s Code by this Ordinance No. 21-O-63 until such time as their liquor
licenses with video gaming lapse, terminate or otherwise end.
      3.   Upon the request of the Commissioner, as a condition of the grant or
renewal of a liquor license for an establishment offering video gaming or at
any time during the term of the license, any such license holder shall provide
financial, tax and operational records to the City sufficient to demonstrate
that they are not a Video Gaming Café. In the event it is determined by the
Commissioner that a license holder is operating as a Video Gaming Café, their
liquor license permitting video gaming shall be revoked in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter or shall not be renewed; such a licensee may request
a hearing before the Commissioner to determine if they are eligible for a non-
gaming liquor license. For new applicants with no history of operations, they
must provide reasonable assurance to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that
they will not operate in violation of this section in their first year of
operations.
   H.   Banquet Hall/Event License with Video Gaming If the applicant/license
holder is the holder of an A-5 banquet hall/event license, any video gaming
license issued by the City shall only constitute a grant of authority to host
video gaming on their premises during hours when banquets or events are being
held. Video gaming must be ancillary to any banquet or event; gaming may not be
promoted as the primary purpose of any banquet or event; banquets and events
eligible for video gaming shall be those that are of an occasional nature and
shall not include banquets or events that are regularly scheduled or held open
to the public or to private parties for the primary purpose of permitting
alcohol service and gaming in a manner comparable to that of a bar, restaurant
or video gaming parlor.
   I.   Violation And Revocation: If a licensee violates any provision of the
Video Gaming Act or any provision related to video gaming terminals contained
in this section, such violation shall be deemed a violation of the licensee’s
liquor license. In addition, the Commissioner may revoke the City’s video
gaming terminal license for any violation of this section or of any ordinance
pertaining to the conduct of such business and may report any violations to the
Illinois State Gaming Board or other appropriate regulatory agency. (Ord. 15-O-
25, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 15-O-59, 10-6-2015, eff. 1-1-2016; Ord. 17-O-22, 3-7-
2017; Ord. 17-O-23, 3-7-2017; Ord. 17-O-36, 4-18-2017; Ord. 18-O-03, 1-16-2018;
Ord. 18-O-34, 5-15-2018; Ord. 19-O-10, 1-15-2019; Ord. 19-O-58, 7-16-2019; Ord.
20-O-37, 5-20-2020; Ord. 21-O-12, 2-16-2021; Ord. 21-O-26, 4-6-2021; Ord. 21-O-
41, 7-20-2021; Ord. 21-O-42, 8-3-2021; Ord. 21-O-44, 8-17-2021; Ord. 21-O-63,
12-7-2021; Ord. 23-O-51, 11-7-2023; Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023; Ord. 24-O-14, 2-
20-2024)
3.3.6: RULES OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY REGARDING LICENSES, NUMBER AND FEES:
   A.   The following rules apply to all liquor licenses and applicants for
liquor licenses within the City:
      1.   License as a Privilege not a Right: It is acknowledged that the
business of selling alcoholic liquors at retail (and of offering video gaming
at such an establishment) is a privilege, not a right. It is also acknowledged
that when not properly done, it is a business fraught with danger to the
community which raises peculiarly local problems pertaining to the public
health, safety and morals of the community. By establishing a maximum number of
liquor licenses in any particular classification (including those with video
gaming permitted), any license not yet created by the City Council shall not be
deemed to exist until such time as the City, by legislative action of the City
Council, has in fact created such a license. Accordingly, the City Council
hereby reserves the right in its sole discretion to create additional licenses
within any classification as it deems appropriate. Moreover, it is hereby
affirmed that the City, in its sole discretion, may determine from time to time
whether a moratorium in the creation of any new licenses shall be imposed to
promote, permit and regulate the orderly growth of liquor establishments (with
and without video gaming )in the City.
      2.   Alcohol Delivery: Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in
the classifications described in part (B) of this section, retail liquor
license holders shall be permitted to deliver alcoholic liquor to purchasers
for use or consumption to the extent permitted by Illinois law. To the extent
that Illinois law permits delivery within the licensed retailer’s parking lot
and curbside delivery for pickup by a consumer, the City also shall permit such
retailers to offer walk-up window retail sales.
      3.   Special Events: The Liquor Commissioner may grant existing retail
license holders authority to host special events consistent with the
requirements of Classifications K and N or other special event-type licenses
within the discretion of the Commissioner, as provided in part (B) of this
section.
   B.   License Classifications:
      1.   There shall be an indefinite moratorium on the acceptance of all
liquor license applications (including those that include video gaming), except
for Class K, KK, and N licenses. The Commissioner is authorized to waive the
City’s moratorium for accepting new liquor license applications for any license
classification, on a case-by-case basis and at the Commissioner’s discretion.
      If the Commissioner chooses to waive the moratorium, the business may
apply, the City may accept such application and the application is then
processed by the Liquor Commissioner for eventual consideration by the City
Council of licensure. If the Commissioner does not grant a waiver to the
moratorium for an application, then the petitioner may appeal this decision to
the Woodstock City Council.
      2.   Liquor Classifications A, C, D, E and I may also be eligible for
video gaming authorization pursuant to Section 3.3.5 of this City Code. In that
instance, such licenses will be identified with a V immediately following the
liquor license classification. Like other liquor licenses of the City, the
total number of such licenses is fixed by ordinance. However, in the event such
a license holder relinquishes or loses their authority for video gaming for any
reason (but they have not otherwise lost their liquor license), then their
liquor license shall be reclassified within the same classification but without
the “V” designation, and the City Manager (or designee) shall adjust the list
of authorized licenses in Section C below accordingly. By way of example, if a
licensee with an A-1-V license chooses to stop offering video gaming in the
middle of a license year, the City Manager may revise the table in Section C
below to reflect one fewer A-1-V license and one additional A-1 license and may
re-issue their license for the remainder of the year as an A-1 liquor license.
      3.   Liquor licenses (including those with video gaming) shall be divided
into the following classifications.
Classes
      A    (Various Retail Service Licenses)
         Permits the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption or use on the
licensed premises and the retail sale of beer and wine by package. Class A
licenses shall be divided into the following subdivisions:
         A-1 (Tavern)
            Permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption or use
on licensed premises including a bar, but not incidental to the service of food
and the retail sale of beer and wine by package.
         A-2 (Restaurant)
            Permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption or use
on the premises of a restaurant, as well as the retail sale of beer and wine by
package. For the purposes of this class A-2, a restaurant must derive more than
forty percent (40%) of its gross revenue (on an annual basis) from the sale of
food. The determination of whether the forty percent (40%) gross revenue
standard has been met shall be made at the time of license renewal for the year
just ended. In the event a licensee has not possessed a class A-2 license for a
full year, the determination of whether the forty percent (40%) standard has
been met shall be deferred until the next license renewal period. The records
used to determine whether said forty percent (40%) standard has been met shall
include, but not be limited to, audited financial statements, corporate
financial reports, tax return information, state liquor license reports, or any
other form of information deemed acceptable by the city.
         A-4 (Golf club)
            Permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption or use
on the premises of a golf club and the retail sale of beer and wine by package.
         A-5 (Banquet hall/event venue)
            Permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption or use
on the premises of a banquet hall or event venue for public or private events
held or sponsored by the licensee or his client and the retail sale of beer and
wine by package.
         A-6 (Restaurant/caterer)
            Permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption or use
on the premises of a restaurant as well as the retail sale of beer and wine by
package; and permits the restaurant to also serve alcoholic liquors as an
incidental part of food service that serves prepared meals, either on or off
the licensed restaurant premises. For the purposes of this class A-6, a
restaurant must derive more than forty percent (40%) of its gross revenue (on
an annual basis) from the sale of food. The determination of whether the forty
percent (40%) gross revenue standard has been met shall be made at the time of
license renewal for the year just ended. In the event a licensee has not
possessed a class A-6 license for a full year, the determination of whether the
forty percent (40%) standard has been met shall be deferred until the next
license renewal period. The records used to determine whether said forty
percent (40%) standard has been met shall include, but not be limited to,
audited financial statements, corporate financial reports, tax return
information, state liquor license reports, or any other form of information
deemed acceptable by the city.
         A-7 (Restaurant/caterer/brewpub)
            Permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption or use
on the premises of a restaurant/brewpub, the retail sale of beer and wine by
package, and the service of alcoholic liquors as an incidental part of food
services either on or off the licensed restaurant/brewpub premises. Also
permits the manufacture of beer, only on the premises specified in the license;
the sale of beer manufactured on the premises to importing distributors,
distributors and to nonlicensees for use and consumption; the storage of
manufactured beer upon the premises; and retail sale of the beer manufactured
on the premises of a restaurant/brewpub.
      B   (Permits the retail sale by package).
         B-1a (Liquor Store with no bar)
            Permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor by package only, but
not for consumption or use on the licensed premises, where more than 30 percent
(30%) of the public sales area is devoted to alcoholic liquor.
         B-1b (Combined Liquor Store with small bar)
            Permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor by package where more
than thirty percent (30%) of the public sales is devoted to alcoholic liquor.
Also permits the consumption or use on the licensed premises at a small bar
with eight or fewer seats and with no more than three (3) alcoholic drinks
served per customer during a single seating.
         B-2 (Convenience store)
            Permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor by package only, but
not for consumption or use on the licensed premises, where no more than thirty
percent (30%) of public sales area is devoted to alcoholic liquor.
         B-3 (Major retail/grocery stores, liquor generally)
            Permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor by package only, but
not for consumption or use on the licensed premises, where no more than ten
percent (10%) of the public sales area is devoted to alcoholic liquor.
         B-3a (Major retail/grocery stores)
            Permits the retail sale, service and consumption of alcoholic
liquor by package or use on the licensed premises, where no more than ten
percent (10%) of the public sales area is devoted to alcoholic liquor.
Alcoholic beverages must be consumed in the seating area, conference room or on
the secured outdoor patio. This also includes the consumption of alcoholic
beverages on the premises during tasting events.
         B-4a (Nonconvenience specialty store with consumption of wine only)
            Permits the retail sale of beer and wine by package, the retail
sale of wine for consumption or use on the premises, and the sampling of beer
and wine, with or without the service of food, on premises maintaining no bar
for the sale of alcoholic liquor.
         B-4b (Nonconvenience specialty store with consumption of beer and wine
only)
            Permits the retail sale of beer and wine by package, the retail
sale of beer and wine for consumption or use on the premises, and the sampling
of beer and wine, with or without the service of food, on premises maintaining
no bar for the sale of alcoholic liquor.
         B-4c (Nonconvenience specialty store with consumption of alcohol).
            Permits the retail sale of beer, wine and alcoholic spirits by
package, the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption or use on the
premises, and the sampling of beer, wine and alcoholic spirits with or without
the service of food, on premises maintaining no bar for the sale of alcoholic
liquor.
         B-5 (Nonconvenience specialty store)
            Permits the retail sale of beer and wine by package only, but not
for consumption or use on the licensed premises, and the sampling of beer and
wine on premises maintaining no bar or area reserved exclusively for the sale
of alcoholic liquor.
         B-6 (Gas station/convenience store)
            Permits the retail sale of beer and wine by package only in a
convenience store associated with the distribution and sales of gasoline and
where no more than thirty percent (30%) of the public sales area is devoted to
beer and wine.
         B-7 (Major retail/grocery stores - beer and wine only)
            Permits the retail sale of beer and wine by package only, but not
for consumption or use on the licensed premises, where no more than ten percent
(10%) of the public sales area is devoted to alcoholic liquor.
         B-8 (Nonconvenience specialty store with low volume sales)
            Permits the low volume retail sale of beer and wine by package
only, but not for consumption or use on the licensed premises, and the sampling
of beer and wine on premises maintaining no bar or area reserved exclusively
for the sale of alcoholic liquor where no more than twenty five percent (25%)
of the public sales area is devoted to alcoholic liquor and where the annual
sales for alcoholic liquor totals seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000.00) or
less. The determination that the sales restriction has not been exceeded shall
be made at the time of license renewal for the year just ended and records used
to make this determination shall be in any form deemed acceptable by the City.
This license also allows the transfer of a portion of beer and wine inventory
from the licensed premises to the premises of a special event for sales or
sampling but not for consumption.
         B-9 (Brewpub, distillery, vintner, or winery license)
            Permits the retail sale by package of beer or wine or alcoholic
liquor produced at the licensed production facilities of a small business
location of a brewpub, distillery, vintner or winery and the sampling of said
products. This license also permits the transfer of a portion of the produced
beer or wine or alcoholic inventory from the licensed premises to the premises
of a special event or the Woodstock Farmers’ Market for sampling and retail
sale of packaged beer or wine or alcoholic liquor.
      C   (Permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor by a club licensed for
consumption or use on the licensed premises only).
         C-1 (Larger club)
            Organizations with more than one thousand (1,000) members.
         C-2 (Club)
            Organizations with less than one thousand (1,000) members.
      D   (Restaurant with no bar).
         Permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption or use on
the licensed premises, incidental to the sale of food in premises maintaining
no barroom, tavern, lounge, or other area reserved exclusively for the sale of
alcoholic liquor. For the purposes of this class D, a restaurant must derive
more than forty percent (40%) of its gross revenue (on an annual basis) from
the sale of food. The determination of whether the forty percent (40%) gross
revenue standard has been met shall be made at the time of license renewal for
the year just ended. In the event a licensee has not possessed a class D
license for a full year, the determination of whether the forty percent (40%)
standard has been met shall be deferred until the next license renewal period.
The records used to determine whether said forty percent (40%) standard has
been met shall include, but not be limited to, audited financial statements,
corporate financial reports, tax return information, state liquor license
reports, or any other form of information deemed acceptable by the city.
      E-1   (Restaurant with no bar/beer and wine only)
         Permits the retail sale of beer and wine only for consumption or use
on the licensed premises, incidental to the sale of food, on premises
maintaining no barroom, tavern, lounge or other area reserved exclusively for
the retail sale of beer and wine on said premises. For the purposes of this
class E-1, a restaurant must derive more than forty percent (40%) of its gross
revenue (on an annual basis) from the sale of food. The determination of
whether the forty percent (40%) gross revenue standard has been met shall be
made at the time of license renewal for the year just ended. In the event a
licensee has not possessed a class E-1 license for a full year, the
determination of whether the forty percent (40%) standard has been met shall be
deferred until the next license renewal period. The records used to determine
whether said forty percent (40%) standard has been met shall include, but not
be limited to, audited financial statements, corporate financial reports, tax
return information, state liquor license reports, or any other form of
information deemed acceptable by the city.
      E-2 (Restaurant/caterer with no bar/beer and wine only)
         Permits the licensee to serve beer and wine as an incidental part of
food service that serves prepared meals, either on or off the licensed
premises. For the purposes of this class E-2, a restaurant must derive more
than forty percent (40%) of its gross revenue (on an annual basis) from the
sale of food. The determination of whether the forty percent (40%) gross
revenue standard has been met shall be made at the time of license renewal for
the year just ended. In the event a licensee has not possessed a class E-
2 license for a full year, the determination of whether the forty percent (40%)
standard has been met shall be deferred until the next license renewal period.
The records used to determine whether said forty percent (40%) standard has
been met shall include, but not be limited to, audited financial statements,
corporate financial reports, tax return information, state liquor license
reports, or any other form of information deemed acceptable by the city.
      E-3 (No restaurant, with small portable bar carts, service counters and a
small bar)
         Permits the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption or use on the
licensed premises with service counters and a small bar with a lounge, or other
areas reserved exclusively for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, and also
permits the sale of alcoholic liquor from small portable bar carts throughout
the premises.
      E-4 (Specialty restaurant with small bar)
         Permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, beer and wine, with or
without the service of food, for consumption or use on the licensed premises of
a specialty restaurant maintaining a small bar with eight (8) or fewer seats,
and the retail sale of beer and wine by package. For the purposes of this class
E-4, a restaurant must derive more than forty percent (40%) of its gross
revenue (on an annual basis) from the sale of food. The determination of
whether the forty percent (40%) gross revenue standard has been met shall be
made at the time of license renewal for the year just ended. In the event a
licensee has not possessed a class E-4 license for a full year, the
determination of whether the forty percent (40%) standard has been met shall be
deferred until the next license renewal period. The records used to determine
whether said forty percent (40%) standard has been met shall include, but not
be limited to, audited financial statements, corporate financial reports, tax
return information, state liquor license reports, or any other form of
information deemed acceptable by the city.
      E-5 (Hotel small bar and in-room minibar)
         Permits the retail sale and service of alcoholic liquor for
consumption or use on the licensed premises maintaining a small bar with eight
(8) or fewer seats and/or portable bar cart, and the retail sale of individual
units of alcoholic liquor for consumption or use on the licensed premises from
in-room minibars.
      E-6 (Movie theater)
         Permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
licensed premises where the primary business is that of a movie theater (a
business that regularly shows motion pictures/films), subject to the following
conditions:
         1.   Sales of alcoholic liquor shall be limited to times at which the
business is open either to show regularly scheduled motion pictures or films,
or for special motion picture or film showings scheduled at the business. Under
no circumstances may alcoholic liquor be served more than one-half (1/2) hour
prior to (i) the advertised time of the first motion picture or film showing on
any day, or (ii) a scheduled special showing, and service of alcoholic liquor
must cease one-half (1/2) hour prior to the completion of the last showing.
However, if this conflicts with the City’s Liquor Control Code (section
3.3.10), then the open and/or closing hours identified in section 3.3.10 shall
supersede.
         2.   Food service must be available at all times that alcoholic liquor
is available for purchase on the premises.
         3.   No seats or stools for patrons to sit upon shall be included at
any service point from which sales of alcoholic liquor on the premises are made
except for movie theater seats.
         4.   The licensee shall sell only beer, wine, and mixed cocktails in
single-serving sized containers, although such single-servings of such
alcoholic liquor may be poured into a unique plastic cup option, different in
color, size and design than those in which non-alcoholic drinks are served.
         5.   The licensee shall not serve or deliver more than two (2) of the
single-serving sized servings of alcoholic liquor to a person at a time and no
person shall have in his/her possession at any given time more than two (2)
such servings.
      F   Repealed.
      G   Repealed.
      H   (Wholesaler)
         Wholesale delivery license permits the retail sale of beer and wine
only, but not for consumption or use on the licensed premises and where
delivery to the customer is in the original package container by mail or by
common carrier, upon the following conditions:
         1.   There shall be no bar, lounge, taproom or other sales floor on
the licensed premises;
         2.   There shall be no outdoor advertising of the licensed premises;
and
         3.   There shall be no mandatory closing time.
      I   (Brewery/brewpub)
         Permits the retail sale of beer manufactured on the premises of a
brewery/brewpub specified in the license for consumption or use on or off the
licensed premises including a bar, but not incidental to the service of food
and permits the retail sale of wine by package and for consumption or use on
the premises of a brewery/brewpub; the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption or use on licensed premises; the retail sale and storage of the
manufactured beer by package on or off the licensed premises; and the sale of
beer manufactured on the licensed premises to distributors, licensed retailers
and non-licensees for sale, use and/or consumption. Further the license permits
a single guest tap for the retail sale of craft beer or alcoholic cider not
manufactured on the licensed premises for consumption on premises.
      J   (Caterer)
         Permits the holder to serve alcoholic liquors as an incidental part of
a food service that serves prepared meals which excludes the serving of snacks
as the primary meal either on or off site whether licensed or unlicensed by a
caterer retailer.
      K   (Special Event/for retail license holders/3 types)
         The Commissioner shall have sole discretion to issue a retailer
special event license that permits a licensed Illinois retailer to transfer a
portion of its inventory from the retail licensed premises to a designated site
for a special event. (Special event license, retailer)
         An applicant for a K special event license must submit with the
application satisfactory proof of the dramshop liability insurance required of
all liquor license applicants and shall meet such other requirements or
conditions as may be imposed by the Commissioner in the interests of the
public’s health, safety and welfare.
         Any request for a K special event license for an event in the City’s
public ways must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that,
except for the liquor license, they have obtained all other necessary City
approvals for such an event.
         The Commissioner will provide routine reporting to the City Council.
         There shall be three (3) types of K liquor licenses as follows:
         K-1a:   Events sponsored by or for the benefit of a not-for-profit
organization where transferred alcoholic liquor shall be offered for
consumption or use on the designated site. (Not-for-profit daily special event
license for on-site consumption or use.)
         K-1b.15:   Events sponsored by or for the benefit of a not-for-profit
organization where transferred alcoholic liquor shall be offered for
consumption or use on the designated site. (Not-for-profit annual special event
license for on-site consumption or use, with a maximum permitted amount of
fifteen (15) such daily special events annually.)
         K-1b.30:   Events sponsored by or for the benefit of a not-for-profit
organization where transferred alcoholic liquor shall be offered for
consumption or use on the designated site. (Not-for-profit annual special event
license for on-site consumption or use, with a maximum permitted amount of
thirty (30) such daily special events annually.)
         K-2   Events held to promote a commercial undertaking and/or any for-
profit event where transferred alcoholic liquor shall be offered for
consumption or use on the designated site. (For-profit special event for on-
site consumption or use)
         K-3   Events held by an Illinois licensed retailer where transferred
package beer and wine inventory will be offered for sale by package, but not
for consumption, apart from reasonable sampling, on the designated site.
(Retailer special event beer and wine package sale only/no consumption)
      KK    (Chamber of Commerce)
         Permits the Commissioner may issue a Chamber of Commerce business
mixer permit to the chamber which allows the chamber or a host business to
purchase alcoholic liquors to sell for use or consumption on premises at
business mixers sponsored by the chamber, but not for external resale in any
form. This permit also allows the Chamber of Commerce to engage a licensed
Illinois retailer to transfer a portion of its alcoholic inventory from its
retail licensed premises and to offer for sale such transferred alcoholic
liquor for use or consumption on premises at business mixers, but not for
external resale in any form. A total of up to thirty-six (36) business mixers
may be held in any one calendar year under a Chamber of Commerce business mixer
permit, and only at or by businesses approved by the Woodstock Chamber of
Commerce.
         The Commissioner may also issue up to twelve (12) pre-approved
community event permits per calendar year which allow the Chamber of Commerce
to purchase alcoholic liquors to offer for sale by package or for use or
consumption on premises or in the public way, as determined in the approval
process. This permit also allows the Chamber of Commerce to engage a licensed
Illinois retailer to transfer a portion of its alcoholic inventory from its
retail licensed premises and to offer for sale such transferred alcoholic
liquor for use or consumption on premises or in the public way, as determined
in the approval process.
         Upon issuance of the Chamber of Commerce business mixer permit and
pre- approved community event permits, the Chamber of Commerce assumes
responsibility for providing proper security at each mixer or event to ensure
only those aged twenty-one (21) years and older are served and that no one is
overserved. The Chamber of Commerce shall annually submit to the City
satisfactory proof of the dramshop liability insurance required of all liquor
license applicants.
      L   (Armory)
         Repealed.
      M   Repealed.
      N   (Special event license, non-retailer/not-for-profit)
         The Commissioner shall have sole discretion to issue a non-retailer/
not-for-profit special event license that permits any lodge, veterans’
organization, civic organization or other similar not-for-profit organization,
to sell beer and wine at any picnic, club, or similar function sponsored by
such organization or club.
         An applicant for an N special event license must submit with the
application satisfactory proof of dramshop liability insurance to the maximum
statutory limits and shall meet such other requirements or conditions as may be
imposed by the Commissioner in the interests of the public’s health, safety and
welfare.
         Any request for an N special event license for an event in the City’s
public ways must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that,
except for the liquor license, they have obtained all other necessary City
approvals for such an event.
         The Commissioner will provide routine reporting to the City Council.
      V   (Video gaming supplement)
         A supplemental license that permits an existing Class A, C, D and E
liquor license holder to conduct video gaming on the licensed premises in a
manner consistent with State law and section
3.3.5 of this chapter.
      BYOB   (Restaurant license allowing BYOB)
         1.   A BYOB license shall permit alcoholic liquor to be consumed only
in conjunction with the purchase and consumption of a meal (and not merely
appetizers or dessert).
         2.   A BYOB license shall limit consumption of alcoholic liquor to no
more than one (1) seven hundred-fifty-milliliter bottle of wine, or thirty-six
(36) ounces of beer, or two (2) one-and-one-half-ounce servings of spirits per
patron.
         3.   A BYOB license shall limit consumption of alcoholic liquor to the
licensed premises. An opened bottle of alcohol . may not be removed from the
premises but must be disposed of before the customer leaves the premises.
         4.   BYOB licensees may provide glassware and ice to patrons, and may
uncork, pour, serve, or otherwise control the consumption of the alcoholic
liquor, so long as anyone performing the service of alcoholic liquor is over
age 21 and has a valid BASSET certificate as required for all license holders
under this Chapter.
         5.   BYOB licensees may charge a fee for uncorking, pouring, serving,
or otherwise controlling consumption of the alcoholic liquor to patrons who
bring alcoholic liquor on the BYOB licensee’s premises for consumption on said
premises.
         6.   Possession and/or consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person
under age twenty-one (21) is prohibited.
         7.   For the purpose of this section, a “full-service restaurant” is
defined as a food service establishment, with interior seating at tables or
booths for a minimum of twenty-five (25) customers, where food is ordered from
a full menu and orders are taken directly from a customer’s table by restaurant
wait staff and served directly to a customer’s table.
         8.   The applicant must satisfy all the applicable liquor license
application requirements of this Chapter including but not limited to the
insurance requirements (or comparable, sufficient, general liability or other
appropriate insurance coverage), all prohibitions related to alcohol sales to
those under 21, requirements regarding hours of operation, and other
requirements of this Chapter.
         9.   The BYOB permit is not considered by the City to make the holder
a -”licensed establishment” under the Illinois Video Gaming Act.
   C.   License Amounts and Fees.
      1.   Number And Fees: The following number of licenses are authorized-
for each liquor license classification. The fees for such licenses shall be in
the amount established by the City Manager as authorized by this Chapter:
Class Number Available Fees
Class                Number Available Fees
A-1                  6                $2,000.00
A-2                  12               $1,500.00
A-4                  1                $1,500.00
A-5                  3                $1,000.00
A-6                  11               $1,600.00
A-7                  0                $1,800.00
B-1                  1                $2,000.00
B-1b                 1                $2,200.00
B-2                  4                $1,200.00
B-3                  4                $1,500.00
B-3a                 0                $1,600.00
B-4a                 0                $1,100.00
B-4b                 0                $1,200.00
B-4c                 1                $1,300.00
B-5                  0                $1,500.00
B-6                  1                $1,200.00
B-7                  0                $1,200.00
B-8                  0                $600.00
B-9                  0                $600.00
C-1                  0                $1,200.00
C-1-V                0
C-2                  1                $800.00
D                    7                $1,200.00
E-1                  1                $600.00
E-2                  0                $700.00
E-3                  1                $500.00
E-4                  1                $1,200.00
E-5                  1                $1,000.00
E-6                  1                $1,500.00
I                    2                $2,000.00
I-V                  1
J                    1                $800.00
BYOB, non-restaurant 0                $200.00
K-1a                 0                $50.00 per day
K-1b.15              1                $150.00
K-1b.30              0                $300.00
K-2                  0                $50.00 per day
KK                   1                $400.00
L                    0                $800.00
N                    0                $50.00 per day
 
   2.   Reduction in the Number of Liquor Licenses, If a license of any class
is revoked, expires without renewal, is surrendered by the licensee, or is
otherwise terminated pursuant to this Chapter, the total number of licenses
available in that class automatically shall be reduced by that license without
further action required by the City Council.
   D.   Midyear License Applicants: Any applicant seeking a license under this
chapter between May 1 and August 31 of the same year shall pay the required
license fee in subsection C of this section. Any applicant seeking a license
between September 1 and December 31 of the same year shall pay the equivalent
of two-thirds (2/3) of the applicable license fee in subsection C of this
section. Any applicant seeking a license between January 1 and April 30 of the
same year shall pay the equivalent of one-third (1/3) of the applicant license
fee in subsection C of this section.
   E.   Late Filing Penalty: Liquor license annual renewal application packets
shall be submitted to the Office of the Mayor no later than five (5) business
days prior to the renewal date of each year. Unless waived by the Commissioner
or the Commissioner’s designee, a penalty of twenty-five dollars daily shall be
assessed for each day the completed renewal application packet is late.
(Ord. 15-O-25, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 15-O-39, 5-19-2015; Ord. 15-O-43, 6-2-2015;
Ord. 16-O-57, 10-4-2016; Ord. 17-O-35, 4-18-2017; Ord. 17-O-68, 8-1-2017; Ord.
18-O-29, 4-17-2018; Ord. 18-O-32, 5-1-2018; Ord. 18-O-34, 5-15-2018; Ord. 18-O-
56, 11-6-2018; Ord. 19-O-13, 1-15-2019; Ord. 19-O-47, 5-7-2019; Ord. 19-O-80,
10-15-2019; Ord. 20-O-26, 4-9-2020; Ord. 20-O-32, 5-20-2020; Ord. 20-O-45, 6-
17-2020; Ord. 20-O-52, 7-22-2020; Ord. 20-O-81, 11-3-2020; Ord. 20-O-09, 2-2-
2021; Ord. 21-O-21, 4-6-2021; Ord. 21-O-22, 4-6-2021; Ord. 21-O-39, 7-20-2021;
Ord. 21-O-41, 7-20-2021; Ord. 21-O-63, 12-O-2021; Ord. 19-O-98, 12-4-2019; Ord.
19-O-102, 12-19-2019; Ord. 22-O-11, 2-16-2022; Ord. 22-O-45, 9-6-2022; Ord. 23-
O-13, 2-21-2023; Ord.23-O-19, 4-4-2023; Ord. 23-O-21, 4-18-2023; Ord. 23-O-27,
5-2-2023; Ord. 23-O-35, 6-20-2023; Ord. 23-O-37, 6-20-2023; Ord. 23-O-38, 7-18-
2023; Ord. 2023-O-39, 7-18-2023; Ord. 2023-O-43, 9-5-2023; Ord. 2023-O-47, 10-
3-2023; Ord. 2023-O-48, 10-3-2023; Ord. 2023-O-50, 10-17-2023; Ord. 23-O-51,
11-7-2023; Ord. 23-O-61, 12-19-2023; Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023; Ord. 24-O-31, 5-
21-2024; Ord. 24-O-38, 7-16-2024; Ord. 24-O-49, 8-20-2024; Ord. 25-O-07, 2-4-
2025; Ord. 25-O-08, 2-4-2025; Ord. 25-O-21, 4-1-2025; Ord. 25-O-31, 5-20-2025;
Ord. 25-O-32, 5-20-2025)
3.3.7: PRIVILEGE GRANTED BY LICENSE:
A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal privilege good
for not to exceed one year after issuance, unless sooner revoked, as in this
chapter provided, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by laws of testate or intestate
devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that
executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the
trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in
part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic
liquor under the order of the appropriate court and may exercise the privileges
of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such
decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such
license but not longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or
insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of that portion of the
license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from
operating under such license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 15-O-25, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.8: TERM OF LICENSES:
   A.   A license is purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one
year from the date of issuance. The one-year period shall be from May 1 of each
year to April 30 of each following year, unless sooner revoked or suspended or
unless installment payments are not received as provided for in subsection C of
this section. Licenses issued after May 1 of any year shall pay the prorated
fee as provided for in subsection 3.3.6E of this chapter.
   B.   All licenses, regardless of the date of issuance, shall terminate on
April 30 of each year following the date of issuance.
   C.   For Licensees for whom the annual license fee is one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or more, at the discretion of the Commissioner may pay for the
license in two (2) installments. The first installment will be due with the
application for renewal; the second installment will be due no later than
October 31. If any installment is not received by the due date, the license in
question will be suspended as of twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight on that date.
Reinstatement of said license is subject to payment of the installment(s), and
payment of a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) as determined by
and at the sole discretion of the Commissioner. (Ord. 15-O-25, 4-21-2015; amd.
Ord. 22-O-22, 4-19-2022; Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.9: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any licensee must complete such renewal application as required by the
Commissioner. Renewal applicants must continue to meet the requirements for an
initial issue of a liquor license, but the City Council reserves the right to
decrease the number of licenses to be issued within its jurisdiction and
renewal is not a vested right of any applicant.
   B.   Any licensee seeking a renewal of an A-2, A-6, D, E-1, E-2 or E-
4 liquor license, but that is not qualified for the license because it did not
meet the standard of deriving more than forty percent (40%) of its gross
revenue from food, may apply for a probationary license, for up to 7 months,
the length of which shall be decided at the discretion of the Commissioner, in
order to try to bring its operation into compliance with the forty percent
(40%) standard.
      1.   Any application for such a probationary license must be accompanied
by a written business plan detailing how the licensee plans to bring its
business into compliance with and thereafter continue to meet the forty percent
(40%) standard. Because such a probationary license is intended to give the
licensee the opportunity to come into compliance and thereafter remain in
compliance with the forty percent (40%) standard, such a probationary license
i) may only be extended by the Commissioner two times if the Commissioner finds
that the probationary licensee has been making reasonable efforts and
reasonable progress toward meeting that goal; or ii) may only be granted two
times (not including extensions) by the Commissioner in a ten year period to
any licensee. In any other circumstance, requests for renewed or extended
probationary licenses can only be granted by the City Council. The Commissioner
shall have the authority to require records necessary to document ongoing
progress toward the forty percent (40%) standard, and may revoke any
probationary license if, in the opinion of the Commissioner, reasonable
progress toward this goal is not being made.
      2.   During the term of the probationary license, any violation by the
licensee of any state laws or local ordinance regulating the sale and/or
service of alcohol may be considered by the Commissioner -as grounds for
revocation of the probationary license.
      3.   The granting of a probationary license shall not be construed as a
vested right, but rather is a remedial opportunity to bring the business into
compliance for a liquor license for which the licensee does not currently
qualify.
      4.   Whether or not to issue or deny a probationary license shall be
within the discretion of the Commissioner who may consider any factors relevant
to the initial issuance of a liquor license to ensure the probationary license
is only granted to applicants who would otherwise be eligible for an A-2 or A-
6 license.
      5.   One month before the expiration of the probationary license period,
the licensee shall submit records required in section B.2 of Article 3.3.6 for
the Commissioner to determine whether the licensee has become eligible for
renewal of its liquor license. The records submitted must cover the licensee’s
sales for the four (4) most recent months, although the licensee may pick any
two (2) months within that probationary period to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner that it has and can reasonably be expected to
continue to meet the forty percent (40%) requirement. If the Commissioner
determines that the licensee has otherwise complied with all other license
requirements and has made good faith and material progress toward satisfaction
of the forty percent (40%) requirement without yet reaching that threshold, the
Commissioner may extend the probationary period up to, but not in excess of,
the annual renewal date for all liquor license holders.
      6.   For purposes of the City’s number of A-2, A-6, D, E-1, E-2, and E-
4 liquor licenses issued, a probationary license shall not be considered a new
or different license. Rather, it is the intent of this section that it shall
continue to be the same license previously held by the applicant, but it shall
be a license that has been renewed only subject to these additional
probationary terms. Such license may be revoked at the end of any probationary
period (or extended period) if the license standards have not been met. (Ord.
15-O-25, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 22-O-10, 2-16-2022; Ord. 23-O-22, 4-18-2023; Ord.
23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.10: CLOSING HOURS:
   A.   No person shall sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor in the city
between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. on any
day, with the exception of Friday night, Saturday night, and nights prior to
holidays. “Holidays” are New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor
Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day in the city of Woodstock, McHenry
County, Illinois, and the closing hours on those nights shall be two o’clock
(2:00) A.M.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business, or to admit persons to
any premises licensed under these rules for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquors during the hours within which the sale of alcoholic liquors is
prohibited or to permit or allow persons to remain in or about the licensed
premises either before or after the hours designated within which the sale and
consumption of alcoholic liquor is prohibited on the licensed premises;
provided, however, that restaurants, clubs, drugstores, retail grocery stores
and hotels may keep their place of business open, subject only to the
provisions that no sale at retail of alcoholic liquors or the consumption by
persons of alcoholic liquors shall be permitted or allowed on said licensed
premises during the hours prohibited.
   C.   The hours mentioned herein shall be Central Standard Time except when
daylight saving time is in effect, and then said hours shall be Central
Daylight-Saving Time. (Ord. 15-O-25, 4-21-2015; Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.11: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school (other than an
institution of higher learning), hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or
for veterans, their spouses or children or any military or naval station;
provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant
service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other
places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried
on, or if the church or school has been established since the issuance of the
original license. Notwithstanding any provision of this Section to the
contrary, the Commissioner may grant an exemption to the prohibitions in this
Section.
   B.   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of schoolbooks, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such
minors.
   C.   Licenses issued hereunder apply only to the premises described in the
application and in the license issued thereon, and only one location shall be
so described in each license. After a license has been granted for particular
premises, the Commissioner, upon proper showing, may endorse upon said license
permission to:
      1.   Abandon the premises therein described and remove therefrom to other
premises approved by the Commissioner; or
      2.   Expand the existing licensed premises into additional, adjoining
space, but in order to obtain such approval, the licensee shall file with the
Commissioner a request in writing and a statement under oath which shall show
that the premises to which removal or expansion is to be made comply in all
respects with the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 15-O-25, 4-21-2015; amd.
Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023; Ord. 24-O-28, 5-7-2024)
3.3.12: VIEWS INTO BUILDING REQUIRED:
   A.   Unless otherwise approved by the Commissioner:
      1.   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
upon the premises is licensed, other than as a restaurant, hotel or club, no
screen, blind, curtain, partition, opaque glass, article or thing (including
any advertising or signage of any type and any video gaming devices) shall be
permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises, nor
inside such premises, which prevents a clear view into the interior of such
licensed premises from the street or sidewalk at all times.
      2.   To the extent that the rules and regulations governing the Video
Gaming Act, provide that video gaming areas must have restricted visibility
from outside the business then these licensed premises should comply with this
subsection to the maximum extent possible in a manner consistent with the video
gaming regulations and the public health, safety and welfare.
   B.   All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall
be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or artificial
light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly
visible.
   C.   In case the view into any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be obscured or obstructed or if the Commissioner
believes improved sight-lines into the premises are in the interests of
improved public health, safety and welfare, the Commissioner can order that
obstructions be removed or modified to address those concerns. Failure to
comply with such an order shall subject the license to revocation as provided
in section 3.3.17 of this chapter.
   D.   In order to enforce the provisions of this section, the commissioner
shall have the right to require the filing with him of plans, drawings and
photographs showing the clearance of the view as above required. (Ord. 15-O-25,
4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.13: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the storage
of such liquor for such sale shall be kept and operated in a clean and sanitary
condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with the laws of Illinois and
the ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or
sale of food for human consumption and the service in such an establishment.
(Ord. 15-O-25, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.13.5: PUBLIC SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In addition to any other requirements contained in this Chapter, no
licensee (including their employees and agents) shall permit or allow any
illegal activity on the licensed premises. It is the duty and responsibility of
each licensee (including their employees and agents) to maintain the licensed
premises in a peaceable and orderly manner so as not to allow any patron,
employee, or member of the public on the licensed premises to commit any
criminal act or any act which is done in an unreasonable manner so as to alarm
or disturb another and to provoke a breach of the peace.
   B.   It is the affirmative duty of a licensee (including their employees and
agents) to report promptly to the police department all illegal activity
reported to or observed by the licensee on or within sight of the licensed
premises; to answer fully and truthfully all questions of an identified police
officer who inquires or investigates concerning persons or events in or around
the licensed business; to cooperate with the police in any such inquiry or
investigation, including the giving of oral or written statements to the police
at reasonable times and locations in the course of investigations and sharing
any relevant video or other recording made on the premises; to sign a complaint
against any person whom the licensee observes in any illegal conduct or
activity on or within sight of the licensed premises; and to cooperate with the
police in taking recommended steps to reduce the likelihood of any future
unlawful activities.
   C.   Video Recording Requirements: Prior to the commencement of operations,
all A-1 license categories (with the exception of H, J, K, KK, and N), shall be
required to install and use surveillance camera technology that complies, at a
minimum, with the following requirements:
      1.   The Commissioner shall require license holders to file with their
initial application plans, drawings and photographs showing compliance with the
requirements of this section and may require all license holders to file such
material at other times on the Commissioner’s initiative or upon the request of
the Chief of Police.
      2.   The Commissioner, at the recommendation of the Chief of Police, or
their designee, when appropriate in the interests of the public health, safety
and/or welfare, can determine if a license holder in any category previously
identified as being exempt from this specific Section should be subject to the
provisions of this Section as a condition of their license.
      3.   The surveillance system required by this Section shall be subject to
inspection by the Chief of Police (or their designee) who may require recording
of any location on the premises where the Chief of Police (or their designee)
concludes that public safety considerations require the placement of video
surveillance cameras. The Chief of Police (or his or her designee) must approve
the video surveillance system before any liquor license may be approved or
renewed.
      4.   The cameras shall be sufficiently light sensitive and provide
sufficient image resolution (supported by additional lighting, if necessary) to
produce easily discernible images.
      5.   The images recorded by each camera shall be capable of being viewed
and reproduced for or readily accessible for third-party review and copying
using commonly available digital technology. The licensee shall have a person
on staff or otherwise available, without undue delay, capable of operating the
required cameras to produce any requested recorded image(s) and to reproduce
them for third-party review and copying. If the video surveillance system is
web-enabled or has wireless capability, upon request, the Police Department
shall be provided the ability to access the live system upon initiation by the
establishment during incidents requiring a police response or intervention.
      6.   The cameras shall not have any audio capability.
      7.   The cameras shall be maintained in good working condition.
      8.   The cameras shall be operational at all times that the licensee is
open for business to the public. The license holder must report promptly to the
City Clerk, or their designee, any time when any camera or video recording/
surveillance equipment is not properly operating, and the license holder must
ensure that repairs are completed in a reasonable timeframe. Multiple or
extended camera failures or the failure to report inoperable equipment can be
subject to fines as well as suspension(s) and/or license termination at the
discretion of the Commissioner.
      9.   All recordings made by the required cameras shall be indexed by date
and time; shall be preserved by the licensee for at least thirty (30) days in a
manner accessible only to authorized personnel.
      10.   All recordings made by the required cameras, upon request, shall be
made available by the licensee for inspection by (i) the police department
without undue delay and within 24 hours of any request (or sooner in the event
of exigent circumstances where the police identify an immediate safety
concern), (ii) the Commissioner, or (iii) by other authorized government
personnel.
      11.   The licensee shall post signage, in a conspicuous manner and at
appropriate locations, notifying the public that (i) video surveillance cameras
are in operation; and (ii) such surveillance camera footage may be provided to
the police.
      12.   The license holder must obtain written permission from the Chief of
Police in order to change any previously approved video surveillance system.
      13.   The Chief of Police, or their designee, is authorized to require
reasonable modifications to any video surveillance system if, in the opinion of
the Chief of Police, such modification is appropriate in the interests of the
public health, safety and/or welfare.
      14.   The Chief of Police, or their designee, is authorized to conduct
random compliance checks to ensure the requirements of this section are being
met.
      15.   Any decision of the Chief of Police, or their designee, can be
appealed to the City Manager in writing within 10 business days.
      16.   The implementation of this Section will be effective with the May
1st, 2025 liquor license renewal, unless it is otherwise determined by the
Chief of Police that, in the interests of the public health, safety and/or
welfare, an individual licensee (including those otherwise exempt) should be
required to comply earlier, after reasonable notice to the licensee, on a date
to be determined by the Chief of Police.
   D.   Failure of the licensee (including their employees and agents) to
comply with the requirements of this section (and to staff their business and
train their employees and agents in a manner reasonably sufficient to
facilitate such compliance) shall be grounds for a fine, a suspension or the
revocation of the licensee’s license for the premises. (Ord. 23-O-22, 4-18-
2023; amd. Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.14: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Peddling: No person shall peddle alcoholic liquor in the city.
   B.   Sales: No licensee under this chapter shall sell alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of twenty one (21), or to any intoxicated person, or
to any person known by him or her to be under legal disability or in need of
mental treatment, or harbor or permit any intoxicated persons to loiter on the
premises described in the license or permit any conduct which shall tend to
disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood, or the premises.
   C.   Public Consumption:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any-”alcoholic
liquor”, as defined by this chapter upon or about-any street, sidewalk or
public thoroughfare, except to the extent the Commissioner waives the
enforcement of this section pursuant to a request by a licensee -or unless
specifically authorized by the Commissioner for City permitted special events
and other City authorized events. The Commissioner may limit any such
authorization to beer and/or wine only..
      2.   As a condition of being granted this waiver, the licensee shall
comply with all requirements imposed by the city regarding screening, sound
amplification and location. The licensee shall also comply with all insurance
requirements pursuant to subsection
3.3.3D of this chapter and shall make the city an additional insured party
under the licensee’s liquor liability insurance.
   D.   Adult Business and Bodily Contact Prohibitions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person maintaining, owning or operating
a commercial establishment located within the city, at which alcoholic
beverages are offered for sale for consumption on the premises, to permit or
allow the following activity to be conducted on the premises of such a
commercial establishment, all of which activity is defined in section
3.13.1 of this title: “adult business”; “adult entertainment center”; adults
only activity, bookstore, motion picture theater, nightclub, sauna; “nudity”;
obscene activity; “rap parlor”; “sadomasochistic activity”; or sexual conduct
activity.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any establishment defined as an adult
business pursuant to the Woodstock zoning ordinance to sell, distribute or
permit beer or alcoholic beverages on the premises.
      3.   Employees shall not have bodily contact with patrons and patrons
shall not be permitted to purchase beverages for employees. For purposes of
this subsection D, the term “employees” shall include independent contractors
performing services on the licensed premises and employees of any independent
contractors performing services on the licensed premises.
   E.   Prohibition Of Disturbance Of The Peace: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee, individually or through his or her agents or employees, to allow
intoxicated persons to loiter on or about that part of the premises described
in the license which part is in use by or in view of the general public, or
permit any conduct which shall tend to disturb the people or quiet of the
neighborhood or the premises.
   F.   Prohibition Of Gambling: It shall be unlawful for any licensee
hereunder to permit or allow any gambling or betting of any money in or about
the licensed premises except in a manner consistent with all federal law, with
the Illinois video gaming act 1  and any rules or regulations enacted
thereunder, and with the provisions of this Chapter, or unless otherwise
permitted pursuant to state law or City Ordinance, such as for raffles
permitted under Title 3, Chapter 5 of the City Code, as may be amended.
   G.   Permit Required for Outdoor Sound Amplification: It shall be unlawful
for any licensee to permit or allow any noise or sound to be amplified outside
the bounds of a structure on the premises without a permit for such use issued
by the City’s Commissioner. Such a permit may contain such conditions as the
City’s Commissioner determines are appropriate for mitigating the impact of
such noise or sound on the City’s residents and businesses. The City’s
Commissioner may determine the length of any such permit and may modify the
conditions of any permit if the City’s Commissioner reasonably determines that
the impact of such sound has not been sufficiently mitigated by the conditions
imposed in the permit.
   H.   Food Trucks: No license holder shall sponsor, advertise, work in
conjunction with, or otherwise promote the presence of Mobile Food Truck
Vendors on or adjacent to their premises or in association with their
operations, without ensuring that such Mobile Food Truck Vendor has obtained
any require licenses and/or permits required by the City Code. (Ord. 15-O-25,
4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 21-O-21, 4-6-2021; Ord. 21-O-63, 12-7-2021; Ord. 23-O-62,
12-19-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ilcs 40 et seq.
3.3.15: MINORS:
   A.   Selling Or Furnishing Liquor: No person, either directly or indirectly
by himself, bartender, clerk, agent or service or employee, shall at any time
sell, furnish, give or deliver any alcoholic liquor to any person under the age
of twenty-one (21) years. No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years
shall be permitted in any place where beer and wine or other alcoholic liquors
are sold for consumption on the premises, except places in which the principal
business is the sale of services or commodities other than alcoholic liquors.
   B.   Premises Restrictions:
      1.   No holder of an A-1 liquor license or their bartender, agent or
employee shall suffer or permit any person under the age of twenty-one (21), at
any time, to be in that portion of a licensed premises that sells, gives, or
delivers alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises unless such person is
accompanied by his/her parent or guardian; provided, that this shall not apply
to any licensed premises or portion thereof which derives its principal
business from the sale of services or commodities other than alcoholic liquor.
      2.   No holder of a retail liquor dealer’s license or his bartender,
agent or employee shall suffer or permit any person under the age of twenty-one
(21) to be in that portion of a licensed premises that sells, gives, or
delivers alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises, after the hour of
eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. on any night, provided, that this shall not apply
to any licensed premises or portion thereof which derives its principal
business from the sale of services or commodities other than alcoholic liquor.
      3.   No holder of a retail liquor dealer’s license shall suffer or permit
any person under the age of twenty one (21) to dispense, draw, pour, or mix any
alcoholic liquor, or in any way tend bar as an employee of any licensed
premises for consumption on or off said premises. This shall not prevent people
eighteen (18) years of age and over, as employees of licensed premises, from
delivering alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises.
   C.   All license holders must post all government warning signs and any
other items required by law to be posted by license holders, including but not
limited to those alerting patrons to the dangers of drinking while pregnant.
   D.   Religious Ceremonies: No person, after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor
to another person under the age of twenty-one (21) years, except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service.
   E.   Written Evidence Of Age: Any licensee, or his agent or employee, may
refuse to sell or serve alcoholic beverages to any person who is unable to
produce adequate written evidence of identity and of the fact that he or she is
over the age of twenty-one (21) years. Adequate written evidence of age and
identity of the person is a document issued by a federal, state, county or
municipal government, or subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not
limited to, a motor vehicle operator’s license, a registration certificate
issued under the Federal Selective Service Act, or an identification card
issued to a member of the Armed Forces. Proof that the defendant licensee, or
his employee or agent, demanded, was shown and reasonably relied upon such
written evidence in any transaction forbidden by this section is an affirmative
defense in any criminal prosecution therefor or to any proceedings for the
suspension or revocation of any license based thereon.
   F.   False Identification: Any person who sells, gives or furnishes to any
person under the age of twenty-one (21) years any false or fraudulent written,
printed, or photostatic evidence of the age and identity of such person or who
sells, gives or furnishes to any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years
evidence of age and identification of any other person is guilty of a class A
misdemeanor.
   G.   Purchase Or Acceptance By Persons Of Nonage:
      1.   Any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall not purchase
or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his
possession.
      2.   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under the age of
twenty-one (21) years is forbidden.
      3.   Any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years who presents or
offers to any licensee, his agent or employee, any written, printed or
photostatic evidence of age and identity which is false, fraudulent, or not
actually his or her own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to
purchase or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure, the serving of any
alcoholic beverage, who falsely states in writing that he or she is at least 21
years of age when receiving alcoholic liquor from a representative, agent, or
employee of an express company, common carrier, or contract carrier, or who has
in his or her possession any false or fraudulent written, printed, or
photostatic evidence of age and identity, is guilty of a class A misdemeanor
and the person’s sentence shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
following: a fine of not less than $500 and at least 25 hours of community
service. If possible, any community service shall be performed for an alcohol
abuse prevention .program.
      4.   Any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years who has any
alcoholic beverage in his or her possession on any street or highway or in any
public place or in any place open to the public is guilty of a class A
misdemeanor. This subsection G4 does not apply to possession by a person under
the age of twenty-one (21) years making a delivery of any alcoholic beverage in
pursuance of the order of his or her parent or in pursuance of his or her
employment.
      5.   The possession and dispensing or consumption by a person under the
age of twenty-one (21) years of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a
religious service or ceremony, or the consumption by any person under the age
of twenty-one (21) years under the direct supervision and approval of the
parents or parent or person standing in loco parentis of any person under the
age of twenty-one (21) years in the privacy of a home is not prohibited by this
subsection. (Ord. 15-O-25, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.16: KEG TAGGING:
   A.   Definitions: In addition to those terms defined in title 1, chapter 3
of this code and section
3.3.1 of this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings
unless the context otherwise requires:
      KEG: A reusable container designed and capable of holding four (4) or
more gallons of beer or malt beverage.
      PERSON: Any natural person, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, trust or association.
      RETAILER: A person who sells, offers for sale, or does or offers to
exchange for any form of consideration, any keg.
   B.   Retailer Duties: All retailers and their employees and agents shall be
required to:
      1.   Affix or cause to be affixed to any keg sold a keg identification
tag (“KIT”). A KIT shall consist of a uniquely numbered and coded tag furnished
by the city. A KIT shall be used for a single sale and affixed by the retailer
prior to sale and removed only by the retailer upon return of the keg.
      2.   Require the purchaser of a keg to exhibit proper proof of
identification and retain a copy of the purchaser’s identification. If the
purchaser fails to provide proof of identification, the retailer shall refuse
to sell the keg.
      3.   Require the purchaser to complete and sign a keg registration form,
furnished and prescribed by the city, disclosing the purchaser’s name, address,
telephone number and driver’s license or other state identification number. The
form shall contain and acknowledge that the purchaser understands that no
person under the age of twenty-one (21) years will be allowed to possess or
consume beer or malt beverage from the keg. The form shall also inform the
purchaser that any deposit paid by the purchaser for the keg shall be forfeited
if the keg is returned without the KIT.
      4.   Furnish a copy of the keg registration paperwork to the purchaser.
      5.   Retain copies of all keg registration forms, along with a copy of
the purchaser’s identification for at least one year from the date of purchase.
      6.   Report and forward a copy of the keg registration paperwork to the
city manager if a keg is returned without the KIT, or with a damaged or a
defaced KIT, or if the keg is not returned within ten (10) days of the due
date.
   C.   Purchaser Requirements: Any person who purchases a keg shall:
      1.   Furnish proper identification to the retailer and complete and sign
the keg registration form described in subsection B3 of this section;
      2.   Not allow any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to
possess or consume beer or malt beverage from the keg, except as otherwise
allowed by state law or local ordinance;
      3.   Not remove, damage or deface the KIT;
      4.   Retain a copy of the keg registration form in a location that is
readily accessible from the location of the keg at all times.
   D.   Violations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for purchasers to:
         a.   Remove, damage or deface all or part of a KIT;
         b.   Fail to return a keg within ten (10) days of the due date;
         c.   Fail to maintain the keg registration form in a readily
accessible location from the keg;
         d.   Allow any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to
consume beer or malt beverage from the keg, except in accordance with state law
or as otherwise allowed by local ordinance.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for retailers to:
         a.   Sell or offer for sale a keg without a KIT;
         b.   Fail to maintain purchaser identification and keg registration
paperwork for one year following the date of purchase of the keg;
         c.   Fail to report and forward paperwork to the city manager if a keg
is returned without the KIT or with a damaged or a defaced KIT or if the keg is
not returned within ten (10) days of the due date;
         d.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a manufacturer
or wholesale distributor of kegs.
   E.   Revocation, Suspension Or Fine: In addition to any penalty imposed
under this Chapter, a liquor license may be revoked or suspended or a fine
imposed by the Commissioner for a violation by a retailer of any part or
portion of this section pursuant to the provisions of section 3.3.17 of this
chapter. (Ord. 15-O-25, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.17: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR FINE:
   A.   Revocation: Licenses granted hereunder may be revoked by the
Commissioner for the violation of any part or portion of this chapter
(including violations related to the video gaming act), or of the liquor
control act, or of any valid resolution or ordinance enacted by the city, or of
any applicable rule or regulation established by the Commissioner or by the
state liquor control commission or any violation of the criminal code which
occurs on the licensed premises or any violation of the criminal code which
occurs off the licensed premises where said violation involves or relates to
the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises.
Licenses granted hereunder may be revoked upon the conviction of licensee under
the criminal code. Should any applicant for license make a false or fraudulent
statement in such application, the same shall be cause for revocation by the
commissioner of such license.
   B.   Suspension: Licenses granted hereunder may be suspended by the
Commissioner for a period of not exceeding thirty (30) days for the violation
of any part or portion of this chapter (including violations related to the
video gaming act), or of the liquor control act, or of any valid resolution or
ordinance enacted by the city, or of any applicable rule or regulation
established by the Commissioner or by the state liquor control commission or
any violation of the criminal code which occurs on the licensed premises or any
violation of the criminal code which occurs off the licensed premises where
said violation involves or relates to the sale or consumption of alcoholic
beverages on the licensed premises. During such period of suspension, no
alcoholic liquor shall be sold on said licensed premises.
   C.   Fine: In addition to revocation or suspension of the liquor license by
the Commissioner, any person, firm, or corporation who: (i) violates any
provision of this chapter (including violations related to the Illinois Video
Gaming Act), or (ii) violates any provision of the Illinois Liquor Control Act,
or (iii) violates any valid resolution or ordinance enacted by the City, or
(iv) violates any applicable rule or regulation established by the Commissioner
or by the state liquor control commission, or (v) unreasonably allows any
violation of the criminal code on the licensed premises or (vi) is responsible
for any violation of the criminal code which occurs off the licensed premises
because the violation involves or relates to the sale or consumption of
alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises, shall be subject to a fine of no
more than $5,000 for each violation. Each day that a violation continues shall
be considered a separate offense.
   D.   Any party subject to revocation, suspension, or fine under this Section
also shall be responsible for the City’s cost of prosecution, including
reasonable attorney fees, for each offense, including proceedings related to
the revocation of their liquor license.
   E.   Proof Establishing Violation: Proof before the commissioner of the
facts establishing a violation of any federal law, state statute or regulation,
city ordinance or resolution or rule of the Illinois liquor control commission
or the Illinois gaming board shall be sufficient cause for a revocation,
suspension or fine of any license, whether or not a conviction has been
obtained in any court. (Ord. 15-O-25, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.18: HEARINGS BEFORE THE COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Notice Of Hearing: Whenever this chapter requires a hearing before the
commissioner or the commissioner acts affirmatively concerning a license or
licensee, the licensee shall be afforded no less than three (3) days’ notice of
such hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or personal delivery to the address of the licensee contained on the
liquor license application and shall state:
      1.   The time, place, and nature of the hearing.
      2.   A statement of the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the
hearing is to be held.
      3.   A reference to the particular sections of the ordinances or statute
(s) involved.
      4.   A statement informing the licensee of his or her ability to respond
by presenting evidence and argument.
   B.   If the commissioner has reason to believe that any continued operation
of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the
city, he may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for such
conclusion and without notice or hearing order the licensed premises closed for
not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee the opportunity to be heard
during that period, except that if such licensee shall also be engaged in the
conduct of other business or businesses on the licensed premises such order
shall not be applicable to such other business or businesses.
   C.   Conduct Of Hearings:
      1.   A hearing required under this chapter shall be held in accordance
with the following rules:
         a.   The hearing shall be held at a reasonable time, date and place.
         b.   The hearing shall be open to the public.
         c.   A licensee may present evidence and argument.
         d.   The commissioner may limit, but not prohibit, the presentation of
evidence and argument. Evidence not admissible under the rules of evidence and
privilege as applied in civil cases in the circuit courts of this state may be
admitted if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent men in
the conduct of their affairs.
         e.   The commissioner shall maintain an official record of the
proceedings for purposes of subsection G of this section.
      2.   Where a licensee has received the requisite notice under this
chapter and fails to appear at a hearing, the commissioner may act ex parte.
The commissioner may also have an informal hearing where the liquor license
will not be affirmatively acted on at such hearing.
   D.   Decisions Of the Commissioner: Any decision, order or determination
rendered by the commissioner which affects the rights, duties or privileges of
a licensee, shall be in writing and shall notify the licensee personally or by
certified mail of the decision within five (5) days of the hearing. Any such
decision, order or determination may include assessment of all costs, fees and
expenses as determined by the commissioner.
   E.   Waiver: Compliance with any or all of the provisions of this chapter
concerning procedure may be waived by written stipulation of all parties except
for the five (5) day notification and delivery of a decision of the
commissioner.
   F.   Continuances For Hearings:
      1.   A request for a continuance of any hearing in any matter before the
commissioner will not be allowed unless for good and valid reason in writing
and unless made at least two (2) days prior to the date set for hearing.
      2.   The commissioner may, in his discretion, grant a continuance if
extenuating and unusual circumstances are presented in support of the request
for continuance.
      3.   Any continuance requested by the licensee shall be contingent upon
payment by the licensee of all costs, fees, and expenses as determined by the
commissioner.
   G.   Appeal On the Record: Any appeal taken from a decision of the
commissioner shall be reviewed on the official record taken by and prepared by
a certified court reporter or certified shorthand reporter. (Ord. 15-O-25, 4-
21-2015; amd. Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.19: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Display Of Liquor License: The city certificate of license issued in
conformity with the provisions of this act shall be displayed at all times in a
prominent place in the said licensed establishment.
   B.   Abandonment: If the licensee to which a license has been issued
discontinues operations at the premises described in the application and
license for ninety (90) consecutive days, or whenever there is evidence of a
clear intent of the licensee to abandon the premises, said license shall be
subject to revocation.
   C.   Books And Records of Licensee: It shall be the duty of every retail
licensee to make books and records available upon reasonable notice for the
purpose of investigation and control by the Illinois liquor control commission
or the Commissioner. Such books and records need not be maintained on the
licensed premises, but must be maintained in the state. However, all original
invoices covering purchases of alcoholic liquor must be retained on the
licensed premises for a period of ninety (90) days after such purchase. (Ord.
15-O-25, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.20: INSPECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   A licensee or his agent or employee may sell, give or deliver alcoholic
liquor to a person under the age of twenty one (21) years or authorize the
sale, gift or delivery of alcoholic liquor to a person under the age of twenty
one (21) years pursuant to a plan or action to investigate, patrol or otherwise
conduct a “sting operation” or enforcement action against a person employed by
the licensee or on any licensed premises if the licensee, agent or employee of
the licensee provides written notice, at least fourteen (14) days before the
“sting operation” or enforcement action. Notice provided under this section
shall be valid for a “sting operation” or enforcement action conducted within
sixty (60) days of the provision of that notice.
   B.   The commissioner, through the police department that conducts alcohol
and tobacco compliance operations, shall establish a policy and standards for
alcohol and tobacco compliance operations to investigate whether a licensee is
furnishing: 1) alcoholic liquor to persons under twenty one (21) years of age
in violation of this chapter; or 2) tobacco products, electronic cigarettes or
alternative nicotine products to persons under 21 years of age in violation of
the Prevention of Cigarette Sales to Persons under 21 Years of Age Act (720
ILCS 678/1 et. seq.) or the Prevention of Tobacco Use by Persons under 21 Years
of Age and Sale and Distribution of Tobacco Products Act (720 ILCS 675.01 et.
seq.), as either may be subsequently amended or 3) tobacco accessories or
smoking herbs to any person under 21 years of age in violation of the Illinois
Tobacco Accessories and Smoking Herbs Control Act, 720 ILCS 685/2 et. seq., as
may be subsequently amended.
   C.   Any city law enforcement officer may at any time enter upon any
licensed premises to determine whether any of the provisions of this chapter or
whether any of the rules or regulations adopted by the city council or by the
state of Illinois have been or are being violated and at such time may examine
the licensed premises in connection therewith.
   D.   Any city law enforcement officer may receive a complaint from any
citizen that any of the provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations
adopted by the city council or by the state have been or are being violated,
and may act upon such complaints in the manner provided.
   E.   The commissioner shall have the authority to make and establish rules
and regulations of procedure concerning notice of hearings and all such other
matters as may from time to time be necessary, and to appoint a person or
persons to assist him in the exercise of the powers and the performance of the
duties herein.
   F.   It shall be a violation of this chapter to refuse to grant admittance
to a licensed premises at any time upon the verbal request of any police
officer or any other legally authorized person. (Ord. 15-O-25, 4-21-2015; amd.
Ord. 19-O-64, 8-6-2019)
3.3.21: SOCIAL HOSTING:
   A.   Definitions: In addition to those terms defined in title 1, chapter 3
of this code and section
3.3.1 of this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings
unless the context otherwise requires:
   ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, and which contains one-half
of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage
purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances.
   EVENT OR GATHERING: Any group of two (2) or more people who have assembled
or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
   HOST: To overtly aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise,
control, or permit a gathering or event.
   ILLICIT DRUGS: Any drug, substance, or compound prohibited by law, as
defined in the Illinois controlled substance act, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 570/100 et seq., or the Illinois cannabis control act, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq., including drugs prescribed by a physician
which are in the possession of or used by someone other than the person to whom
the drug was prescribed.
   RESPONSE COSTS: The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire, and other emergency response providers to an event or gathering,
including, but not limited to:
      1.   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement, fire, or
other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent responding to,
remaining at, or otherwise dealing with an event or gathering, and the
administrative costs attributable to such response(s);
      2.   The cost of any medical treatment for any law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire, or other emergency response personnel injured responding to,
remaining at, or leaving the scene of an event or gathering; and
      3.   The cost of repairing any city equipment or property damaged, and
the cost of the use of any such equipment, in responding to, remaining at, or
leaving the scene of an event or gathering.
   UNDERAGE PERSON: Any individual under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   B.   Violations: Except as permitted by state law, it shall be unlawful for
any person to permit, allow, or host an event or gathering at his or her place
of residence or other private property, public place, any other premises under
his or her control where alcohol, or alcoholic beverages, or illicit drugs are
consumed by an underage person at the event or gathering, if such person either
knows or reasonably should know that an underage person is consuming any
alcohol, or alcoholic beverages, or illicit drugs at the event or gathering.
   C.   Rebuttable Presumption Of Knowledge: It is the duty of any person who
permits, allows, or hosts an event or gathering at his or her place of
residence or other private property, public place, any vehicle, conveyance,
watercraft, or any other premises under his or her control, where underage
persons will be present, to take all reasonable steps to prevent the
consumption of alcohol, alcoholic beverages, or illicit drugs by any underage
person at the event or gathering. As such, a rebuttal presumption that a person
knows or reasonably should know that an underage person is consuming any
alcohol, alcoholic beverages, or illicit drugs shall exist when:
      1.   A person permits, allows, or hosts an event or gathering in which an
underage person has consumed alcohol, alcoholic beverages, or illicit drugs,
whether or not the person permitting, allowing, or hosting is present, if the
person has not taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of
alcohol, alcoholic beverages, or illicit drugs at the event or gathering by
underage persons;
      2.   A person who permits, allows, or hosts an event or gathering is
present at the event or gathering at any time an underage person consumes
illicit drugs, alcohol, or an alcoholic beverage.
      3.   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs at a religious ceremony or exclusively between
an underage person and his or her parent or legal guardian, as permitted by
state law.
   D.   Exception: A person who hosts an event or gathering shall not be in
violation of this section if he or she seeks assistance from the police
department or other law enforcement agency to terminate an event or gathering
where underage consumption of alcohol, alcoholic beverage, or illicit drugs is
occurring, so long as such assistance is sought before any other person makes a
complaint about the event or gathering. (Ord. 15-O-25, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 23-
O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.22: WINDOW SIGN LIMITATIONS:
   A.   No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total window and door
area that is visible from a public way shall include any signs or
advertisements for alcohol, tobacco, nicotine, or other controlled or age-
restricted substances including, but not limited to, cannabis products. Such
signs and advertisements shall include, but not be limited to, posters, fliers,
banners, paper signage, neon signage, and electronic signage. This limitation
applies regardless of whether the sign or advertisement is oriented to the
interior or the exterior of the premises. (Ord. 15-O-25, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord.
19-O-64, 8-6-2019; Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.3.23: FEES AND COSTS FOR LIQUOR LICENSES:
The City Manager, with the advice and consent of the Commissioner, is
authorized to establish fees for liquor licenses and applications and for such
other costs as may be imposed on license holders and applicants under this
Chapter. (Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3.4.1: Applicability of Provisions
3.4.2: Temporary Amusement Licenses
3.4.2.1: Carnivals
3.4.2.2: Table Games
3.4.2.3: Athletic Exhibitions
3.4.2.4: Billiard and Pool Halls
3.4.2.5: Bowling Alleys
3.4.2.6: Skating Rinks
3.4.3: Inspections
3.4.4: Smoking
3.4.5: Order Preserved
3.4.1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter, except those pertaining to licenses and fees,
shall apply to all amusements whether specifically licensed or not. (1963 Code,
§45.01)
3.4.2: TEMPORARY AMUSEMENT LICENSES:
No person shall conduct or operate any amusement which is open to the public
for admission to which a fee is charged without a license.
Fees for temporary amusement licenses are as follows:
   Carnivals, per day   25.00
   Circuses, per day   25.00
   Exhibitions of inanimate objects, per day   5.00
   Merry-go-rounds, per day   5.00
    or per week   20.00
   Other amusements, not specifically covered by any other section of this
Code, per day   5.00
(1963 Code, §45.02; 1986 Code)
3.4.2.1: CARNIVALS:
No permit for any carnival, circus, exhibition, show or other amusement to be
given on any public street or sidewalk or in such a place that the only main
accommodation for the public or the audience will be in a public place, shall
be granted except on order of the City Council. (1963 Code, §45.03)
3.4.2.2: TABLE GAMES:
   A.   No person, club or society shall have, keep, maintain or expose in any
place of public resort in the City any table games for the purpose of amusement
or test of skill without a license. The fee for such license is thirty five
dollars ($35.00) per year per game.
   B.   As used in this Section, the term "table game" means any device,
whether controlled by skill or chance, manually or mechanically, or the
operation of a game, pastime or contest by which a marble, ball, sphere, disc,
missile, object or figure is manipulated or set in motion. It shall include,
but is not restricted to, pinball machines and shuffleboards. (Ord. 1475, 12-5-
78)
3.4.2.3: ATHLETIC EXHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person shall conduct, operate or exhibit any race between persons,
animals or vehicles, or any baseball game, boxing or wrestling match or any
other athletic contest or exhibition for admission to which a fee is charged
without a license issued and approved by the City Manager or their designee;
sanctioned school district events are exempt. A license fee shall be set by the
City Manager and collected at the time of issuance. License fees are to be
waived for local businesses with brick-and-mortar locations within the City
limits that’s primary operations are subject to this section. (1963 Code,
§45.05)
   B.   Sufficient members of the Police Department shall be admitted free of
charge to all such exhibitions to preserve and maintain order. The Chief of
Police may post any number of persons to the box office of each performance,
who may examine all the books showing or tending to show the number of
spectators of any performance. (1963 Code, §45.06) (amd. Ord. 22-O-35, 6-21-
2022
3.4.2.4: BILLIARD AND POOL HALLS:
No person shall operate, maintain or conduct a billiard, pool, bagatelle or
pigeonhole table open to the public without a license. Application for such
license shall state the intended location of the place of business and the
number of tables to be used therein. The annual fee for such license is ten
dollars ($10.00) for each table or alley used. (1963 Code, §45.08)
3.4.2.5: BOWLING ALLEYS:
No person shall operate or maintain a bowling alley open to the public without
a license. Application for a bowling alley license shall state the intend ed
location of the place of business and the number of alleys to be used. The
annual fee for a bowling alley license is ten dollars ($10.00) for each alley.
(1963 Code, §45.09)
3.4.2.6: SKATING RINKS:
No person shall operate or conduct a public skating rink without a license. The
annual fee for public skating rinks is one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
rink. (1963 Code, §45.10)
3.4.3: INSPECTIONS:
The Chief of Police and the Fire Chief may see that every exhibition,
amusement, theatrical performance or other public show or amusement is
inspected by a member of the Police Department and a member of the Fire
Department. (1963 Code, §45.14)
3.4.4: SMOKING:
   A.   No person shall smoke or carry a lighted cigar, cigarette or pipe
beneath the stage or in a dressing room of any building used as an assembly
hall with seating accommodations for more than one hundred (100) per sons, or
in which theatrical performances, shows, amusements, lectures or other
entertainments are offered, operated, presented or exhibited.
   B.   The owner of such building, or the occupant in charge shall provide and
place printed signs on which the words "No Smoking" shall ap pear in letters at
least four inches (4") high, in conspicuous places in the building. At least
two (2) such signs shall be posted upon the stage or in the wings and one shall
be posted in each dressing room. (1963 Code, §45.19)
3.4.5: ORDER PRESERVED:
The audience of any amusement, show, theatrical performance or motion picture
shall be orderly and quiet at all times, and no person attending such
amusement, show or theatrical performance shall create a disturbance in the
audience. No person shall gather or permit to be gathered on the premises under
his control any crowd which creates a dangerous condition in the event of fire
or otherwise. (1963 Code, §45.13)
CHAPTER 5
RAFFLES
SECTION:
3.5.1: Definitions
3.5.2: License Requirements And Fees
3.5.3: License Issuance
3.5.4: Conduct Of Raffles
3.5.5: Raffles Manager, Bond
3.5.6: Records
3.5.7: Penalty For Violations
3.5.1: DEFINITIONS:
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: An organization or institution organized and
operated to benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to
those eligible for benefits must also confer some benefit upon the public.
   EDUCATION ORGANIZATION: An organization or institution organized and
operated to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by
methods common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably
in their scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax
supported schools.
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION: An organization of persons having a common interest,
the primary interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and
to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the
burdens of government by caring for those who otherwise would be cared for by
the government.
   INDIVIDUAL RAFFLE: A raffle in which there is a sale of chances in advance
of, and valid for, a single drawing only.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION: An organization composed of workers organized with the
objective of betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit in
the development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective
occupations.
   NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less sums
expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating expenses
incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   NONPROFIT: Organized, operated and conducted on a not for profit basis with
no personal profit to anyone as a result of such operation.
   ONGOING RAFFLE: A raffle in which there is one sale of chances before an
initial drawing date; thereafter, the chances shall be valid at subsequent
drawings in the same raffle.
   PERSON: An individual, firm, organization, public or private corporation,
government, partnership or unincorporated association.
   RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in section 28-2(b) of the "criminal
code of 1961 1 " conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter, in
which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other means, one or more of which chances are to be designated the winning
chance;
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   REGULAR RAFFLE: A raffle in which there is a sale of chances from week to
week or month to month in advance of a regularly scheduled weekly or monthly
drawing, and in which chances sold in advance of one drawing are not valid at a
subsequent drawing. Regular raffles may not be held any more frequently than
once weekly.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS: Any church, congregation, society or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS' ORGANIZATION: Organization or association comprised of members of
which substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (Ord. 1870, 9-18-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/28-2.
3.5.2: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS AND FEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a raffle, or to sell,
offer for sale, convey, issue or otherwise transfer for value a chance on a
raffle, unless conducted pursuant to a license duly issued by the city and in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   A.   Application For License: Any person seeking to conduct or operate a
raffle shall file an application therefor with the liquor commissioner on forms
provided by the liquor and license commissioner. Said application shall contain
the following information:
      1.   The name, address and type of organization.
      2.   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated,
the date and state of incorporation.
      3.   The name, address, telephone number, social security number, and
date of birth of the organization's presiding officer, secretary, raffles
manager, and any other members responsible for the conduct and operation of the
raffle.
      4.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in the
raffle.
      5.   The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded in the raffle.
      6.   The maximum price charged for each raffle chance issued or sold.
      7.   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued.
      8.   The area or areas in which raffle chances will be sold or issued.
      9.   The time period during which raffle chances will be issued or sold.
      10.   The date, time, and location at which winning chances will be
determined.
      11.   A sworn statement attesting to the not for profit character of the
applicant organization, signed by the presiding officer and secretary of that
organization.
      12.   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
   B.   License Fee Schedule: License fees shall be charged in accordance with
the following schedule:
 
Type                                                         Fee
Individual raffle, with aggregate prizes less than $500.00   $ 5.00
Individual raffle, with aggregate prizes of $500.00 and more 25.00
Ongoing raffle                                               5.00
Regular raffle                                               5.00
 
In the case of an ongoing or regular raffle, a licensee need not apply for a
new license for each drawing and pay a fee therefor. Said licensee may instead
request the liquor commissioner to renew said raffle license for a period of
time equal to the initial license, and pay a fee of five dollars ($5.00) for
each renewal.
Said application fees are nonrefundable even should the application be rejected
by the liquor commissioner. (Ord. 1870, 9-18-1984)
   C.   Licensee Qualifications: Raffle licenses shall be issued only to bona
fide charitable, educational, labor, religious and veterans' organizations that
operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five (5) years or more immediately before making
application for a license and which have had during that entire five (5) year
period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objects, or to a
nonprofit fundraising organization that the licensing authority determines is
organized for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an
identified individual or group of individuals suffering extreme financial
hardship as the result of illness, disability, accident or disaster. (Ord. 10-
O-50, 11-16-2010)
The following are ineligible for any license under this chapter:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony.
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter.
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character.
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection C1,
C2 or C3 of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in
which such a person is active or employed.
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection C1, C2 or
C3 of this section is an officer, director or employee whether compensated or
not.
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection C1, C2 or
C3 of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a
"raffle" as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 1870, 9-18-1984)
3.5.3: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
   A.   The liquor commissioner shall review all license applications. The
liquor commissioner shall, within thirty (30) days from the date of the
application, accept or reject the raffle license application. If an application
is accepted, the liquor commissioner shall forthwith issue a raffle license to
the applicant. An individual raffle license shall be valid for a period of
thirty (30) days from and after its issuance unless the liquor commissioner has
specifically authorized a license for a longer period of time, but not for more
than ninety (90) days. An ongoing raffle license or a regular raffle license
shall be valid for a period of not exceeding one year from and after its
issuance.
   B.   A raffle license shall show the following:
      1.   The area or areas in which raffle chances may be sold.
      2.   The period of time during which raffle chances may be sold or
issued.
      3.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold.
      4.   The date, time and location on or at which winning chances will be
determined.
   C.   Said license shall be prominently displayed at the time and location of
the determination of the winning chances.
   D.   An individual raffle license shall be valid for one raffle only.
   E.   An ongoing raffle license or a regular raffle license shall be valid
for only those dates contained in the license application. (Ord. 1870, 9-18-
1984)
3.5.4: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
   A.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   B.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   C.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   D.   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning chance
or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed under
this chapter.
   E.   Raffle chances may be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred for value only within the area specified on the license,
and winning chances may be determined only at those locations specified in the
license.
   F.   Each raffle chance shall have printed thereon the following:
      1.   The cost of said chance.
      2.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in said
raffle.
      3.   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued.
      4.   The date(s), time(s), and location(s) on or at which winning chances
will be determined.
However, when raffle chances are sold, conveyed, issued, or otherwise
transferred only at the time and location at which winning chances will be
determined and only to persons then in attendance, the face of the raffle
chance need not contain such information.
   G.   No real property, including land and any buildings thereon, may be the
prize in a raffle unless the organization holding the raffle license owns fee
simple title as to the entire subject real property.
   H.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years
may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only when
accompanied by his parent or guardian.
   I.   No chance shall be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred for value to or by any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years without the permission of his parent or guardian.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any person may make a gift of a chance to any
person of any age. (Ord. 1870, 9-18-1984)
3.5.5: RAFFLES MANAGER, BOND:
   A.   All operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the
supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the organization.
   B.   The raffles manager shall give a fidelity bond, equal in amount to the
aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded, in favor of the licensee,
conditioned upon his honesty in the performance of his duties. Terms of the
bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the licensing
authority not less than thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation.
   C.   Fidelity bond shall not be required of a raffle manager conducting a
raffle in which the aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded does not
exceed the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), provided that any such
license granting such a waiver provision shall be granted only upon the
unanimous vote of the members of the licensed organization. (Ord. 1870, 9-18-
1984)
3.5.6: RECORDS:
   A.   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses, and
net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which winning chances are
to be determined. All deductions from gross receipts for each single gathering
or occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
   B.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the licensee, including bingo gross receipts,
if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant
to license therefor issued by the department of revenue of the state of
Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each licensee shall have separate
records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses
and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who
accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   C.   Each licensee shall report within thirty (30) days after the conclusion
of each raffle to its membership, and to the liquor commissioner its gross
receipts, expenses, and net proceeds for raffles, and the distribution of net
proceeds itemized as required herein.
   D.   Records required herein shall be preserved for three (3) years, and
licensees shall make available their records relating to operation of raffles
for public inspection at reasonable times and places. (Ord. 1870, 9-18-1984)
3.5.7: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any person, firm, corporation, or organization found guilty of violating,
disobeying, or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 10-O-50, 11-16-2010)
CHAPTER 6
TEMPORARY VENDORS, JUNK DEALERS, PEDDLERS AND STREET AND SIDEWALK ADVERTISING
SECTION:
3.6.1: Definitions
3.6.2: Public Policy
3.6.3: Temporary Vendors
3.6.4: Junk Dealers
3.6.5: Peddlers
3.6.6: Mobile Food Truck Vendors
3.6.7: Distribution Of Handbills, Samples
3.6.1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words as used herein shall be
construed to have the meaning ascribed thereto:
   MOBILE FOOD TRUCK VENDOR: The operator or proprietor of a vehicle (or other
temporary or portable equipment) intended or designed for the cooking or
preparation of hot and cold ready-to-eat food, prepackaged foods and drink for
sale or distribution on a temporary basis at locations that may change from
time to time. The term “Mobile Food Truck Vendor” shall include, but not be
limited to, vehicles and tents, tables, food carts and other material used for
such temporary food and drink service.
   OCCASION: A period of no more than three (3) consecutive days within a seven
(7) day period.
   PEDDLING: The use of the public streets by audibly soliciting orders for or
selling goods, wares or other merchandise from a vehicle traveling from place
to place in the course of making sales.
   RESIDENCE: Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING: The door to door seeking to sell goods, wares, merchandise,
foodstuffs, services of any kind, nature or character for any kind of
consideration for delivery at the premises where sold; or seeking to obtain
orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, services of
any kind, character or description whatever for any consideration whatsoever
for delivery at a future date; or seeking to obtain prospective customers for
application or purchase of insurance of any type or character; or seeking to
obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals, newspapers and every
other type or kind of publication.
   TEMPORARY VENDOR: Any person engaging or intending to engage in business as
a merchant on public property in a temporary, stationary structure on public
property in the city of Woodstock. (Ord. 12-O-16, 2-21-2012; amd. Ord. 20-O-68,
9-22-2020; Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.6.2: PUBLIC POLICY:
   A.   Policy Declared: It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city
council that the occupant or occupants of residences in the city shall make the
determination as to whether solicitors, peddlers or hawkers shall be or shall
not be invited to their respective residences.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: The practice of going in and upon private residences
in the city by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants, transient
vendors of merchandise, not having been requested or invited to do so by the
owners or occupants of said private residences, for the purpose of soliciting
orders for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise and/or disposing of and/or
peddling or hawking the same is hereby declared to be a nuisance and punishable
as such nuisance as a misdemeanor.
   C.   Duty To Obtain Invitation: It shall be the duty of every solicitor,
peddler, hawker or itinerant merchant or vendor of goods, before going to any
premises in the city, to obtain an express invitation from the owners of said
residences or the occupants of said residences, either by mail or telephone.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to go in or upon private residences for the
purpose of soliciting the invitation specified in this section and such
practice is hereby declared to be a nuisance and punishable as such nuisance as
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 1032, 7-3-1973)
      2.   It is hereby declared unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for
any person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any
residence located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound
in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such
residence prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
(Ord. 1032, 7-3-1973; amd. 1986 Code)
   D.   Exceptions: Subject to the limitations contained in subsection C2 of
this section, the prohibition against the practice of going in or upon private
residences by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants or transient
vendors of merchandise shall not apply to any person or group of persons
soliciting gifts or other valuable items for the purpose of supporting or for
the benefit of any charitable or not for profit association, organization or
corporation project. All persons involved in such activities must first
register with the chief of police. (Ord. 1213, 8-5-1975; amd. 1986 Code)
3.6.3: TEMPORARY VENDORS:
   A.   No person shall do business on public property in the city of Woodstock
as a temporary vendor without a license, unless:
      1.   Part of an approved event on the Square; or
      2.   Unless approved by the City Manager pursuant to Section
5.3.17 of the Woodstock City Code. Peddlers and mobile food truck vendors shall
not be considered temporary vendors.
   B.   Possession of a temporary vendor license is a privilege, not a right;
and the city reserves the right in its sole discretion to determine the number
of temporary vendor licenses to be issued and to refuse issuance of or to
rescind said license.
   C.   Any vendor who violates the terms or conditions of the license is
subject to revocation of the license.
   D.   Applications for a temporary vendor's license shall be made to the city
upon forms supplied by the city, not less than seven (7) business days in
advance of the date for which the license is requested. No license shall be
issued unless the application has been completed in full.
   E.   If determined necessary by the city, applicant and all designated
employees must submit to and satisfactorily pass a background check. Actual
cost for a city approved background check shall be paid for in advance by the
applicant. Upon approval of and at the discretion of the city manager, the
requirement for a background check may be waived for any individual able to
present proof of a satisfactory background check conducted within the calendar
year of the application.
   F.   In addition to completed application, applicant must supply proof of
liability insurance, naming the city of Woodstock as certificate holder and
additional insured, for the activity to be licensed in an amount not less than
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) combined single limit.
   G.   If applicable, applicant must supply proof of health department permit.
   H.   If applicable, applicant must supply proof of valid driver's license.
   I.   Prior to issuance of license, applicant must execute a hold harmless
agreement with the city of Woodstock.
   J.   The fee for a temporary vendor's license for the first vehicle or
temporary structure is one hundred dollars ($100.00) per season, defined as the
calendar year, January 1 through December 31. The fee for a temporary vendor's
license for each subsequent vehicle or temporary structure owned by the same
applicant shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per calendar year. All temporary
vendor licenses shall terminate on December 31 following date of issuance.
   K.   Applicant must abide by all other conditions for approval as set forth
by the city of Woodstock, including, but not limited to, location of vehicle or
temporary structure, duration of stay, placement of signage, use of auxiliary
equipment, and trash collection.
   L.   Upon approval of the city manager and upon satisfactory execution of a
document stating same, the requirement for background checks and the fee for a
temporary vendor's license may be waived for any not for profit group operating
as a temporary vendor by and for the exclusive benefit of the not for profit.
   M.   The temporary vendor license issued in conformity with the provisions
of this section shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place in said
concession.
   N.   Any and all temporary vendor licenses shall be subject to any
restrictions or conditions deemed necessary for the public health, safety and
welfare by the City Manager or designee.
   O.   For sales tax reporting purposes, the City of Woodstock shall be the
point of sale for all sales by a temporary vendor occurring within the
corporate limits. (Ord. 12-O-16, 2-21-2012; amd. Ord. 20-O-35, 5-20-2020; Ord.
20-O-68, 9-22-2020)
3.6.4: JUNK DEALERS:
   A.   No person shall operate or carry on the business of junk dealer or keep
any junk shop, store or place for the purchase or sale of junk without a
license.
   B.   The fee for a junk dealer's license is ten dollars ($10.00) per year,
and an additional fee of two dollars ($2.00) for each vehicle used in the
conduct of such business; and for a junk dealer not maintaining a store or yard
in the city, an additional ten dollars ($10.00) per vehicle used.
   C.   Every keeper of a junk shop who receives or is in possession of any
goods, articles or things of value which may have been lost or stolen shall,
upon demand, show such articles or things to any member of the police
department for examination.
   D.   Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his business
shall bear, in legible characters, the name and address of the owner and
proprietor. (1963 Code, §44.02)
3.6.5: PEDDLERS:
   A.   No person shall engage in the business of hawker or peddler of any
merchandise, article or thing in the city of Woodstock without a license.
   B.   Possession of a peddler's license is a privilege, not a right; and the
city reserves the right in its sole discretion to determine the number of
peddler's licenses to be issued and to refuse issuance of or to rescind said
license.
   C.   Any peddler who violates the terms or conditions of the license is
subject to revocation of the license.
   D.   Applications for a peddler's license shall be made to the office of the
city manager upon forms supplied by the city, not less than seven (7) business
days in advance of the date for which the license is requested. No license
shall be issued unless the application shall be completed in full.
   E.   If determined necessary by the city, applicant and all designated
employees must submit to and satisfactorily pass a background check. Actual
cost for a city approved background check shall be paid for in advance by the
applicant. Upon approval of and at the discretion of the city manager, the
requirement for a background check may be waived for any individual able to
present proof of a satisfactory background check conducted within the calendar
year of the application.
   F.   In addition to the completed application, applicant must supply proof
of liability insurance, naming the city of Woodstock as certificate holder and
additional insured, for the activity to be licensed in an amount not less than
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) combined single limit.
   G.   If applicable, applicant must supply proof of health department permit.
   H.   If applicable, applicant must supply proof of valid driver's license
for all required individuals.
   I.   Prior to issuance of license, applicant must execute a hold harmless
agreement with the city of Woodstock.
   J.   The fee for a peddler's license is one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
the first vehicle per calendar year, January 1 through December 31. The fee for
a peddler's license for each subsequent vehicle owned by the same applicant
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per calendar year. All peddler's licenses shall
expire on December 31 following date of issuance.
   K.   No peddler shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating or misrepresentation,
whether through himself or through an employee, while acting as a peddler, nor
shall barter, sell or peddle any goods, wares, or merchandise other than those
specified in his application for license.
   L.   Any and all peddler’s licenses shall be subject to any restrictions or
conditions deemed necessary for the public health, safety and welfare by the
City Manager or designee.
   M.   For sales tax reporting purposes, the City of Woodstock shall be the
point of sale for all sales by a peddler occurring within the corporate limits.
(Ord. 12-O-16, 2-21-2012; amd. Ord. 20-O-68, 9-22-2020)
3.6.6: MOBILE FOOD TRUCK VENDORS:
   A.   No person shall do business as a Mobile Food Truck Vendor on either (i)
public property, or (ii) private property within 100 feet of any business
serving prepared food, unless they have obtained a license from the City. This
restriction shall not apply to the farmer’s market or to special events
otherwise approved by the City.
   B.   Possession of a Mobile Food Truck Vendor's license is a privilege, not
a right; and the city reserves the right at the sole discretion of the City
Manager to determine the number of Mobile Food Truck Vendor's licenses to be
issued and to refuse issuance of or to rescind said license.
   C.   Any Mobile Food Truck Vendor who violates the terms or conditions of
the license is subject to revocation of the license.
   D.   A mobile food truck shall not be located on any parcel zoned
residential, unless approved by the City Manager as part of a special event.
   E.   A mobile food truck shall be situated on a suitable surface, as
determined by the City Manager.
   F.   A mobile food truck shall not be located between an existing parking
lot and the street and shall not interfere with fire lanes or with vehicular or
pedestrian circulation. Any means of emergency ingress/egress to an existing
principal use on a parcel shall not be blocked. The city, at the City Manager's
(or the City Manager's designee's) sole discretion, may require that permit
applications be reviewed by the Police and Public Works departments and the
Woodstock Fire/Rescue District for public safety issues.
   G.   Proposed signage used in conjunction with a mobile food truck shall not
conflict with the sign requirements of the Woodstock Unified Development
Ordinance and may not present any safety hazard.
   H.   Portable lights, lights which flash, and similar attention-getting
devices are not permitted. Outside amplifying equipment or noisemakers shall
not be used.
   I.   Any power required for a mobile food truck located on public property
shall be self-contained and shall not use utilities drawn from public property,
unless otherwise approved by the city.
   J.   Mobile food trucks must provide receptacles for refuse or use waste
receptacles unless otherwise authorized by the City Manager, and must properly
dispose of all waste on a daily basis.
   K.   Mobile food trucks may not provide seating or tables for their
customers.
   L.   Hours of operation for a Mobile Food Truck Vendor shall be limited to
between 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
   M.   Applications for a Mobile Food Truck Vendor's license shall be made to
the office of the City Manager upon forms supplied by the city, not less than
seven (7) calendar days in advance of the date for which the license is
requested. No license shall be issued unless the application is completed in
full.
   N.   In addition to the completed application, applicant must supply the
following:
      1.   Mobile Food Truck Vendors locating on private or public property
shall provide written permission from any business(es) or merchant(s)
immediately adjacent to the area on which the mobile food truck will be
located.
      2.   A site plan or map showing the location of the mobile food truck,
with property lines, physical improvements, existing buildings and structures,
parking areas and spaces, and similar features along with information regarding
provisions for power, potable water, and sanitary waste disposal.
      3.   Depiction of the appearance and design of the mobile food truck,
including exterior dimensions, signage, and exterior lighting features.
      4.   Proof of liability insurance for the activity to be licensed, naming
the city of Woodstock as additional insured, in an amount not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined single limit.
      5.   A valid copy of all necessary licenses or permits required by the
State and County health authorities for the operation of a mobile food truck.
      6.   A valid copy of the driver's licenses for all individuals operating
the mobile food truck.
   O.   Prior to issuance of a license, applicant must:
      1.   Execute an indemnification and hold harmless agreement with the city
of Woodstock for any and all claims related to the activity to be licensed.
      2.   Provide an affidavit of service stating that the applicant has
notified, by first class US mail or e-mail, the owner(s) or proprietor(s) of
any licensed food service establishment or restaurant within two-hundred and
fifty (250) feet from the proposed mobile food truck location, as measured from
a customer entrance of the private property location or from the proposed and
approved public property location of the mobile food truck.
   P.   A Mobile Food Truck Vendor's license is valid for one (1) vehicle only
and shall not be transferable from person to person, business to business or
from place to place without the approval of the City Manager.
   Q.   The initial fee for a Mobile Food Truck Vendor's license is fifty
dollars ($50) for the first Occasion, as defined herein, and twenty-five
dollars ($25) for each subsequent Occasion to a maximum of three hundred
dollars ($300) annually. A Mobile Food Truck Vendor's license shall be valid
for a single Occasion, and no applicant shall be issued more than thirty (30)
licenses, unless otherwise approved by the City Council. Provided, however,
that this fee and license requirement shall be waived for any applicant having
a brick and mortar restaurant or other licensed food service establishment
operating in the city.
   R.   Any and all Mobile Food Truck Vendor's licenses shall be subject to any
restrictions or conditions deemed necessary for the public health, safety and
welfare by the City Manager or designee, and the license may be revoked for
good cause shown by the City, including failure to comply with any provisions
of the City Code or any risk to public health, safety and welfare.
   S.   For sales tax reporting purposes, the City of Woodstock shall be the
point of sale for all sales from a mobile food truck occurring within the
corporate limits. (Ord. 20-O-68, 9-22-2020; amd. Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
3.6.7: DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS, SAMPLES:
   A.   Streets: No person shall distribute indiscriminately to the public any
cards, circulars, handbills, samples of merchandise, or any advertising matter
whatsoever on any public street or sidewalk or other public place in the city.
This subsection does not prohibit the peddling or sale of any article or
publication that may carry or be accompanied by advertising matter where a
charge is made or price paid for such article or publication. (1963 Code,
§44.04)
   B.   House To House:
      1.   No person shall distribute indiscriminately to the public, by
leaving the same at stores, offices, houses or residences in the city any
cards, circulars, handbills, samples of merchandise, or any advertising matter
without a permit. This subsection does not apply to the sale of articles by
licensed peddlers.
      2.   The application for a permit shall contain a statement of the nature
of the articles or cards or advertisements to be distributed and the name of
the applicant and the name of the manufacturer or distributor of such article
or service advertised.
      3.   The fee for such permit is two dollars ($2.00) per day.
      4.   No permit shall be issued to any but a person of good character. The
chief of police shall make an investigation into the character of each
applicant and shall report the results thereof to the city clerk before the
permit is issued. (1963 Code, §44.05)
   C.   Distributing Samples, Advertisements: No person shall distribute, cast,
throw or place, or cause to be distributed, cast, thrown or placed in, upon or
along any of the streets, alleys or public places of the city, or upon the
porches or yards of private residences therein or within any dwelling or
building in the city, any samples of merchandise or medicinal preparations for,
or with the intent of advertising or making known in a general or promiscuous
manner any business, occupation, medical treatment, medicine or any other
article whatsoever. (1963 Code, §44.07)
CHAPTER 7
GARAGE SALES
SECTION:
3.7.1: Purpose
3.7.2: Definition
3.7.3: Permit Required
3.7.4: Standards
3.7.5: Enforcement
3.7.1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is to establish procedures for the regulation
of garage sales and to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. The
provisions of this chapter are intended to encourage, to the greatest extent
possible, the voluntary correction of violations. (Ord. 08-0-70, 11-18-2008,
eff. 1-1-2009)
3.7.2: DEFINITION:
The term "garage sale" shall mean the temporary public sale of five (5) or more
items of personal property, for no more than four (4) days at a time and no
more than two (2) nonconsecutive times in a single calendar year, which is
conducted on a premises zoned and used for residential activity and occupied by
a residential dwelling, and which is conducted by the resident or residents
residing on said premises. The term "garage sale" shall include yard sale,
moving sale, and rummage sale, but shall not include temporary public sales
conducted by a school, church, or similar institutional use. (Ord. 08-0-70, 11-
18-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
3.7.3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Prior to the start of a garage sale, a permit must be applied for and obtained
from the department of community and economic development. An application form
for applying for such a permit can be obtained from the department of community
and economic development. The fee for a garage sale permit shall be five
dollars ($5.00) for each garage sale event. Upon issuance, the garage sale
permit shall be visibly posted on the premises. (Ord. 08-0-70, 11-18-2008, eff.
1-1-2009)
3.7.4: STANDARDS:
   A.   Garage sales are permitted in all residential zoning districts between
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
   B.   No person conducting a garage sale under the provisions of this chapter
shall sell or offer for sale any food or beverage for consumption on the
premises. Food or beverage may be provided for such consumption at no cost to
the consumer, subject to compliance with applicable McHenry County department
of health requirements and regulations.
   C.   No fee or other charge shall be imposed upon members of the public
attending a garage sale.
   D.   The sale of items purchased elsewhere for resale at a garage sale is
prohibited.
   E.   Items intended for sale shall not be displayed in a front yard or side
yard of a dwelling except on the day or days of the sale, and shall not remain
outside a building or enclosed structure before or after such sale hours. In no
instance shall such items be displayed in a public right of way.
   F.   Signage advertising a garage sale shall be limited to one on premises
sign and a maximum of two (2) off premises signs, each of which shall not be
larger than two and one-half (21/2) square feet in area or have a height of
more than three feet (3') above grade. Such signage shall be affixed with a
sticker supplied by the city indicating that the required garage sale permit
has been issued. The content of such a sign shall be limited to the time, date
(s), and location of the garage sale. In addition, such signage shall be self-
supporting and not attached to any utility pole, light pole, or street sign,
and shall be removed within twenty four (24) hours of when the garage sale
ends. Attention getting devices, including balloons, streamers, special
lighting, noise making devices and similar displays, shall not be used to call
attention to the garage sale. (Ord. 08-0-70, 11-18-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
3.7.5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, the deputy city manager or designee shall
have primary responsibility for enforcing and interpreting these regulations
and may, at his or her discretion, delegate the enforcement and interpretation
duties set forth herein. (Ord. 08-0-70, 11-18-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
   B.   The deputy city manager or designee shall have the right and authority,
upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter onto and inspect any land,
building, structure, or premises to ensure compliance with this chapter. (Ord.
08-0-70, 11-18-2008, eff. 1-1-2009; amd. Ord. 09-0-24, 4-21-2009, eff. 5-1-
2009)
CHAPTER 8
GARBAGE, YARD WASTE, RECYCLABLES AND OTHER REFUSE
SECTION:
3.8.1: Definitions
3.8.2: Residential Refuse, Recycling And Yard Waste Program
3.8.3: Solid Waste Disposal Facilities Charges
3.8.4: Enforcement
3.8.1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter, whether capitalized or not, are defined as follows:
ACCEPTABLE WASTE: Shall mean all non-hazardous solid waste generated by
households in the ordinary course including food wastes and discarded papers,
cardboard, plastics, cloth, glass and metal materials, but excluding excluded
waste as defined herein. Residential waste shall be considered “acceptable
waste” only if properly contained in a tote provided by the contractor and
placed at the curbside on the proper weekly collection day. As used herein, the
term “waste” shall mean acceptable waste unless the context demonstrates
otherwise. Bulk waste is considered acceptable waste only when disposed of the
in manner provided by this chapter.
BULK ITEM: Couches, chairs, mattresses, tables, furniture, floor coverings not
to exceed six feet (6') in length and three feet (3') in diameter and other
waste materials. Bulk items do not include white goods, hazardous waste and
electronic equipment. Six (6) chairs or less will be considered as one (1) bulk
item.
CITY: The city of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois.
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS, OR DEBRIS: Waste material resulting from
building construction, alteration, demolition or repair and dirt from
excavations.
CONTRACTOR: A solid waste hauler under contract with the city to provide
exclusive solid waste services to city residents.
CURBSIDE: Off the street pavement and within five feet (5') thereof, regardless
of the existence of a curb or curb and gutter combination. When a conflict
arises concerning a specific curbside pickup location, the city shall have the
exclusive right to determine the final pick-up point for the property in
question.
EXCLUDED WASTE: Shall mean, without limitation, any regulated quantity of
electronic waste, a hazardous substance as defined by federal, state or local
laws or regulations; containerized wastes, the contents of which are not able
to be identified; sludges; waste from a pollution control process or cleanup of
a spill of a chemical substance or commercial product; waste tires; biohazards
or regulated medical waste; friable asbestos; construction and demolition
waste; soil, sod, tree branches and stumps; paint; motor oil; excessive storm
debris or debris resulting from weather events such as hurricanes or tropical
storms; or any item too large or heavy to be contained within a ninety-five
(95) gallon tote, not including bulk items. Title to and liability for excluded
waste shall remain with the resident that generated the excluded waste at all
times.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Waste, in any amount, which is defined, characterized or
designated as hazardous by the U.S. environmental protection agency or Illinois
environmental protection agency by or pursuant to federal or state law, or
waste, in any amount, which is regulated under federal or state law. Hazardous
waste also includes motor oil, gasoline, tires, paint and paint cans.
HOLIDAY: Shall include the following recognized days: New Year's Day; Memorial
Day; July 4th; Labor Day; Thanksgiving Day; Christmas Day.
LITTER: Garbage, refuse, paper, waste material, or other such debris or
substances placed or allowed to remain on the ground.
MULTI-FAMILY UNIT: A group of four (4) or less single-family dwelling units
attached through the ceiling, floor or sidewalls physically located above or
below another, each unit being under separate ownership or being rented or
leased by a family or individual.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS OR RECYCLABLES: Those items which become a secondary raw
material that is processed into a useful, marketable material. For purposes of
this chapter, the following materials are deemed to be recyclable:
Aluminum cans;
Steel and tin cans;
Newspaper and all newspaper inserts;
Glass containers (all colors);
HDPE plastics (code 1);
PET plastics (Code 1);
Recyclable plastics (codes 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7);
Chipboard;
Corrugated cardboard;
Magazines and telephone books; and
Junk mail and other similar paper products.
RECYCLING CONTAINERS: A sixty-five (65) gallon mobile toter provided by the
contractor used for the collection of recyclables.
REFUSE: All household garbage, rubbish, and kitchen wastes such as discarded
food or food residues and paper necessarily used for wrapping same. Refuse does
not include any of the following materials: materials classified as
recyclables, materials classified as yard waste, materials from construction or
razing of buildings, waste from any manufacturing processes, or hazardous
materials as defined by federal, state, or local law, rule or regulation.
REFUSE CONTAINERS: A ninety-five (95) gallon mobile toter provided by
contractor or an optional thirty-five (35) gallon mobile toter if provided in
manner consistent with this chapter; used for the collection of acceptable
waste.
RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER OR RESIDENCE OR RESIDENTIAL UNIT: (i) any single-family
detached residence, or (ii) single-family attached residence, or (iii) multi-
family unit.
RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION PROGRAM: The waste hauling program governed
by this chapter for all residential customers.
SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED RESIDENCE: A group of dwelling units attached by a wall
or walls, extending from basement to the roof, each unit being accessible by
its own separate exterior entrance at grade level, and also each unit being
under separate ownership; e.g., rowhouse, townhouse, condominium.
SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED RESIDENCE: A free-standing, single-family dwelling unit.
STICKERS: Prepaid refuse and yard waste sticker provided exclusively by the
contractor sold through the city and local business operators.
TOTE OR TOTER: The containers provided by the contractor for disposal of
refuse, recyclables and yard waste.
SCHEDULED DAY OF COLLECTION: The day of the week which collection of acceptable
waste, recyclables and yard waste will be collected. Collection day will be the
same day of the week to any residential customers. If scheduled day of
collection falls on a holiday, then collection for the remaining days that week
will be one (1) day later.
SENIOR TOTE SERVICE: Any person who owns or rents a residence in the City of
Woodstock aged sixty-five (65) or over is eligible for the senior tote service.
Age verification will be handled by City of Woodstock and communicated to
contractor at least monthly.
WHITE GOODS: Appliances containing hazardous components as defined in 415
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22.28, including, but not limited to, stoves,
refrigerators, freezers, washing machines, dryers, dishwashers, air
conditioners, humidifiers, dehumidifiers, hot water heaters, furnaces and trash
compactors.
YARD WASTE: Grass clippings, weeds, leaves, cut up branches (not to exceed
three inches (3") in diameter and four feet (4') in length) and brush. Yard
waste shall be placed in separate containers from refuse.
YARD WASTE CONTAINERS: A ninety- five (95) gallon tote provided by contractor
for residents that have subscribed to seasonal yard waste. (Ord. 14-O-67, 12-
16-2014; amd. Ord. 25-O-02, 2-4-2025)
3.8.2: RESIDENTIAL REFUSE, RECYCLING AND YARD WASTE PROGRAM:
   A.   This chapter shall govern the city’s residential solid waste hauling
program from residential units, including for refuse, recyclables, yard waste,
and bulk item pick- up.
   B.   A single city-approved solid waste hauler (the contractor) shall
provide such services at any one (1) time under the terms of its contract with
the city. Refuse, recyclables, yard waste, and bulk item waste may only be
removed from the curbside by the contractor, a city authorized agent, or the
customer or property owner.
   C.   Participation in the residential solid waste collection program is
mandatory for all residential units in accord with this chapter. Each
residential unit must have its own refuse and recyclable toter.
   D.   The contractor will furnish all labor, materials and equipment in
manner consistent with the contractor’s agreement with the city. The contractor
will initially furnish each new residential unit customer with a ninety-five
(95) gallon mobile toter (or optional thirty- five (35) gallon mobile toter, as
provided in this chapter) for refuse pickup and a sixty-five (65) gallon mobile
toter for recyclables. All such toters shall remain the property of the
contractor, but residential customers shall have custody of such toters while
at their residence. Customers shall use the tote only for its proper and
intended purpose. Customers shall not overload (by weight or volume), move,
alter or install any devices on the tote, and shall not manually or
mechanically compact any materials inside the tote, except inside compactor
receiver boxes specially designed for such purpose, and shall not allow any
third party to take any such actions. Customers may be charged additional
charges each time that a container is overloaded (by weight or volume).
   E.   Refuse and recyclables will be picked up once weekly from the curbside.
Yard waste will be pick upon from the curbside weekly from April 1st through
December 1st on the same day as refuse and recyclable pick-up.
   F.   Containers: All acceptable waste, recyclables and yard waste must be
placed in the appropriate approved containers or shall be bagged with a sticker
to be purchased from the city or local businesses, as follows:
      1.   Refuse: Acceptable waste shall be placed in the ninety-five (95)
gallons refuse container provided by contractor (or the optional thirty-five
(35) gallon mobile toter if provided in a manner consistent with this chapter).
Additional waste will be collected, but it must be in individual garbage bags
provided by the residents which shall not exceed fifty (50) pounds in weight
and must have a sticker affixed to each bag. Garbage bag(s) that have the
appropriate stickers(s) attached may be placed in a garbage can for pickup,
provided that all refuse is contained by the bag(s).
      2.   Recyclables: All recyclables should first be placed in the sixty-
five (65) gallon recyclable’s mobile toter provided by the contractor.
Additional recyclables can be placed in any hard-walled plastic container or
any basket, box or bag which can fully contain recyclable materials to prevent
spilling by wind or other elements on the right of way, and to reduce unsightly
appearance on set out and collection days. All jars, bottles and cans should be
rinsed, and tops should be removed from plastic and glass. To protect the
recyclability of recyclables, the condition of recyclables must comply with any
other requirements of contractor if those requirements have been communicated
to residents by the city.
      3.   Yard Waste: For residents that have a seasonal yard waste
subscription, all yard waste should be placed in the ninety-five (95) gallon
tote provided by contractor. For residents using stickers, any yard waste
container must be a hard walled, typical garbage can or container not to exceed
thirty- three (33) gallons (marked with a large “X” which is clearly visible
from the street) or any 2-ply fifty (50) pound weight strength kraft paper yard
waste bag. Yard waste may also be disposed of by securely tying it into
separate bundles, which are no longer than four feet (4') long, three inches
(3") in diameter and weigh less than fifty (50) pound each. Each yard waste
container or bundle must have a sticker attached.
      4.   Bulk Items: One (1) bulk item may be collected each week without any
additional charge by placing it curbside at the regularly schedule pick-up
time. Additional items will be collected using five (5) stickers for each
items.
      5.   Christmas Trees may be placed curbside for pickup anytime during the
first time two (2) weeks of January.
   G.   Time: All acceptable waste, recyclables and yard waste and any bulk
items shall be placed curbside and be unobstructed and readily accessible to
the contractor’s personnel by six o’clock (6:00) A.M. on the scheduled day of
collection.
   H.   Residents shall have the option to put their residential waste hauling
service on vacation hold for a period of no less than one (1) month or no
longer than three (3) months in one (1) calendar year. A vacation hold request
must be received at least thirty (30) days in advance. Vacation hold time shall
be granted only once per year in a consecutive manner.
   I.   Additional Services: Residents may contact the city’s contractor
directly to arrange for special curbside collection service for large
quantities of refuse including, but not limited to, household construction and
demolition debris, and move-in or move-out clean-up rubbish.
   J.   Title To Material: As soon as acceptable waste, recyclables and yard
waste is placed in the contractor’s or city’s vehicle it shall become the
property of the contractor. Title to and liability for excluded waste shall
remain with the resident that generated the excluded waste at all times.
   K.   Residents shall maintain in good order and repair any totes provided by
the contractor. (Ord. 14-O-67, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 25-O-02, 2-4-2025)
3.8.3: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES CHARGES:
   A.   Tote Service And Park Porta-Potty Or Other Sanitary Facilities Charges:
Each residential customer shall pay the following service charges which are
intended to cover the respective costs due to the contractor, the cost to the
city of providing porta-potty or other sanitary service to city facilities
(which shall be added to the cost of solid waste hauling contract service
charges), and the associated administrative costs of operation of the
residential solid waste hauling program.
   B.   1.   Refuse Charges: The charges shall be twenty-five and seventeen
cents ($25.17) per month for each refuse container provided to an account by
the city as of July 1, 2025 and ten dollars and fifty cents ($10.50) for each
residence utilizing the senior tote service. Additional refuse may be disposed
of using refuse stickers which may be purchased from the city at the rate of
three dollars and thirty-eight cents ($3.38) per sticker. In the event greater
than two hundred (200) residential units not utilizing the senior tote service,
elect the thirty-five (35) gallon garbage tote option, refuse charges will
change in accordance with the agreement with the city’s contract. For each
additional one hundred (100) residents not utilizing the service tote service
who choose this option, an additional cost of five cents ($0.05) will apply to
all refuse and senior tote service rates. Example, if two hundred-fifty (250)
residents not utilizing the senior tote service choose the thirty-five (35)
gallon option, then an additional five cents ($0.05) will apply to these
service rates no matter how many residents are using the senior tote service,
which will be in effect at the beginning of the next month. If three hundred
one (301) residents and one hundred twenty-five (125) residents on the senior
tote service were to elect the thirty-five (35) gallon option, then ten cents
($0.10) would apply.
      2.   Recyclable Charges: There shall be no additional charge for
recycling services for the first sixty-five (65) gallon recycling container.
Residents may arrange for an additional sixty-five (65) gallon recycling
container at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) more per month for 2025.
      3.   Yard Waste Charges: Residents may subscribe to an annual yard waste
pick-up program that will run one (1) time weekly from April through the first
full week of December at a rate of two hundred twenty-five dollars ($225.00)
for 2025. This subscription will include the provision by the contractor of a
ninety-five (95) gallons yard waste container. Alternatively, residents may
purchase yard wastes tickers from the city at the rate of three dollars and
thirty-eight cents ($3.38) a bundle for 2025.
      4.   Bulk Item Charges: Residents may dispose of one (1) bulk item per
week without additional charge. Any additional bulk item each week will require
five (5) refuse stickers per bulk item.
      5.   After residents receive their initial refuse and recyclable carts,
they will be charged a fee of sixty dollars ($60.00) to change from a thirty-
five (35) gallon tote to a ninety-five (95) gallon tote or vice verse. New
residents will be able to change one (1) time when they first activate their
service at no charge from a thirty-five (35) gallon refuse container to a
ninety-five (95) gallon refuse container. However, new residents changing from
a ninety-five (95) gallon tote to a thrity- five (35) gallon tote will be
charged twenty- five dollars ($25.00).
      6.   On January 1, 2026, and each successive January 1st thereafter until
December 31, 2034, all rates will increase by a percentage equal to the
percentage increase over the prior twelve (12) month period of November to
October reflected by the consumer price index - All urban consumers, garbage
and trash collection services, CUSR0000SEHG02 (“CPI”). In no event will the new
rate be less than the rate then currently in effect. Rates may also be adjusted
in the event of regulatory changes or changes in law, regulation or taxation,
but only in manner consistent with the city’s agreement with the contractor.
   C.   Payment Of Bills: All residential unit customers shall be responsible
for paying the service charges to the city, which shall be billed along with
the water and sewer fees on a quarterly basis.
   D.   Delinquencies: Bills shall be deemed delinquent if not paid at the end
of the month in which it was billed, and an additional ten percent (10%) shall
be added to such delinquent balance.
   E.   Collection Of Late Fees; Termination: If, after written notice from the
city that a charge is delinquent, a user fails to make payment of such charge
and delinquency charge within thirty (30) days thereafter, the city finance
director or designee may undertake such legal proceedings as are required to
enforce collection, in which event such user shall also reimburse the city for
all costs, sheriff fees, attorney fees and other expenses as are incurred to
enforce collection as aforesaid. In addition, after the bill has been past due
for forty-five (45) days, the city reserves the right to terminate the
customer’s monthly tote service until full payment is made. (Ord. 25-O-02, 2-4-
2025)
3.8.4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The city manager or his authorized agent shall be charged with the
enforcement of this chapter and shall make any inspection necessary to that
end.
   B.   To the extent the city manager determines that additional regulations
related to management of the city’s household waste, yard waste and/or
recycling program are necessary for the efficient and effective removal of the
same, the city manager is authorized to promulgate additional rules and
regulations for that purpose. (Ord. 03-O-82, 11-18-2003; amd. Ord. 14-O-44, 7-
15-2014; Ord. 21-O-47, 9-7-2021; Ord. 25-O-02, 2-4-2025)
CHAPTER 9
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
3.9.1: Definition
3.9.2: License Required; Fees
3.9.1: DEFINITION:
The term "electrical contractor" means any person engaged in the business of
installing or altering, by contract, electrical equipment for the utilization
of electricity supplied for light, heat or power, not including apparatus,
conductors, or other equipment installed for or by public utilities, including
common carriers which are under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Commerce
Commission for use in their operation as public utilities; but the term
"electrical contractor" does not include employees employed by any person, firm
or corporation to do or supervise such work. (1963 Code, §37.11; amd. Ord. 865,
3-3-1970; 1986 Code)
3.9.2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of installing electric conductors to be used for light, heat or power,
or to engage in the business as an electrical contractor before complying with
the rules and regulations as herein set forth; provided, however, that if such
person is registered in another city or village as an electrical contractor and
has paid the registration fee as required by law to such city or village
located within the State of Illinois, then such electrical contractor shall not
be required to register or pay a registration fee for the period covered by his
certificate, to the City.
   B.   Application: Except as provided for in subsection A of this section,
any person engaging in the business of an electrical contractor must first take
and pass the electrical contractor's license/registration exam prepared by the
Woodstock Electrical Commission. The exam fee is one hundred dollars ($100.00)
and must be paid prior to taking the exam. A non-refundable deposit of fifty
dollars ($50.00) toward the cost of the exam fee shall be paid to the City in
order to reserve a space for an exam date. If the applicant is successful in
passing the exam, the exam fee shall be applied to the electrical contractor's
annual registration fee. All passing grades must be approved by the City of
Woodstock electrical inspector before an application for electrical
contractor's license/registration can be submitted. Upon passing said
examination, a written application for an electrical contractor's license must
be filled out and submitted to the Building and Zoning Department, and upon
approval of said application, the certificate of license/registration shall be
issued.
   C.   Annual Fee: An electrical contractor licensed by the City shall pay a
seventy five dollar ($75.00) annual registration fee. The registration shall
expire on December 31 of the year in which it has been issued. (1963 Code,
§37.11; amd. Ord. 865, 3-3-1970; 1986 Code; Ord. 16-O-20, 4-5-2016; Ord. 17-O-
64, 7-18-2017)
CHAPTER 10
VEHICLE STICKER
(Rep. by Ord. 98-0-32, 6-16-1998)
CHAPTER 11
COORDINATION OF CHARTERED TRANSPORTATION DROP-OFFS
SECTION:
3.11.1: Applicability
3.11.2: Requirement To Coordinate Drop-Offs With The City
3.11.3: Penalty
3.11.1: APPLICABILI TY:
This article applies to all persons engaged in the operation of commercial
motor vehicles, which involve the disembarking of ten (10) or more passengers
in the City, other than on a predictable and recurring basis, that do not
follow a schedule that is published in advance and available to the public, or
do not provide service open to the public in exchange for paying a fare. This
article does not apply to school bus service or other bus services providing
local services to educational institutions, nor shall it apply to the
disembarking of passengers arriving in the City for purposes of participating
in a City-sponsored event, a commercial undertaking at a City business or
businesses, or a private event sponsored by an individual or individuals such
as a wedding or party for which transportation has been arranged. The intent of
this Chapter is to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the City and its
residents, by ensuring that when large numbers of individuals are dropped off
in the City without housing or other resources, that the resources necessary to
address such populations are in place, and that the City has ensured these
services are adequate to respond to an influx of a population in need of
housing or other services.
For purposes of this Section, “Commercial motor vehicle” means any self-
propelled or towed vehicle used on public highways in interstate and intrastate
commerce to transport ten (10) or more passengers, including the driver. (Ord.
24-O-01, 1-2-2024)
3.11.2: REQUIREMENT TO COORDINATE DROP-OFFS WITH THE CITY.
   A.   Application to Coordinate Drop-off Required. The owner, operator, or
driver of any motor vehicle to which this article applies who proposes to allow
ten (10) or more passengers to disembark at one time in the City shall file an
application with the City’s Office of Building and Zoning. The completed
application shall contain all required information set forth in paragraph (b)
and shall be submitted at least five (5) calendar days prior to the date of the
proposed disembarking date.
   B.   Information Required in Application to Coordinate Drop-Off The Director
of Building and Zoning shall prepare an application form which shall, at a
minimum, require an applicant to provide the following information:
      1.   The full name, full address, and telephone numbers of the owner,
operator, and driver of the motor vehicle. The mobile phone number of the
driver of the vehicle shall also be provided.
      2.   The full name, full address, mobile and land-line telephone numbers
of the entity or individuals that have either directed, paid for, or financed
the transport of persons who will disembark in the City.
      3.   The name, address, or location in the City at which the applicant
proposes to allow passengers to disembark.
      4.   The date and time at which the applicant’s passengers will disembark
in the City which shall be from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on a Monday through
Friday, excluding any federal, state, or city holidays.
      5.   The name and address of all locations from which all the passengers
are being picked- up for transport to the City.
      6.   A detailed plan identifying how the arriving passengers will be
cared for, housed, and fed, either temporarily or permanently, upon
disembarking in the City. In addition, a list of each person (along with their
full name, address and mobile telephone number) who will be responsible for the
care, housing and feeding of the passengers.
   C.   Review of Application to Coordinate Drop-Off.
      1.   Subject to the provisions of subsection C.2., below, upon receipt of
an application pursuant to this Chapter, the Director of Building and Zoning
shall review same and undertake a review of the information contained in the
application to verify its truth and authenticity. If the application is not
complete, the Director of Building and Zoning shall, in writing, advise the
applicant of the additional items needed to complete the application. Within
four (4) calendar days after receiving a completed application, the Director of
Building and Zoning shall inform the applicant that the application is approved
for the stated location, date and time, unless the Director of Building and
Zoning has received bona fide information that the application contains
materially false information or unless the Director of Building and Zoning
proposes an alternative date, time, or location pursuant to subsection C.2,
below.
      2.   The Director of Building and Zoning may propose an alternative date
and time if the Director finds that the interests of the health, safety and
welfare of the City may be compromised by the originally proposed location,
date and time, provided that such alternative location, date and time shall not
be more than 24 hours before or after the proposed date and time. The Director
of Building and Zoning may also propose as an alternative location for any
drop-off, the City’s train station to ensure that any individuals dropped off
by the bus have ready access to alternative means of transportation. Any
applicant who does not accept a proposed alternative date, time or location may
appeal the decision to the City Council.
      3.   The Director of Building and Zoning is authorized to deny an
application if, in his opinion, a satisfactory plan has not been presented
related to the ability of the applicant to care for, house, and feed such
individuals.
      4.   Upon approval of an application, the Director of Building and Zoning
shall provide the applicant, or a person designated thereby, with a telephone
number to coordinate the arrival of the motor vehicle in the City.
      5.   If the Director of Building and Zoning denies an application made
under this Chapter, the Director shall reduce their findings to writing and
transmit the same to the applicant within five (5) calendar days. The applicant
may submit a new application or may appeal the decision to the City Council.
      6.   Disqualification. The Director of Building and Zoning shall not
approve an application from any person who has supplied materially false or
misleading information in connection with an application made under this
article. (Ord. 24-O-01, 1-2-2024)
3.11.3 PENALTY:
Violations of this Chapter shall be subject to a general fine of $10,000.00
plus an additional fine of $750.00 per passenger. In addition, any person or
entity found to be in violation shall be responsible for the City’s cost of
prosecution, including reasonable attorney’s fees. (Ord. 24-O-01, 1-2-2024)
CHAPTER 12
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
SECTION:
3.12.1: Registration Required
3.12.2: Duty Of The City Manager
3.12.3: Applications
3.12.4: Registration Term; Expiration; Renewal
3.12.5: Registration Fees
3.12.1: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
No person, firm, or corporation shall conduct any business activity, or
maintain an establishment without first having obtained an approved annual
registration for such business activity or establishment. The following parties
must register:
   A.   All businesses or commercial establishments for the purpose of
conducting business, commercial activity, or any other activity within the City
of Woodstock shall be subject to registration.
   B.   All home occupations, as defined by section 7B.3.3 of the City of
Woodstock Unified Development Ordinance shall be subject to this registration.
   C.   All other non-residential spaces where business activity is conducted
shall be subject to this registration.
   D.   No registration shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no
registration shall be issued for any purpose or activity if the premises and
building to be used for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable
ordinances and regulations of the City and the State of Illinois.
   E.   A contractor may use one registration to conduct business at multiple
locations in the City. A contractor is any person engaged in the business or
activity of constructing, altering, or repairing buildings or other structures,
sidewalks or street pavement. (Ord. 24-O-05, 2-6-2024)
3.12.2: DUTY OF THE CITY MANAGER:
Requirements for a business registration program shall be established by the
City Manager, in compliance with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 24-O-05,
2-6-2024)
3.12.3: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all registrations and permits shall be made to the City
Manager or other duly authorized representative in writing on a form or in the
manner provided by the City for that purpose. Each application also shall
contain:
   A.   The location or proposed location of the place of business, occupation,
or activity;
   B.   The name, residential address, and residential telephone number of each
partner, principal, or member thereof;
   C.   The number of the certificate of registration required under the
Retailer’s Occupation Tax Act, Service Occupation Tax Act, and/or Use Tax Act,
if applicable; and
   D.   Such additional information as may be needed for the proper guidance of
municipal officials in the evaluation of such application, including, but not
limited to, proof of any insurance policy or bond required by this chapter or
any other ordinance of the City. (Ord. 24-O-05, 2-6-2024)
3.12.4: REGISTRATION TERM; EXPIRATION; RENEWAL:
   A.   All annual registrations shall be operative and the registration year
for the City shall commence on the 1st day of May of each year. No registration
shall be granted for a period longer than one year. Except where otherwise
provided in this chapter, every registration shall expire on the 30th day of
April following the date of issuance.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each registration may be
renewed upon proper application and payment of the required fee. The
requirements and procedures for granting and issuing a registration renewal
shall be the same as the requirements and procedures for granting a new
registration. (Ord. 24-O-05, 2-6-2024)
3.12.5: REGISTRATION FEES:
   A.   Fee schedule. All parties required by this Chapter to register with the
City shall be subject to the following fees:
      1.   Initial registration: $0 annual (per calendar year).
      2.   Renewal of current, active registration: $0 annual.
   B.   Late fee. All parties required by this Chapter to register which fail
to renew a current, active registration with the City before May 1st of each
calendar year, or within the three-month period of time extended for new
businesses, shall be subject to a late fee of $50. (Ord. 24-O-05, 2-6-2024)
CHAPTER 13
ADULT BUSINESS LICENSES
SECTION:
3.13.1: Definitions
3.13.2: License
3.13.3: Application For License
3.13.4: Standards For Issuance Of License
3.13.5: Fees
3.13.6: Display Of License
3.13.7: Renewal Of License
3.13.8: Revocation Of License
3.13.9: Employees
3.13.10: Physical Layout Of Adult Business
3.13.11: Responsibilities Of The Operator
3.13.12: Exclusions
3.13.13: Penalties And Prosecution
3.13.14: Enforcement
3.13.1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
   ADULT BUSINESS: Any establishment in which twenty five percent (25%) or more
of its stock in trade or business activity in a use such as, but not limited
to, the following: adults only bookstores, adults only motion picture theaters,
adult entertainment centers, rap parlors, adults only nightclubs or adults only
saunas, where explicit sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual activity is
explicitly or implicitly encouraged or tolerated.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: Synonymous with "adult business" as defined
herein.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER: An enclosed building or part of an enclosed
building, which contains one or more coin operated mechanisms which when
activated permit a customer to view a live person nude or in such attire,
costume or clothing as to expose to view the human male or female genitalia;
pubic hair; buttocks; perineum; anal or pubic regions; or, female breast, at or
below the areola thereof. In addition, the viewing of a live person, in the
above described manner, after paying of any admission or fee for the viewing of
same activity.
   ADULTS ONLY: Any items or activities emphasizing, depicting, describing or
relating to nudity, explicit sexual conduct (whether autoerotic, heterosexual,
homosexual or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity.
   ADULTS ONLY BOOKSTORE: A bookstore or video store in which twenty five
percent (25%) or more of its stock in trade, books, magazines and films for
sale, exhibition or viewing on premises are sexually explicit material which
are distinguished or characterized by their principal emphasis on matters
depicting, describing or relating to nudity, explicit sexual conduct (whether
autoerotic, heterosexual, homosexual or otherwise), bestiality or
sadomasochistic activity.
   ADULTS ONLY MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building used regularly and
routinely for presenting adults only material distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to nudity, explicit
sexual conduct (whether autoerotic, heterosexual, homosexual or otherwise),
bestiality or sadomasochistic activity, for observation by patrons therein.
   BOOTH: Any enclosure that is specifically offered to patrons of an adult
business for the private viewing of any adults only item or movie. Said
definition does not include enclosures that are used as private offices by any
operator, employee or agent for attending to the tasks of their employment and
are not offered for use by the public.
   CUBICLE: Synonymous with "booth" as defined herein.
   DOOR: Full, complete, nontransparent closure device that obscures the view
or activity taking place within the enclosure.
   NIGHTCLUB: An establishment serving food and/or liquor and providing music
and space for dancing by patrons only. A nightclub shall not include an "adult
business".
   NIGHTCLUB, ADULTS ONLY: An establishment or place either occasionally or
primarily in the business of featuring topless dancers, go-go dancers, exotic
dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar entertainers, where
explicit sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or
implicitly encouraged or tolerated.
   NUDITY: The display of the human male or female genitalia; pubic hair;
buttocks; perineum; anal or pubic regions; female breast, at or below the
areola thereof, with no covering or with a less than fully opaque covering; or,
male genitalia, in a discernible turgid state, with or without covering.
   OBSCENE 1 : Any material or performance is obscene if: a) the average
person, applying contemporary adult community standards, would find that, taken
as a whole, it appeals to the prurient interest; and b) the average person,
applying contemporary adult community standards, would find that it depicts or
describes, in a patently offensive way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic
sexual acts, whether normal or perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation,
excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the genitals; and c) taken as a
whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   OPERATOR: For purposes of an "adult business" as defined herein, any person,
(whether said persons be an individual, partner, corporation, joint stock
company, fiduciary, officer, director, stockholder, employee, or manager) which
conducts, maintains or owns any adult business.
   PATRON: For purposes of an "adult business" as defined herein, any customer,
patron or visitor to an adult business who is not employed by any operator of
said establishment.
   RAP PARLOR: An establishment or place primarily in the business of providing
nonprofessional conversation or similar services for adults, where explicit
sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly
encouraged or tolerated.
   ROOM: Synonymous with "booth" as defined herein.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ACTIVITY: Flagellation or torture by or upon a nude person;
a person clad in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume. In addition, the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained with the
intent to stimulate or arouse sexually the initiator and/or the recipient.
   SAUNA, ADULTS ONLY: An establishment or place primarily in the business of
providing a steam bath and/or massage services, where explicit sexual conduct
is depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or
tolerated.
   SELL: Includes to solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for
sale and to keep with intent to sell.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT: Ultimate sex acts (whether autoerotic, heterosexual,
homosexual or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity. In addition,
physical contact, intended to stimulate or arouse sexually the initiator and/or
the recipient, with a person's unclothed genitalia, buttocks, perineum, anal or
pubic regions, or female breast.
   UNDERAGE 2 : Any person under eighteen (18) years of age, the legally
minimum age at which one can purchase or view adults only items.
   WALL SIGN: Any flat sign which is placed against a building or other
structure and attached thereto in such manner that only one side is visible.
(Ord. 98-0-16, 4-7-1998; amd. Ord. 07-0-94, 11-6-2007, eff. 1-1-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-20.
2 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-20.
3.13.2: LICENSE:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection D of this section, from and after
April 7, 1998, no adult business shall be operated or maintained in the city
without first obtaining a license to operate issued by the city.
   B.   A license may be issued only for one adult business located at a fixed
and certain place. Any person which desires to operate more than one adult
business must have a license for each.
   C.   No license or interest in a license may be transferred to any person.
   D.   All adult businesses existing at the time of the passage of this
chapter must submit an application for a license within ninety (90) days of the
passage of this chapter. If an application is not received within said ninety
(90) day period, then such existing adult business shall cease operations.
(Ord. 98-0-16, 4-7-1998)
3.13.3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Any person desiring to secure a license shall make application to the
city's director of community development. The application shall be filed in
triplicate with and dated by the director of community development. A copy of
the application shall be distributed promptly by the director of community
development to the police department.
   B.   The application for a license shall be upon a form provided by the
director of community development. An applicant for a license, which shall
include all partners or limited partners of a partnership applicant, and all
officers or directors of a corporate applicant and all stockholders holding
more than five percent (5%) of the stock of a corporate applicant or any other
person who is interested directly in the ownership or operation of the
business, shall furnish the following information under oath:
      1.   Name and address, including all aliases.
      2.   Written proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years of
age.
      3.   All residential addresses of the applicant for the past ten (10)
years.
      4.   The applicant's height, weight, color of eyes and hair.
      5.   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for ten (10)
years immediately preceding the date of application.
      6.   Whether the applicant previously operated in this or any other
county, city or state under an adult business license or similar business
license; whether the applicant has ever had such a license revoked or
suspended, the reason therefor, and the business entity or trade name under
which the applicant operated that was subject to the suspension or revocation.
      7.   All criminal statutes, whether federal or state, or city ordinance
violation convictions, forfeiture of bond and pleadings of nolo contendere on
all charges, except minor traffic violations.
      8.   Fingerprints and two (2) portrait photographs at least two inches by
two inches (2" x 2") of the applicant.
      9.   The address of the adult business establishment to be operated by
the applicant.
      10.   If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall specify
the name of the corporation, the date and state of incorporation, the name and
address of the registered agent.
   C.   Within twenty one (21) days of receiving an application for a license
the director of community development shall notify the applicant whether the
application is granted or denied.
   D.   Whenever an application is denied, the director of community
development shall advise the applicant in writing of the reasons for such
action. If the applicant requests a hearing within ten (10) days of receipt of
notification of denial, a public hearing shall be held within ten (10) days
thereafter before the council, as hereinafter provided.
   E.   Failure or refusal of the applicant to give any information relevant to
the investigation of the application or his or her refusal or failure to appear
at any reasonable time and place for examination under oath regarding said
application or his or her refusal to submit to or cooperate with any
investigation required by this chapter, shall constitute an admission by the
applicant that he or she is ineligible for such license and shall be grounds
for denial thereof by the director of community development. (Ord. 98-0-16, 4-
7-1998)
3.13.4: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   To receive a license to operate an adult business, an applicant must
meet the following standards:
      1.   If the applicant is an individual:
         a.   The applicant shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
         b.   The applicant shall not have been convicted of, pleaded no
contest or stipulated to the facts involving a felony or any crime involving
moral turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature in
any jurisdiction within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the
application.
         c.   The applicant shall not have been found to have previously
violated this Chapter within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of
the application.
      2.   If the applicant is a corporation:
         a.   All officers, directors and stockholders required to be named
under subsection
3.13.3B10 of this Chapter shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
         b.   No officer, director or stockholder required to be named under
subsection
3.13.3B10 of this Chapter shall have been convicted of, pleaded no contest or
stipulated to the facts involving a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature in any
jurisdiction within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the
application.
         c.   No officer, director or stockholder required to be named under
subsection
3.13.3B10 of this Chapter shall have been found to have previously violated
this Chapter within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the
application.
      3.   If the applicant is a partnership, joint venture or any other type
of organization where two (2) or more persons have a financial interest:
         a.   All persons having a financial interest in the partnership, joint
venture or other type of organization shall be at least eighteen (18) years of
age.
         b.   No persons having a financial interest in the partnership, joint
venture or other type of organization shall have been convicted of, pleaded no
contest or stipulated to the facts involving a felony or any crime involving
moral turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature in
any jurisdiction within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the
application.
         c.   No person having a financial interest in the partnership, joint
venture or other type of organization shall have been found to have violated
any provision of this Chapter within five (5) years immediately preceding the
date of the application.
   B.   No license shall be issued unless the Police Department has
investigated the applicant's qualifications to be licensed. The results of that
investigation shall be filed in writing with the Director of Community
Development no later than fourteen (14) days after the date of the application.
(Ord. 98-0-16, 4-7-1998)
3.13.5: FEES:
A license fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be submitted with
the application for a license. If the application is denied, one-half (1/2) of
the fee shall be returned. License fees paid less than twelve (12) months prior
to renewal shall not be prorated. (Ord. 98-0-16, 4-7-1998)
3.13.6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
The license shall be displayed in a conspicuous public place in the adult
business such that it may be readily seen by a person entering the premises.
(Ord. 98-0-16, 4-7-1998)
3.13.7: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Every license issued pursuant to this Chapter will terminate on April
30 of each year unless sooner revoked, and must be renewed before operation is
allowed in the following year. Any operator desiring to renew a license shall
make application to the Director of Community Development. The application for
renewal must be filed no later than sixty (60) days before the license expires.
The application for renewal shall be filed in triplicate with and dated by the
Director of Community Development. A copy of the application for renewal shall
be distributed promptly by the Director of Community Development to the Police
Department and to the operator. The application for renewal shall be upon a
form provided by the Director of Community Development and shall contain such
information and data, given under oath or affirmation, as is required for an
application for a new license.
   B.   A license renewal fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be
submitted with the application for renewal. In addition to the renewal fee, a
late penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be assessed against the
applicant who files for a renewal less than sixty (60) days before the license
expires. If the application is denied, one-half (1/2) of the total fees
collected shall be returned.
   C.   If the Police Department is aware of any information bearing on the
operator's qualifications, that information shall be filed in writing with the
Director of Community Development. (Ord. 98-0-16, 4-7-1998)
3.13.8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The City Council shall revoke a license for any of the following
reasons:
      1.   Discovery that false or misleading information or data was given on
any application or material facts were omitted from any application.
      2.   The operator or any employee of the operator, violates any provision
of this Chapter or any rule or regulation adopted by the City Council pursuant
to this Chapter; provided, however, that in the case of a first offense by an
operator where the conduct was solely that of an employee, the penalty shall
not exceed a suspension of thirty (30) days if the Council shall find that the
operator had no actual or constructive knowledge of such violation and could
not by the exercise of due diligence have had such actual or constructive
knowledge.
      3.   The operator becomes ineligible to obtain a license.
      4.   Any cost or fee required to be paid by this Chapter is not paid.
      5.   Any alcoholic liquor is served or consumed on the premises of the
adult business.
      6.   Violation of any City ordinance, code or regulation and failure to
pay the required fine or penalty or failure to cure the violations.
      7.   The transfer of a license or any interest in a license.
   B.   The City Council, before revoking or suspending any license, shall give
the operator at least ten (10) days' written notice of the charges against him,
and the opportunity for a public hearing before the City Council.
   C.   Any operator whose license is revoked shall not be eligible to receive
a license for one year from the date of revocation. No location or premises for
which a license has been issued shall be used as an adult business for six (6)
months from the date of revocation of the license. (Ord. 98-0-16, 4-7-1998)
3.13.9: EMPLOYEES:
It shall be unlawful for any adult business licensee or his manager or employee
to employ in any capacity within the adult business any person who is not at
least eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 98-0-16, 4-7-1998)
3.13.10: PHYSICAL LAYOUT OF ADULT BUSINESS:
   A.   Any adult business having available for customers, patrons or members,
any booth, room or cubicle for the private viewing of any adult entertainment
must comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Access: Each booth, room or cubicle shall be totally accessible to
and from aisles and public areas of the adult business, and shall be
unobstructed by any door, lock or other control-type devices.
      2.   Construction: Every booth, room or cubicle shall meet the following
construction requirements:
         a.   Each booth, room or cubicle shall be separated from adjacent
booths, rooms and cubicles and any nonpublic areas by a wall.
         b.   Have at least one side totally open to a public lighted aisle so
that there is an unobstructed view at all times of anyone occupying same.
         c.   All walls shall be solid and without any openings, extended from
the floor to a height of not less than six feet (6') and be light colored,
nonabsorbent, smooth textured and easily cleanable.
         d.   The floor must be light colored, nonabsorbent, smooth textured
and easily cleanable.
         e.   The lighting level of each booth, room or cubicle, when not in
use shall be a minimum of ten (10) foot-candles at all times, as measured from
the floor.
      3.   Occupants: Only one individual shall occupy a booth, room or cubicle
at any time. No occupant of same shall engage in any type of sexual activity,
cause any bodily discharge or litter while in the booth. No individual shall
damage or deface any portion of the booth.
   B.   Any "adult business" as defined herein which features dancers or other
entertainers or forms of entertainment, must comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   All dancing or other entertainment shall occur on a platform
intended for that purpose which is raised at least two feet (2') from the level
of the floor.
      2.   No dancing or other entertainment shall occur closer than ten feet
(10') to any patron.
      3.   No dancer or other entertainer shall fondle or caress any patron and
no patron shall fondle or caress any dancer or other entertainer.
      4.   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity or tip to any
dancer or other entertainer and no dancer or other entertainer shall directly
or indirectly solicit any pay or gratuity or tip from any patron. (Ord. 98-0-
16, 4-7-1998)
3.13.11: RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OPERATOR:
   A.   The operator shall maintain a register of all employees, showing the
name and aliases used by the employee, home address, age, birth date, sex,
height, weight, color of hair and eyes, phone numbers, social security number,
date of employment and termination and duties of each employee. The above
information on each employee shall be maintained in the register on the
premises for a period of three (3) years following termination.
   B.   The operator shall make the register of employees available immediately
for inspection upon demand of a member of the Police Department at all
reasonable times.
   C.   Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator
if such act or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge or
approval of the operator, or as a result of the operator's negligent failure to
supervise the employee's conduct, and the operator shall be punishable for such
act or omission in the same manner as if the operator committed the act or
caused the omission.
   D.   Any act or omission of any employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator
for purposes of determining whether the operator's license shall be revoked,
suspended or renewed.
   E.   No employee of an adult business shall allow any minor to loiter around
or to frequent an adult business.
   F.   The operator shall maintain the premises in a clean and sanitary manner
at all times.
   G.   The operator shall maintain at least ten (10) foot-candles of light in
the public portions of the establishment, including aisles, at all times.
However, if a lesser level of illumination in the aisles shall be necessary to
enable a patron to view the adult entertainment in a booth, room or cubicle
adjoining an aisle, a lesser amount of illumination may be maintained in such
aisles, provided, however, at no time shall there be less than one foot-candle
of illumination in said aisles, as measured from the floor.
   H.   The operator shall ensure compliance of the establishment and its
patrons with the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 98-0-16, 4-7-1998)
3.13.12: EXCLUSIONS:
All private schools and public schools, as defined in the Illinois Compiled
Statutes, located within the City are exempt from obtaining a license hereunder
when instructing pupils in sex education as part of their curriculum. (Ord. 98-
0-16, 4-7-1998)
3.13.13: PENALTIES AND PROSECUTION:
   A.   Any person, partnership or corporation who is found to have violated
this Chapter shall be fined not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per offense plus costs of
prosecution incurred by the City including reasonable attorney fees and shall
result in the revocation of any license.
   B.   Each violation of this Chapter shall be considered a separate offense,
and any violation continuing more than one day shall be considered a separate
offense. (Ord. 98-0-16, 4-7-1998)
3.13.14: ENFORCEMENT:
The Police Department shall have the authority to enter any adult business at
all reasonable times to inspect the premises and enforce this Chapter. (Ord.
98-0-16, 4-7-1998)
CHAPTER 14
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT LICENSING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
3.14.1: Purpose
3.14.2: Licensing And Inspection Requirements
3.14.3: Fees
3.14.4: Penalty For Violation
3.14.1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to set forth licensing requirements and
procedures for bed and breakfast facilities intended to be established in the
city of Woodstock. (Ord. 04-0-105, 11-16-2004)
3.14.2: LICENSING AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A "bed and breakfast establishment", hereinafter referred to as a "B&B
establishment", shall not be operated or maintained in the city without first
obtaining approval from the director of community development or, where
applicable, obtaining a special use permit as required by the city of Woodstock
zoning ordinance and as issued by the city council. Once a B&B establishment is
approved administratively or through the special use permitting process, it
shall not begin operating without first obtaining and maintaining a valid
operating license, as required by this chapter.
   B.   Any person or persons wishing to secure an operating license for a B&B
establishment shall make application to the city's department of community
development on forms available from the department. Applications for such a
license shall be administered by the department of community development.
   C.   For the first year or portion thereof and the following two (2)
consecutive calendar years of operation, and for each additional three (3) year
time period thereafter, a license shall be issued or renewed pursuant to formal
review and approval by the director of community development and payment of a
nonrefundable license or renewal fee as set forth herein.
   D.   A B&B license shall not be transferable to another person, location, or
B&B establishment.
   E.   A B&B license shall not be issued or renewed until the B&B
establishment, building, and facilities have been inspected and approved by the
city to assure compliance with the standards set forth herein, as well as by
the McHenry County department of health and the Woodstock fire/rescue district
for compliance with applicable state and local regulations. Proof of successful
inspection as required by the above referenced bodies shall be submitted
concurrently with a license application.
   F.   A B&B license shall be conspicuously displayed within the B&B
establishment.
   G.   Each license issued for a B&B establishment shall expire on December 31
after the first calendar year or portion thereof and following two (2)
consecutive calendar years of operation. Said license may be renewed only by
making application as provided for in this chapter. Application for renewal
should be made at least thirty (30) days before the expiration date. License
applications and renewal applications shall be obtained from the department of
community development. (Ord. 04-0-105, 11-16-2004)
3.14.3: FEES:
The fee for a B&B establishment operating license or for the renewal of such a
license, as required by section
3.14.2 of this chapter, shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) and shall be
valid for the remainder of the calendar year in which it is issued and for the
following two (2) consecutive calendar years. (Ord. 04-0-105, 11-16-2004)
3.14.4: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating, disobeying, or
refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished
by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. In addition to this penalty,
a licensee violating any provision of this chapter or other applicable and
relevant regulations of the city of Woodstock may be subject to having their
license revoked, suspended or not renewed. (Ord. 04-0-105, 11-16-2004)
CHAPTER 15
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3.15.1: Definitions
3.15.2: Massage Establishment License Required
3.15.3: Application For Massage Establishment License
3.15.4: Limitation And Restriction On Issuance And Renewal Of License
3.15.5: Review By City Manager Of Denial Of Application For License
3.15.6: Suspension Or Revocation Of Massage Establishment License
3.15.7: Facility Requirements
3.15.8: Operating Requirements
3.15.9: Manager On Premises
3.15.10: Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
3.15.11: Hours Of Operation
3.15.12: Employment Of Massage Therapist
3.15.13: Display Of License
3.15.14: Inspection Of Massage Establishments
3.15.15: Name And Place Of Business
3.15.16: Transfer; Changes In Ownership Or Management
3.15.17: Exemptions
3.15.18: License Fee And Period Of License
3.15.19: Unlawful Acts
3.15.20: Public Nuisance
3.15.21: Requests For Variances
3.15.22: Violation And Penalty
3.15.1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
LICENSE: A massage establishment license as provided in this chapter.
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating of the external soft
tissues of the body with the hands or with aid of any mechanical, electrical
apparatus or appliances or by the application of air, liquid, or vapor baths of
any kind, with or without such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol,
liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions, ointments, or other
similar preparations used in this practice.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment that provides or purports to provide
massage therapy and employs or purports to provide at least one licensed
massage therapist. This shall include any establishment having a fixed place of
business where any person, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
engages in, carries on or permits to be engaged in or carried on any of the
activities mentioned in the definition of "massage," including but not limited
to what are commonly known and referred to as "spas," "suntan spas," "parlors,"
"bathhouses" and "massage parlors." A massage business shall not include any
accredited educational facility that teaches massage therapy or massage
techniques, nor shall it include any licensed health-care facilities, or
establishment of duly licensed doctors. A massage establishment may employ only
persons who have a state license issued by the Illinois Department of
Professional Regulation pursuant to the Illinois Massage Licensing Act, 225
ILCS 57/1 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time, to engage in the
practice of massage. An establishment whose primary business is a beauty salon,
barber shop, or similar that offers massage limited to the head, neck,
shoulders, hands, feet, and legs below the knee, which does not require the
clients to disrobe, is not considered a massage establishment.
MASSAGE THERAPIST: Any person licensed by the Illinois department of financial
and professional regulation who, for consideration or gratuity whatsoever,
engages in the practice of massage as defined herein.
PATRON: An individual who receives a massage under such circumstances that it
is reasonably expected that he or she will pay money or give any other
consideration therefor.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, association, joint-stock company, limited-
liability company, corporation, or combination of individuals of any form,
kind, or character whatsoever.
SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA: The genitals, pubic area, anus or perineum of any
person; or the vulva or breasts of any female.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.2: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE REQUIRED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, carry on, or
permit to be engaged in, conducted, or carried on, in or upon any premises in
the city, the business of operating a massage establishment without having
first obtained a valid and current license therefor issued by the city pursuant
to the terms of this chapter. A separate license shall be required for each
massage establishment location, regardless of whether multiple establishments
are operated by the same person.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.3: APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE:
   A.   An application for a massage establishment license as required in
section
3.15.2 hereof shall be filed with the manager or his/her designated
representative. The application shall be made in writing (or through the city's
web portal) upon a form provided by the manager or his/her designated
representative and shall be completed in full and signed by the applicant, if
an individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if not an individual.
Before any license may be issued, the applicant must verify by oath or
affidavit that all of the information in the application is complete, true, and
correct. The application shall include but shall not be limited to the
following:
      1.   The name and type of ownership of the business, i.e., whether
individual, partnership, limited-liability company, corporation, or otherwise.
      2.   The name under which the business is to be conducted, including any
trade name(s) or assumed business name(s).
      3.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license, as well as all telephone numbers
where the business is to be operated.
         a.   If a leased premise, a copy of the lease shall be provided. No
license may be issued under this chapter for any term that exceeds the term of
the lease.
         b.   The name and address of the owner(s) of the premises, and, if
said premises are held in trust, the names and addresses of all the owners of
the beneficial interest of a trust.
         c.   Whether any other activities or business will be conducted at the
same location and the physical facilities to be used.
      4.   In the case of an individual, the full name, residence address with
zip code, date of birth, gender, and a physical description of the applicant,
including height, weight, color of hair and eyes.
      5.   In the case of a partnership, the full name, residence address with
zip code, date of birth, gender and a physical description, including height,
weight, color of hair and eyes, of all partners (whether general or limited)
and any other persons entitled to share in the profits thereof.
      6.   In the case of a limited-liability company or corporation, the
purpose for which said limited-liability company or corporation is organized,
the full name, residence address with zip code, gender, date of birth and a
physical description, including height, weight, color of hair and eyes, of all
members and managers of the limited-liability company, the directors and
officers of the corporation.
      7.   The date of formation of the partnership or limited-liability
company, if a partnership or limited-liability company, the date of
incorporation, if an Illinois corporation, or the date of becoming qualified
under the Illinois Business Corporation Act, 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq., to
transact business in Illinois, if a foreign corporation.
      8.   A copy of the state-issued ID of all licensed massage therapists
engaged in massage at the massage establishment, as well as current copies of
the licenses of all licensed massage therapists.
      9.   A complete list of the full name, residence address with zip code,
date of birth, gender and a physical description of the managers, assistant
managers, or other persons principally in charge of the operation of the
massage establishment, including height, weight, color of hair and eyes of each
of them.
      10.   The business, occupation, or employment of the applicant, if an
individual, for three years preceding the date of application.
      11.   Whether applicant or its duly authorized agent, if not an
individual, ever made an application for a license under this chapter, or a
massage business license or similar license to a state or county, city or other
unit of local government and was denied or not granted such license, and if so,
where and when, and the reasons for the denial or why such license was not
granted.
      12.   Whether a license issued to the applicant or its duly authorized
agent, if not an individual, under this chapter, or a massage business license
or similar license issued by any state or county, city or other unit of local
government, has ever been suspended or revoked and the reasons for the
suspension and/or revocation.
      13.   Whether the applicant or its duly authorized agent, if not an
individual, has ever pled guilty or been found guilty of a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter or any ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality or unit of government or of any other domestic or foreign
jurisdiction which regulates massage establishments or the providing of
massages, or any Illinois statute regulating massage establishments or massage
therapy.
      14.   A complete statement of all instances in which the applicant has
pled guilty or has been found guilty under the laws of any state or under the
laws of the United States or of any other domestic or foreign jurisdiction. If
the applicant is a limited-liability company or corporation, the statement
shall include the applicant's duly authorized agent and all of the applicant's
members, managers, officers, and directors, and all persons acting as managers
or assistant managers or other persons principally in charge of the operation
of the massage establishment. If the applicant is a partnership, such statement
shall include all general partners and any limited partners. Such listing shall
include the following:
         a.   Any offense involving sexual misconduct with children or other
sex offenses as defined in 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
         b.   Any felony based upon conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity.
         c.   Any felony unrelated to conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity, but which felony involved the
use of a deadly weapon, traffic in narcotic drugs or controlled substances, or
violence against another person, including rape or other sexual misconduct.
         d.   Any misdemeanor or licensing ordinance violation, based upon
conduct or involvement in such related business activity or similar business
activity.
   B.   Except in the case of an application for a renewal of a license, and
fingerprints are already on file for all persons who are required to provide a
complete set of fingerprints, the applicant shall submit a complete set of
fingerprints with the application. If the applicant is a corporation,
partnership, or limited-liability company, fingerprints must be submitted for
all persons acting as managers or assistant managers, or other persons
principally in charge of the operation of the massage establishment. The
owners, partners, and principal managers of any other legal entity entitled to
do business in the state shall also be fingerprinted. The city may, in its sole
discretion, either require the applicant to have his/her fingerprints taken and
submitted for processing by the Illinois state police and direct that the
results be sent directly to the city, c/o the chief of police, or the city may
require that all such fingerprinting shall be done by the city police
department. If the city does the fingerprinting, then the fingerprints shall be
submitted to the appropriate state and/or federal agencies for processing as
available. The cost of fingerprinting shall be paid by the applicant in
addition to any application or license fee.
   C.   The applicant shall submit a written authorization for the city, its
agents, and employees to seek information and conduct an investigation into the
truth of the statements set forth in the application and the qualifications of
the applicant for a license.
   D.   The applicant shall submit a copy of identification, which shall
include but shall not be limited to a driver's license, if any, and two (2)
copies of a current portrait photograph of the applicant at least two inches by
two (2 x 2) inches. The portrait shall include the head and shoulder area with
the face forward pose. A new and current portrait shall be required with each
renewal application. If the applicant is a corporation, partnership, or
limited-liability company, the identification and the portrait must be
submitted for each person acting as a manager or assistant manager, or other
person principally in charge of the operation of the massage establishment. The
city, in its sole discretion, may require that any portrait photograph required
by these provisions be taken by the city police department.
   E.   The applicant shall submit proof of professional and/or general
liability insurance in the minimum amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000)
per occurrence.
   F.   The applicant shall submit a current copy of any draping protocols,
sexual conduct policies, or other similar policies and procedures for the
proposed massage establishment.
   G.   The applicant shall submit such other information, documentation, and
identification of the applicant as the manager or his/her designated
representative and/or the chief of police shall deem necessary to determine the
identity of the applicant or to process the application.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.4: LIMITATION AND RESTRICTION ON ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Upon receipt of a properly completed application, including payment in
full of all fees in connection therewith for a massage establishment license,
the manager or his/her designated representative shall submit the completed
application to the chief of police or his/her designated representative for
evaluation. Upon receiving the application for a massage establishment license,
the chief of police, or his/her designated representative, shall conduct an
investigation.
   B.   The manager or his/her designated representative shall request that the
premises be inspected by or on behalf of the fire rescue department, the city's
building and planning department, the appropriate health inspector and any
other applicable department or inspector to assure that the proposed operation
complies with all applicable laws, including building, electrical, plumbing,
health, housing, zoning, and fire codes of the city and any other regulations
of the city relating to the public health, safety and welfare. The appropriate
departments and/or inspectors shall inspect the premises proposed to be
operated as a massage establishment, make an investigation of the application,
and make written recommendations to the manager or his/her designated
representative concerning compliance with city codes and federal or state laws.
The chief of police or his/her designated representative shall promptly deliver
to the manager or his/her designated representative all of the written
recommendations along with his/her written recommendation with respect to
whether the application for a license should be approved, denied, or held for
further review.
   C.   Within forty-five (45) days of the date that a fully completed
application, including payment of all fees therefor, is filed, the manager or
his/her designated representative shall issue a license if he or she has
received a recommendation of approval from the chief of police and provided
that all of the requirements of this chapter have been satisfied, or the
manager or his/her designated representative shall notify the applicant in
writing that the application has been denied or is held for further review. The
period of such additional review shall not exceed an additional thirty (30)
days unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. Upon the conclusion of such
additional review, and after receiving the above described written
recommendations from the chief of police or his/her designated representative,
the manager or his/her designated representative shall advise the applicant in
writing whether the application is granted or denied consistent with the
recommendation of the chief of police or his/her designated representative. The
license shall be denied if the applicant fails to comply with the requirements
of this chapter or with the requirements of any other provision of this city
code which applies to the business and/or activities of the applicant.
   D.   Issuance Or Renewal:
      1.   No massage establishment license shall be issued to or renewed for:
         a.   An applicant where the applicant or its duly authorized agent, or
any of the applicant's members, managers, officers, directors, limited
partners, general partners, or any persons acting as managers or assistant
managers or other persons principally in charge of the operation of the massage
establishment has pled guilty to or has been found guilty of any one (1) or
more of the following offenses:
            (1)   Any offense involving sexual misconduct with children or
other sex offenses as defined in 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
            (2)   Any felony based upon conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity, within the past ten (10)
year's.
            (3)   Any felony unrelated to conduct or involvement in such
related business activity or similar business activity, but which felony
involved the use of a deadly weapon, traffic in narcotic drugs or controlled
substances, or violence against another person, including rape or other sexual
misconduct, within the past five (5) years.
            (4)   Any misdemeanor or licensing ordinance violation by any state
or other unit of local government based upon conduct or involvement in such
related business activity or similar business activity, within the past five
(5) years of the date of the application, including but not limited to the
denial, suspension or revocation of such a similar license by any state or
other unit of local government within five (5) years of the date of the
application.
            (5)   Any behavior comparable to items 1-4 above that took place in
a foreign jurisdiction.
         b.   An applicant whose license is issued under this chapter has been
revoked for cause or the applicant has been found guilty of any violation of
any provision of this chapter.
         c.   An applicant who at the time of application for renewal of any
license issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
         d.   An applicant under the age of eighteen (18) years of age.
         e.   An applicant who has failed to submit a complete application and
who has failed to cure the defect(s) within ten (10)days after written notice
of any such failure to cure, unless additional time is granted by the city
manager or his/her designee.
         f.   An applicant who has been convicted of any other criminal offense
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or moral turpitude within five (5) years
of the date of the application.
         g.   An applicant, if it is determined that the applicant's operations
include offering illicit sexual services under the guise of therapeutic
massage.
         h.   An applicant who has knowingly made or provided false,
misleading, or fraudulent statements or information to the city or has failed
to disclose information required in the license application.
      2.   In addition to the provisions in subsection D.1 above, no massage
establishment license shall be issued to or renewed for:
         a.   An applicant who is not an owner or a beneficial owner of the
business to be operated by the licensee.
         b.   A partnership, if any general partners thereof, or any limited
partner owning any interest in such partnership, has pled guilty to or has been
found guilty of any one (1) or more of the offenses listed in this chapter.
         c.   A corporation or limited-liability company, if any officer,
manager, or director of such limited liability company or corporation has pled
guilty to or has been found guilty of any one (1) or more of the offenses
listed in this chapter.
         d.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it
is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois Business
Corporation Act, 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq., to transact business in the state.
         e.   An applicant, if the premises in which the massage establishment
is to be operated shall not be in compliance with all applicable codes and
ordinances of the city, including, but not limited to, zoning, building, and
life safety codes.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.5: REVIEW BY CITY MANAGER OF DENIAL OF APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   The denial by the city manager or his/her designated representative to issue
a license pursuant to an application made therefor shall be subject to review
by the mayor or his/her designated representative, provided that a request for
such review is made in writing by the applicant to the mayor or his/her
designated representative within ten (10) days of the issuance of the written
denial of the application. The mayor or his/her designated representative shall
conduct a hearing to review the application submitted to the city by the
applicant, the report of the chief of police or his/her designated
representative, and/or any other reports of inspections made and of any other
relevant facts and evidence determined. The applicant may present any relevant
evidence in support of his/her request that the denial of the application be
reviewed and reversed. The mayor or his/her designated representative shall
determine whether the denial of the application shall be affirmed or whether
the denial shall be reversed and the application approved. If the mayor or his/
her designated representative reverses the decision and approves the
application, the license applied for shall be issued. The decision of the mayor
or his/her designated representative to affirm the denial of the application
shall be final and subject to judicial review only by a court of competent
jurisdiction to the extent otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.6: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE:
   A.   Any license issued for a massage establishment may be suspended for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days by the chief of police or his/her
designated representative upon written notice to the license holder, which
notice shall state a basis or charge as listed in subsection B below. The
notice shall be served by mailing a copy thereof by regular U.S. mail,
addressed to the licensee at the address of the licensed premises, and shall be
deemed served on the date of mailing (the "service date") and/or by delivering
a copy of the notice to the manager of the licensed premises or any other
employee on the licensed premises. The massage business shall not operate under
a suspended license. The license holder may request in writing a hearing before
the city manager or his/her designated representative within ten (10) days of
the service date. If a written request for a hearing is not made within ten
(10) days of the service date, the chief of police or his/her designated
representative may revoke any license permanently.
   B.   Reasons For Suspension Or Revocation.
      1.   The chief of police or his/her designated representative may suspend
or revoke a license if he/she determines that any one (1) or more of the
following have occurred:
         a.   A licensee has violated or is not in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
         b.   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution, as defined by the
Illinois criminal code, or allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral
copulation, masturbation, bestiality, prostitution, or flagellation to occur in
or on the licensed premises or otherwise has permitted the offering of illicit
sexual services under the guise of therapeutic massage If any employee has been
charged with prostitution or engaged in any of the other acts as listed above,
the licensee is assumed to be knowledgeable of the activity.
         c.   A licensee has knowingly conducted or allowed to be conducted
massage activities in the city during a period of time when the licensee's
license was suspended.
         d.   There is no licensed massage therapist employed by the licensee
or otherwise engaged or committed to provide massage services on the licensed
premises when the premises are open for business.
         e.   A licensee or its authorized agent knowingly advertises in any
manner for the providing of services within the massage establishment that are
unlawful.
         f.   Any employee of the licensee, including a licensed massage
therapist, is engaged in any conduct at licensee's place of business which
violates any of the provisions of this chapter, any unlawful acts as stated in
section 3.15.19, or any other ordinances of the city relating to the license,
the licensed premises, or any state law.
         g.   Where any applicant has committed any fraud, misrepresentation,
or made a false statement on an application for a license under this chapter.
         h.   In any case where the licensee refuses to permit any duly
authorized police officer or inspector of the city, the fire district, or any
health department with jurisdiction over the licensee or its operations to
inspect the premises or the operations therein.
         i.   The failure or refusal of the licensee to pay any fine, penalty,
or charge owed to the city.
         j.   In the event that the licensee would not now qualify for the
issuance of a license or the renewal thereof.
         k.   By the recommendations of any health officer that such business
is being managed, conducted, or maintained without regard for the public health
or health of patrons or due regard to proper sanitation or hygiene.
      2.   The licensee shall be deemed to have actual or constructive
knowledge of any violations herein above set forth if they occur on the
licensed premises by any person(s) acting as an agent or otherwise receiving
compensation. The licensee shall be permitted to present any relevant evidence
bearing on the alleged violations outlined in the notice.
   C.   Any decision of the chief of police or his/her designated
representative to suspend or revoke a license may be appealed to the mayor or
his/her designated representative by the licensee by a request in writing
therefor made to the mayor or his/her designated representative within ten (10)
days of the issuance by the mayor of any order of suspension. The mayor or his/
her designated representative shall review the record of the hearing held
before the city manager or his/her designated representative if any was held
or, if no hearing was held, the basis for such order of suspension, and based
upon such review shall make a decision to either affirm or reverse the decision
of the chief of police or his/her designated representative to suspend the
license. If the mayor or his/her designated representative decides to affirm
the decision to suspend the license, he or she may also modify the term of the
suspension, provided that in no event shall the suspension exceed thirty (30)
days. Any suspension or revocation ordered by the provisions hereof shall be
stayed until all administrative appeals made to officials of the city as
provided herein (and not including any appeal of a decision of a city official
made to any could of competent jurisdiction) have been concluded unless the
mayor or his/her designated representative concludes that the operation of the
premises presents an immediate threat to the health, safety and welfare of the
city and its residents. The decision of the mayor or his/her designated
representative to affirm or reverse a suspension shall be final and subject to
judicial review only by a court of competent jurisdiction to the extent
otherwise provided by law.
   D.   Any licensee whose license has been revoked is barred from applying for
a new license.
   E.   Any suspension or revocation of the license, if ordered, shall not
preclude prosecution and imposition of any other penalties provided for the
violation of other applicable provisions of this chapter or other ordinances of
the city.
   F.   Any suspension or revocation of the license, if ordered, shall not be
deemed to limit or otherwise restrict the operation of other activities of the
business being conducted within the licensed premises which are unrelated to
massage unless the mayor or his/her designated representative concludes that
such operation of other activities of the business presents an immediate threat
to the health, safety and welfare of the city and its residents.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.7: FACILITY REQUIREMENTS:
   No license to conduct a massage establishment shall be issued unless an
inspection by the city reveals that the establishment complies with each of the
following minimum requirements:
   A.   Rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths, and showers shall be made
waterproof with approved waterproofed materials and shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code and the city building code. Plumbing
fixtures shall be installed in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code and
city plumbing code. A utility sink or mop basin with a source of hot water must
be available within the immediate vicinity of dry and wet heat rooms to
facilitate cleaning.
   B.   Restrooms, including toilet facilities, shall be provided that meet all
of the current plumbing code requirements.
   C.   Dressing or locker facilities shall be provided for the patrons to be
served at any given time. In the event male and female patrons are to be served
simultaneously, segregated dressing, locker, and massage room facilities shall
be provided.
   D.   All equipment shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of
the current city codes.
   E.   The massage establishment premises shall be in compliance with all
applicable codes and ordinances of the city, including, but not limited to,
zoning, building, and life safety codes.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.8: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   B.   No residential furniture shall be used in the space, which includes
dressers, beds, sofas, etc., for habitation purposes.
   C.   Price rates for all massage services shall be prominently posted, and/
or pricing sheets shall be available for review to all prospective patrons at
the front desk and/or in the massage treatment areas. A placard must also be
posted and visible in the massage treatment area or a location available to all
prospective patrons advising: "No massage services other than those posted or
listed on a pricing sheet available for customer review shall be provided for
any compensation whatsoever. There shall be no bargaining or solicitation for
massage services between patrons, massage therapists, and/or employees."
   D.   All employees, including licensed massage therapists, shall be clean
and shall be fully covered by wearing clean, nontransparent outer garments,
completely covering the sexual and genital areas.
   E.   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity, which shall be laundered after each
use thereof and stored in a sanitary manner.
   F.   No massage establishment granted a license under the provisions of this
chapter shall place, publish or distribute or cause to be placed, published,
distributed any advertisement, picture, or statement which is known or through
the exercise of reasonable care should be known to be false, deceptive or
misleading in order to induce any person to purchase or utilize any massage
services.
   G.   Eating in the massage work areas shall not be permitted.
   H.   Animals, except seeing-eye dogs, shall not be permitted in the massage
work areas. The sexual or genital areas of patrons shall be completely covered
at all times when in the presence of an employee of the massage establishment
or any licensed massage therapist.
   I.   No licensed massage therapist or massage establishment employee or
agent shall administer a massage to any part of a patron's body which exhibits
a skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation or skin eruption, unless a
physician duly licensed in the state has certified, in writing, that such
patron may safely be massaged on that area and prescribing the conditions
thereof.
   J.   Each licensed massage therapist shall wash his or her hands in hot
running water with proper disinfectant before administering a massage to each
patron.
   K.   No massage establishment licensee under the provisions of this chapter
shall knowingly permit any person to remain in or upon the licensed premises
who commits any act of public indecency or obscenity as provided in this code
or as provided in the Illinois criminal code.
   L.   Oils, creams, lotions, or other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean, closed containers or cabinets and shall be
dispensed in unit doses so that bulk containers are not contaminated between
clients.
   M.   Each massage establishment shall operate in compliance with all
applicable local, state, and federal laws and regulations, including but not
limited to any such laws and regulations relating to discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin, gender, disability, or age.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.9: MANAGER ON PREMISES:
   At all times during the operation of a massage establishment, while massage
activities are taking place, there shall be present a manager, assistant
manager, or other persons principally in charge of the operations of the
licensee, and a licensed massage therapist, each of whom shall not be less than
eighteen (18) years of age. A licensed massage therapist may also serve as a
manager, assistant manager, or person principally in charge.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.10: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
   No person shall sell, give, dispense, provide or keep, or cause to be sold,
given, dispensed, provided or kept, any alcoholic beverage on the premises of
any massage establishment, and no massage establishment shall be located on any
premises for which a license to sell alcoholic liquor has been issued.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.11: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   No massage establishment shall be open for business or in operation between
the hours of nine o’clock (9:00) p.m. and seven o’clock (7:00) a.m., except to
complete massage services scheduled and initiated prior to eight thirty o’clock
(8:30) p.m.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.12: EMPLOYMENT OF MASSAGE THERAPIST:
   No person shall employ as a massage therapist any person unless said person
is a properly licensed massage therapist pursuant to Illinois law and the
Massage Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 57/1 et seq.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.13: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
   The massage business license and the massage therapy license of each and
every licensed massage therapist employed in the massage establishment shall be
displayed in an open and conspicuous place in the massage establishment or
available upon request.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.14: INSPECTION OF MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS:
   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed massage establishment are provided for or required by
this chapter or any ordinance of the city, or are reasonably necessary to
assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or regulation of the
city or any other applicable jurisdiction, or to detect violations thereof, it
shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the premises to
admit thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee
of the city or other applicable jurisdiction who is duly authorized to make
such inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is
requested. Each such inspection shall be made at reasonable times and in a
reasonable manner. It shall be unlawful for any licensee to fail to allow such
inspection officer(s) access to the premises or to hinder such officer(s) in
any manner.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.15: NAME AND PLACE OF BUSINESS:
   No person granted a license hereunder shall operate the massage
establishment under a name not specified in the license, nor shall the business
be conducted under any different designation or at any location not specified
in the massage establishment license.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.16: TRANSFER; CHANGES IN OWNERSHIP OR MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall apply only to the
specific licensee and location designated, and may not be sold, transferred, or
otherwise assigned. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the licensee remains the
same and a request is made to designate and substitute a different location,
the city manager or his/her designated representative may approve such new
location upon submission of proof that such location is in compliance with all
of the provisions of this chapter and receives zoning approval. A fee of twenty
dollars ($20) shall be required for processing a request to change the location
of the massage establishment.
   B.   A transfer in the ownership or control of a massage establishment shall
constitute a change in the licensee, and the existing license shall be deemed
surrendered and extinguished. A new application for license shall be filed and
processed as provided in this chapter prior to any new owner or controlling
party operating the premises for any of the purposes regulated by this chapter.
Any operations of the premises following transfer in the ownership or control
of a massage establishment in violation of this chapter shall constitute the
operation of an unlicensed massage establishment.
   C.   Notice shall be provided to the city prior to any change of the
designated manager conducting business for the massage establishment licensee.
The new manager must be qualified to operate the massage establishment as
provided in this chapter. The licensee shall, not less than ten (10) business
days before such change is to take effect, give the city manager or his/her
designated representative notice of such change. The notice shall include any
information concerning the new manager that is required in this chapter.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.17: EXEMPTIONS:
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply and no license shall be
required for any units of government, hospitals, nursing homes, and sanitariums
or for any individual while engaged in the personal performance of their
respective professions, provided such individual is holding an unrevoked
certificate to practice the healing arts under the laws of the state, including
but not limited to physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, physical
therapists, nurses, paramedics, state-registered athletic licensees who
administer athletic-related massages in the normal course of their duties as
such or to those working under the direction of any such individuals in any
such units of government, hospitals, nursing homes and sanitariums.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.18: LICENSE FEE AND PERIOD OF LICENSE:
   A.   The fee for the original application for a massage establishment shall
be fifty dollars ($50). There shall be no fee for each renewal application.
This amount shall be nonrefundable. All fees shall be paid at the time each
application is submitted to the city. No application shall be processed without
the payment in full of the applicable fees, even if the application is made for
a period of less than a full year.
   B.   Commencing with May 1, 2025, each license year shall commence on May
1st of each year and shall expire on April 30th of the following year unless an
application is submitted after May 1st for any year (but before April 30th in
the following year), in which case the license shall commence when issued but
shall expire on the 30th day of April following the date of issuance.
Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, no license may extend beyond
the term of an applicant's lease for the premises, in which case, fees shall
not be prorated.
   C.   An application for the renewal of a license shall be submitted not
later than forty-five (45) days prior to the expiration of the license.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.19: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any individual, in a massage establishment, to
knowingly place his or her hand or hands upon, to touch with any part of his or
her body, to fondle in any manner, or to massage a sexual or genital area or
part of any other person.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any individual, in a massage establishment, to
knowingly allow a patron of the massage establishment to place his or her hand
or hands upon, to touch with any pail of his or her body, to fondle in any
manner, or to massage a sexual or genital area or part of any licensed massage
therapist or any other employee of the massage establishment.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any individual, in a massage establishment, to
expose his or her sexual or genital area or part, or any portion thereof, to
any other individual.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any individual, while in the presence of any
other individual in a massage establishment, to fail to conceal, with a fully
opaque covering, the sexual or genital area or part of his or her body.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any agent, employee, or representative of a
massage establishment, while in the presence of a patron in the massage
establishment, to wear clothing that is not modest, professional, and
appropriate for street wear.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any individual owning, operating, or managing
a massage establishment to knowingly cause, allow or permit in or about such
massage establishment any agent, employee, or any other individual under his
control or supervision to perform any such acts deemed to be unlawful by the
other provisions of this section.
   G.   It shall be unlawful for any person who holds a license to operate a
massage establishment within the city to fail to comply with any of the
conditions and regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.20: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   Any location used as a massage establishment in violation of this chapter is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.21: LICENSE VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A massage establishment requesting a variance
from one (1) or more of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to
the chief of police as a part of the license application. The request shall
identify each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and
the reasons why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority For Granting Of Variance: The chief of police shall decide
whether a variance shall be authorized for each provision of this chapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis, and shall notify the
city manager or his designee, along with the applicant, of such a decision.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The chief of police may authorize
a variance only after analysis and investigation (if necessary) of the requests
and determination that granting of the variance(s) are necessary to prevent a
special hardship to the massage establishment and will not jeopardize the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the chief of police may require the massage
establishment requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and
conditions that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter, but
which carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   E.   Right To Appeal: Any massage establishment aggrieved by any denial of a
variance made by the chief of police under the provisions of this section shall
have the right to appeal such denial to the city mayor. The application for
appeal shall be submitted in writing to the city clerk within thirty (30) days
after the date of such order, requirement, decision, or determination. The
mayor shall commence its consideration of the appeal within fifteen (15) days
after the filing of the appeal. The mayor shall timely decide the appeal.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
3.15.22: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   Every person, except those persons who are specifically exempted by this
chapter, whether acting as an individual owner, employee of the owner, operator
or employee of the operator, or whether acting as a mere agent or independent
contractor for the owner, employee or operator, or acting as a participant or
worker in any way directly or indirectly who gives massages or operates a
massage establishment or provides any of the services defined in this chapter
without first obtaining a license and paying a fee to do so from the city or
who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon a finding of guilty, be
punished by a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250) and shall
not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750). A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or upon which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 25-O-27, 4-15-2025)
CHAPTER 16
ACCEPTANCE OF CREDIT CARDS
SECTION:
3.16.1: Credit Card Program Established
3.16.2: Authorized Credit Card Payments
3.16.3: Rules Governing Acceptance Of Credit Card Payments
3.16.1: CREDIT CARD PROGRAM ESTABLISHED:
Pursuant to the local governmental acceptance of credit cards act 1 , the city
of Woodstock hereby authorizes the city manager to enter into agreements with
one or more financial institutions or other service providers to facilitate the
acceptance and processing of credit card payments by the city. Said agreements
shall identify the specific services to be provided, an itemized list of the
fees charged and the means by which each such fee shall be paid. (Ord. 03-0-29,
4-15-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 345/1 et seq.
3.16.2: AUTHORIZED CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS:
Those items that may be paid by credit card shall be any authorized obligation,
fine, fee, charge, tax or cost imposed by the city including, but not limited
to, licenses and permits pursuant to this code, recreation fees, Woodstock
Opera House ticket charges and utility payments. (Ord. 03-0-29, 4-15-2003)
3.16.3: RULES GOVERNING ACCEPTANCE OF CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS:
Pursuant to the act, the city manager may adopt reasonable rules governing the
manner of acceptance of payments by credit cards including, but not limited to,
establishing minimum and maximum payments by credit cards and the imposition of
a fee for each transaction in order to wholly or partially offset the amount of
any discount or processing fee incurred by the city. (Ord. 03-0-29, 4-15-2003)
CHAPTER 17
RESERVED
Chapter reserved by Ord. 19-O-103.
CHAPTER 18
RESERVED
Chapter reserved by Ord. 19-O-103.
CHAPTER 19
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE
SECTION:
3.19.1: Definitions
3.19.2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
3.19.3: Applicable Principles
3.19.4: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
3.19.5: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
3.19.6: Late Fees, Payments
3.19.7: Cable Operator's Rights Under State And Federal Law
3.19.1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the following meanings in this chapter:
   CABLE SERVICE: As defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
   COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
   GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the city.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation and repair
charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
city. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the city
divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional
or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition.
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
      2.   Refunds, discounts or other price adjustments that reduce the amount
of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued authorization to
the extent the refund, rebate, credit or discount is attributable to cable
service or video service.
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards or orders.
      4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the city and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by the city, state, federal or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
   SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers
and the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to the city for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail or other services offered
over the public internet. (Ord. 09-0-22, 4-21-2009)
3.19.2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is imposed on any holder providing cable service or
video service in the city.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed shall be five percent (5%)
of the holder's gross revenues.
   C.   Notice To The City: The holder shall notify the city at least ten (10)
days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the city.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the city. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence on
the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt of
the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting this
chapter shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address
listed on the holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-401(b)(6) to the city.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee imposed does not apply to existing cable service or
video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement with the city
in which a fee is paid under other terms or conditions.
   G.   Clarification: No acceptance of any payment by the city shall be
construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any claim the city
may have for further or additional sums payable as a fee or for the performance
of any other obligation of the cable or video service provider.
   H.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection B of this section. (Ord. 09-0-22, 4-21-2009)
3.19.3: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 09-0-22, 4-21-2009)
3.19.4: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the city, including any tax that is
or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the city's simplified
municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to any
telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization shall
not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the local
unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 09-0-22, 4-21-
2009)
3.19.5: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   Audit Requirement: The city will notify the holder of the requirements
it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to submit to an
audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the same
requirements the city imposes on other cable service or video service providers
in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to recompute
any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the city. If all
local franchises between the city and cable operator terminate, the audit
requirements shall be those adopted by the city pursuant to the local
government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et
seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an accord that
the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the city's submission of an invoice for the
sum. (Ord. 09-0-22, 4-21-2009)
3.19.6: LATE FEES, PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by the city pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights
act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 09-0-22, 4-21-2009)
3.19.7: CABLE OPERATOR'S RIGHTS UNDER STATE AND FEDERAL LAW:
This chapter is not intended, nor shall any provision herein be construed as to
limit any rights of the cable operator under state or federal law including,
but not limited to, the cable act of 1984. All cable and video service
providers acting under this chapter shall be subject to all other city
ordinances including, but not limited to, chapter 20, "Cable And Video Customer
Protection Law", of this title and title 6, chapter 1, article D, "Construction
Of Utility Facilities In The Rights Of Way", of this code. (Ord. 09-0-22, 4-21-
2009)
CHAPTER 20
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
SECTION:
3.20.1: Customer Service And Privacy Protection Law
3.20.2: Enforcement
3.20.3: Penalties
3.20.4: Customer Credits
3.20.1: CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW:
   A.   Adoption: The regulations of the cable and video customer protection
law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22-501 et seq., are hereby adopted by
reference and made applicable to the cable or video providers offering services
within the city's boundaries. (Ord. 07-0-101, 12-4-2007; amd. Ord. 09-0-22, 4-
21-2009)
   B.   Amendments: Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection
law that becomes effective after the effective date of this chapter shall be
incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the city's boundaries. However, any
amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities
shall not be incorporated into this chapter by reference without formal action
by the city council. (Ord. 07-0-101, 12-4-2007)
3.20.2: ENFORCEMENT:
Pursuant to law, the city declares its intent to enforce all of the customer
service and privacy protection standards of the cable and video protection law
with respect to complaints received from residents within the city. (Ord. 07-0-
101, 12-4-2007)
3.20.3: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty: In addition to the penalties provided by law, the schedule of
penalties found in 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22-501(r)(1) shall be
applicable for any material breach of the cable and video protection law by
cable or video providers. The monetary penalties shall apply on a competitively
neutral basis and shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each day of the material breach and shall not exceed twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence of a material breach per customer.
(Ord. 07-0-101, 12-4-2007; amd. Ord. 09-0-22, 4-21-2009)
For purposes of this section, "material breach" means any substantial failure
of a cable or video provider to comply with service quality and other standards
specified in any provision of the law.
A material breach, for the purpose of assessing penalties, shall be deemed to
occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by the cable or
video service provider after the notice pursuant to subsection B of this
section.
   B.   Notice: The city shall give the cable or video provider written notice
of any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified
material breach. (Ord. 07-0-101, 12-4-2007)
3.20.4: CUSTOMER CREDITS:
The credits provided in 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22-501(s) shall be
applied on the statement issued to the customer for the next billing cycle
following a violation or the discovery of a violation of this chapter. The
cable or video provider shall be responsible for providing the credits and the
customer is under no obligation to request the credit. (Ord. 07-0-101, 12-4-
2007; amd. Ord. 09-0-22, 4-21-2009)
CHAPTER 21
RESERVED
Chapter reserved by Ord. 19-O-103.
CHAPTER 22
RETAIL SINGLE-USE BAG PROGRAM
SECTION:
3.22.1: Definitions
3.22.2: Carryout Single-Use Bag Fee
3.22.3: Remittance
3.22.4: Failure To Pay Fee
3.22.5: Reusable Bags
3.22.6: Permitted Bags
3.22.7: Prohibited Conduct
3.22.8: Books And Records
3.22.9: Penalties
3.22.10: Effect And Repeal
3.22.1: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases set forth below are hereby defined as follows for
purposes of this chapter:
CARRYOUT SINGLE-USE BAG: Any paper or plastic bag provided by a retail
establishment to a customer at the point of sale, pickup, or delivery to carry
purchased items. A carryout single-use bag does not include:
   A.   A bag provided by a pharmacist that contains a prescription drug;
   B.   A paper bag provided to protect a single fragile or glass-bottled item;
   C.   Any newspaper bag, door hanger bag, or bag intended for initial use as
a dry cleaning, garbage, pet waste, or yard waste bag;
   D.   A bag provided at the point of sale at a seasonal event, such as a
farmer's market, street fair, or yard sale, or by an occasional retailer;
   E.   A paper or plastic bag that a restaurant gives a customer to take
prepared or leftover food or drink from the restaurant; or
   F.   A bag used to package a bulk item, or to contain or wrap a perishable
item.
   G.   Any bag used for curbside pickup or delivery for items purchased using
the internet before January 1, 2023.
CUSTOMER(S): Any person purchasing goods from a store.
DIRECTOR: Director means the City's Finance Director.
PROGRAM: The City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall establish a
process for a retail establishment to comply with this chapter.
RESTAURANT: Any lunchroom, café, or other establishment located in a permanent
building for the accommodation of the public, equipped with a kitchen
containing facilities and utensils for preparing and serving meals to the
public, and outfitted with a public dining area. A restaurant does not include
any area of a supermarket, department store, or other retail establishment
beyond the kitchen and public dining area.
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: Any person engaged in the retail sale of goods with a
floor area whose square footage is five thousand feet (5,000') or greater,
which sells perishable or non-perishable goods, including, but not limited to,
clothing, food and personal items, directly to customers. Retail establishment
includes any supermarket, convenience store, shop, or service station.
REUSABLE BAG: A bag with handles that is specifically designed and manufactured
for multiple re-use and is made of cloth, fiber, or other machine washable
fabric. (Ord. 19-O-75, 9-17-2019; amd. Ord. 19-O-82, 10-15-2019; Ord. 21-O-66,
12-21-2021)
3.22.2: CARRYOUT SINGLE-USE BAG FEE:
   A.   A fee in the amount of ten cents ($0.10) is levied and imposed on each
customer for each carryout single-use bag that a retail establishment provides
to a customer.
   B.   Each retail establishment must collect the amount of the fee imposed
pursuant to this section when the customer makes any payment for goods in
person, through the internet, by telephone, by facsimile, or by any other
means. The retail establishment must hold the fees required to be collected
under this section in trust for the City until remitted as required by this
chapter.
   C.   Each retail establishment may retain three cents ($0.03) from each ten
cent ($0.10) fee that the store collects to cover the administrative expense of
collecting and remitting the fee to the City.
   D.   A retail establishment must indicate on the customer's transaction
receipt the number of carryout bags that the store provided to the customer and
the total amount of fee levied under this section. (Ord. 19-O-75, 9-17-2019)
3.22.3: REMITTANCE:
   A.   On or before the twenty fifth (25th) of each month, each retail
establishment must remit to the Director the full amount of the fee collected
for all carryout bags provided to a customer during the previous month, less
the amount retained under Section
3.22.2 .
   B.   Each remittance must be accompanied by a report of all transactions
subject to the fee. The report must be on a form supplied by the Director and
must contain the number of bags supplied or provided to customers, the amount
of the fee required by this chapter to be collected, notice regarding the
applicability of the Illinois Freedom of Information Act, and any other
information the Director requires to assure that the required fee has been
remitted to the City.
   C.   If the retail establishment does not file a required report within the
time required by this chapter, the Director may estimate the amount of fee due.
The Director may base the estimate on a reasonable projection of bags supplied
or provided and may consider fees reported by other stores.
   D.   The Director may send a notice of the estimated fee due, including
penalties pursuant to Section
3.22.4  below, to the retail establishment's last known address. The retail
establishment must pay the estimated fee, including any interest and penalty
assessed by the Director, within ten (10) days after the notice is sent.
   E.   Funds received by the City pursuant to this article shall be deposited
into the City's Environmental Management Fund. (Ord. 19-O-75, 9-17-2019)
3.22.4: FAILURE TO PAY FEE:
If for any reason any fee is not paid when due by a retail establishment, a
penalty at the rate of two percent (2%) per month on the amount of the fee
which remains unpaid shall be due and owing in addition to other penalties
authorized by this chapter. (Ord. 19-O-75, 9-17-2019)
3.22.5: REUSABLE BAGS:
A retail establishment may provide reusable bags to its customers for the
purpose of enabling the customer to carry away goods from the point of sale.
The fee imposed pursuant to Section
3.22.2  above shall not apply to reusable bags. (Ord. 19-O-75, 9-17-2019)
3.22.6: PERMITTED BAGS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit a customer from using
bags of any type that the customer brings to the store for the customer's own
use or from carrying away goods from the store that are not placed in a bag
provided by the store. (Ord. 19-O-75, 9-17-2019)
3.22.7: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
A retail establishment shall not:
   A.   Neglect or refuse to collect or remit the fee levied under this
chapter;
   B.   File an incomplete, false, or fraudulent report to the Director;
   C.   Neglect or refuse to keep complete and accurate records; or
   D.   Refuse to allow the Director to inspect and audit the retail
establishment's records. (Ord. 19-O-75, 9-17-2019)
3.22.8: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every retail establishment required to collect the fee imposed pursuant to this
chapter shall keep accurate books and records of its business, including
original source documents and books of entry denoting the transaction that gave
rise, or may have given rise, to the fee being imposed. Each retail
establishment must preserve for three (3) years all records necessary to
determine the amount of the fee due under this section. All such books and
records shall be subject to and available for inspection by the Director during
regular business hours. (Ord. 19-O-75, 9-17-2019)
3.22.9: PENALTIES:
Any person or retail establishment that violates any provision of this article
shall be subject to the general penalty provisions of Title 1, Chapter 4 of the
Woodstock City Code and shall be responsible for the cost of the City's
reasonable attorney fees. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute
a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 19-O-75, 9-17-2019)
3.22.10: EFFECT AND REPEAL:
This chapter shall be in effect on January 1, 2020. Following the first twelve
(12) months this chapter is in effect, the City's Environmental, and Cultural &
Social Awareness Commissions shall review the program and shall provide a
report to the City Council, no later than July 1, 2021, to allow the City
Council to determine whether to alter, replace or repeal the program. (Ord. 19-
O-75, 9-17-2019)
CHAPTER 23
RESERVED
Chapter reserved by Ord. 19-O-103.
CHAPTER 24
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY SEASONAL OUTDOOR SEATING PERMIT
SECTION:
3.24.1: Definitions
3.24.2: Permit Required And Eligibility
3.24.3: General Standards
3.24.4: Application
3.24.5: Fees
3.24.6: Enforcement And Penalties
3.24.1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this section, outdoor seating shall be defined as follows:
OUTDOOR SEATING: Any area on the public sidewalk, public parkway or on public
parking spaces adjacent to an existing business, including all associated
furniture and related fixtures or equipment, where food and/or beverages may be
consumed at tables and chairs, whether the food and/or beverages are purchased
at the table or inside the adjacent business. (Ord. 23-O-15, 2-21-2023)
3.24.2: PERMIT REQUIRED AND ELIGIBILITY:
   A.   No person, firm or corporation shall use any portion of the public
right-of-way under the jurisdiction of the City for outdoor seating, as defined
herein, without first obtaining an outdoor seating permit.
   B.   Permits will be issued only to businesses owning or leasing property
immediately adjacent to City-owned public right-of-way.
   C.   Applications for outdoor seating permits may be submitted to the City
beginning on March 1 of each calendar year.
   D.   Permits are valid beginning April 15 and shall expire on October 15 of
the same calendar year.
   E.   No permit shall be issued to any business which is not in compliance
with all other provisions of the City's Code. (Ord. 23-O-15, 2-21-2023)
3.24.3: GENERAL STANDARDS:
All permit holders shall be subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Placement: The location of outdoor seating shall not obstruct normal
ingress to and egress from the permit holder's business or any other
businesses. Outdoor seating shall not unreasonably interfere with pedestrian or
vehicular traffic or with access to parked vehicles.
      1.   A clear path of at least five feet (5') shall be provided for the
passage of pedestrians along any public sidewalk or walkway and the clear path
shall be maintained when any chair is pulled out from a table, particularly
where a chair back faces the pedestrian walkway.
      2.   Incidental items placed in the public outdoor seating area for the
operation of the outdoor seating area shall be properly weighted to prevent the
creation of a windblown hazard and shall be removed at the end of the business
day.
   B.   Temporary Barriers: A temporary barrier shall be installed at the
perimeter and around the licensed area to prevent moving tables and/or chairs
within the outdoor seating area further into the public right-of-way, and
which, when liquor is served upon the licensed premises, shall not permit
access to the licensed area except from within an adjacent building or through
one passageway controlled by the licensee and/or its employees.
   C.   Furniture, Fixtures And Equipment:
      1.   All furniture, fixtures and equipment used in conjunction with an
outdoor seating area shall be installed and maintained at the sole cost and
expense of the licensee in a good and workmanlike manner, satisfactory to the
City.
      2.   All furniture, fixtures and equipment used in conjunction with an
outdoor seating area shall be designed for outdoor use. No interior tables and
chairs shall be placed in the outdoor seating area.
      3.   No tables, umbrellas, enclosure fencing, or other equipment shall be
attached or affixed to the sidewalk, parkway, poles or any other public
facilities.
      4.   Umbrellas, if approved for use as part of the approved permit, shall
be secured at the end of each business day. Umbrellas shall maintain a minimum
vertical clearance of seven feet (7') from the outdoor seating surface and
shall not project outside of the approved outdoor seating area or into the
required clear path for pedestrian passage. No umbrella shall obstruct any
street signs.
      5.   All furniture, fixtures and equipment used in conjunction with an
outdoor seating area shall be adequately stored and/or secured when the
business is closed for business.
      6.   All furniture, fixtures and equipment used in conjunction with an
outdoor seating area shall be removed by the permit holder to accommodate snow
removal when snow is present. Items interfering with the City's ability to
remove snow may be removed and relocated and a fine may be levied. A permit
holder may retrieve any furniture, fixtures and equipment removed by the City
at their sole cost and expense.
      7.   All tables, chairs and any other related furniture fixtures and
equipment shall be removed from the public outdoor seating no later than
November 1 of each calendar year.
   D.   Hours Of Operation: No outdoor seating shall be permitted between the
hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. on weekdays,
and between twelve o’clock (12:00) A.M. midnight and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. on
weekends.
   E.   Signage: No advertising signs shall be attached to any fence, wall,
barrier, furniture, fixtures or equipment of the outdoor seating area, except
as may be permitted by Chapter 13, Sign Controls, of the Woodstock Unified
Development Ordinance.
   F.   Amplified Music: No amplified music is allowed within an outdoor
seating area without prior approval by the City.
   G.   Maintenance And Upkeep:
      1.   All public areas encompassed by the outdoor seating permit shall be
maintained in a sanitary manner at all times. Food scraps and containers shall
be disposed of in appropriate refuse containers on a regular basis throughout
the business day by the permit holder. Sweeping of refuse or food scraps into
tree grates or the sewer is not permitted.
      2.   Permit holders shall ensure that the public areas encompassed by
their outdoor seating permit are clean at the end of each business day, so as
not to have any food or drink leftovers remaining which would pose an
attraction to animals or insects. Each permit holder shall wash, as needed, the
public area to remove any food or drink residue that may attract animals or
insects and/or create a pedestrian slip hazard.
      3.   Permit holders are responsible for emptying the public trash
containers placed by the City if they should become full prior to the next
regular pickup time.
      4.   All existing public improvements within an outdoor seating area on
the public right-of-way, such as landscaping, trash receptacles, street
lighting, street signs and the like, shall be maintained in the condition as
they existed at the time that the permit was issued. The permit holder shall be
responsible to the City for any damage occurring to such public improvements
where such damage arises from or occurs in consequence of the presence and/or
operation of the outdoor seating. The permit holder shall immediately report
any damage to such public improvements to the City. The City may repair or
replace such improvement in its discretion and may charge the cost of such
repair or replacement to the permit holder, unless the licensee can establish
that the damage resulted from a cause not related to the operation or the use
of the outdoor seating.
   H.   Other Requirements:
      1.   All applicable County Health Department sanitation requirements
shall be followed for outdoor food handling. The permit holder is responsible
for posting any special Health Department requirements within the outdoor
seating area in a clearly visible manner.
      2.   It shall be the permit holder's responsibility to accommodate
persons with disabilities at the outdoor seating area in conformance with
applicable state law.
      3.   The consumption and possession of alcoholic beverages in the area
for which an outdoor seating permit has been issued shall be prohibited, except
as allowed pursuant to Title 3, "Business and Licenses Regulations," Chapter 3,
"Liquor Control."
      4.   It shall be the permit holder's responsibility to ensure that the
use and operation of outdoor seating complies with the Smoke-Free Illinois Act
(410 ILCS 82; Public Act 095-0017).
   I.   Denial Of Permit: A request for an outdoor seating permit may be denied
if the outdoor seating is found to present a health, safety or traffic issue.
   J.   Assignment; Transferability: An outdoor seating permit may not be
assigned or transferred without prior written consent of the City Manager. Any
attempted assignment or transfer in violation of this subsection shall be void
and confer no rights upon any third person.
   K.   Private Property: The outdoor seating permit shall not confer any
property rights, other than to allow the holder of a public right-of-way
outdoor seating permit to make a complaint to law enforcement about nuisance
behavior, and have such a nuisance addressed as if it were on private property.
   L.   Suspension; Revocation: The City may suspend or revoke the outdoor
seating permit for any reason including, but not limited to violations of any
provision of the Woodstock Municipal Code, after providing at least three (3)
days written notice, except in an emergency, to a permit holder. (Ord. 23-O-15,
2-21-2023)
3.24.4: APPLICATION:
All applicants for outdoor seating permits shall complete an application on a
form provided by the City. An inspection of the property to document existing
conditions of public improvements may be performed by the City prior to
issuance of a permit. All applications shall include:
   A.   A dimensioned drawing showing the boundaries of the proposed outdoor
seating area adjacent to the business, including any street lights, signs,
planters, trees, tree grates, the curb, benches, railings or any other public
appurtenances, and the proposed location of any tables, chairs, umbrellas,
trash receptacles, host stands, fences, planters, barriers and any other
equipment to be placed on the public right-of-way.
   B.   Prior to issuance of an outdoor seating permit, the permit holder shall
provide the City with copies of the certificates of insurance for the required
policies for each type of insurance naming the City as an additional insured
party with respect to the public property or right of way on which the outdoor
seating is located and the use and operation of such outdoor seating by permit
holder. The required insurance policies shall each provide that they shall not
be changed or cancelled during the life of the outdoor seating permit until
thirty (30) days after written notice of such change has been delivered to the
City.
      1.   Worker's Compensation Insurance in at least the required statutory
limits.
      2.   Commercial General Liability: Commercial General Liability
occurrence insurance with a limit of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for each occurrence and two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) in
the aggregate. The policy shall include coverage at least as broad as Insurance
Service Office policy form CG 00 01 or any replacement thereof. The certificate
of insurance for the Commercial General Liability insurance policy shall
expressly cover the obligations of indemnification required by the City Manager
or their designee. These limits may be met through a combination of primary and
excess liability coverage.
      3.   Umbrella Liability Insurance with limits of at least two million
dollars ($2,000,000.00) per occurrence.
      4.   Liquor Liability Coverage for any establishment serving alcohol on
public property.
   C.   A signed indemnification statement indemnifying and holding the City
harmless for the applicant's use of the outdoor seating area, on a form
provided by the City. (Ord. 23-O-15, 2-21-2023)
3.24.5: FEES:
The fee for an outdoor seating permit, due upon issuance of a permit, shall be
as follows:
   A.   Use of any public sidewalk or parkway areas: Fifty cents ($0.50) per
square foot; and/or
   B.   Use of any public parking space: One dollar ($1.00) per square foot
(note: a typical perpendicular parking stall measures a minimum of nine feet
(9') wide by eighteen feet (18') long, or one hundred sixty two (162) square
feet, and a typical parallel parking stall measures a minimum of ten feet (10')
wide by twenty three feet (23') long, or two hundred thirty (230) square feet.
(Ord. 23-O-15, 2-21-2023)
3.24.6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   The Director of the City's Office of Building and Zoning and the
Director's designees shall administer and enforce the provisions of this
Chapter. Any violation of the requirements of this Chapter will result in the
following:
      1.   First notice of violation will result in a written notice of
correction.
      2.   Second notice of violation will result in a suspension of the permit
for a two (2) week period.
      3.   Third notice of violation will result in revocation of the permit
for the remainder of the calendar year.
   B.   Fines may also be levied in accordance with Title 1, Chapter
1.4.1 of this City Code for each offense plus the City's cost of prosecution
including, but not limited to, its attorneys' fees. Each day that a violation
continues or persists shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Unless otherwise specifically provided for in this Chapter, the City
shall initiate adjudication procedures in accordance with Title 1, Chapter 7,
Article L of this Code to settle contested matter(s), to achieve compliance
with this Chapter, to assess penalties and fines, and to collect outstanding
obligations.
   D.   Nothing in this Chapter shall limit the City's authority to pursue
enforcement of the City's Code at any time nor shall anything in this Chapter
limit other remedies or civil penalties available to the City under any other
law or regulation. (Ord. 23-O-15, 2-21-2023)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4.1.1: Nuisances Prohibited
4.1.2: Nuisances Defined
4.1.3: Additional Specific Enumeration Of Nuisances
4.1.3.1: Cemeteries
4.1.3.2: Storage And Handling Of Food
4.1.3.3: High Pressure Sodium Vapor Lighting
4.1.3.4: Storage Of Personalty
4.1.3.5: Erosion And Sedimentation Control
4.1.3.6: Fireworks And Explosives
4.1.3.7: Sump Pump Discharge
4.1.3.8: Garbage, Refuse, And Yard Waste
4.1.3.9: Weeds
4.1.3.10: Noise
4.1.3.11: Nuisance Penalties
4.1.3.12: Abatement And Liens
4.1.1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No person shall cause, permit or maintain any nuisance on any property under
their control. The City Building and Zoning Officer, the City Chief of Police,
and/or the McHenry County Public Health Administrator are authorized to abate
any nuisance existing in the City, whether or not such nuisance is one
specifically defined by law or ordinance. (Ord. 17-O-81, 9-19-2017)
4.1.2: NUISANCES DEFINED:
The following are nuisances:
   A.   Any act committed or any structure, substance or thing which is
injurious or dangerous to the public health, safety or comfort.
   B.   Any stagnant pool of water.
   C.   Uncovered piles of refuse, garbage or offal, or the carcasses of dead
animals, or any offensive or nauseous substances.
   D.   The pollution of any watercourse or source of water supply for the
City. (1963 Code, §25.02; amd. Ord. 17-O-81, 9-19-2017)
   E.   Other additional nuisances as enumerated in this chapter. (Ord. 17-O-
81, 9-19-2017)
4.1.3: ADDITIONAL SPECIFIC ENUMERATION OF NUISANCES:
4.1.3.1: CEMETERIES:
No person shall establish a cemetery within the City, or bury any person within
the City limits or within a mile thereof, except in an established cemetery.
(1963 Code, §25.05)
4.1.3.2: STORAGE AND HANDLING OF FOOD:
   A.   Unwholesome Food: No person shall sell or keep any food intended for
human consumption which is spoiled or tainted or is unwholesome and unfit for
human consumption. All tainted or unwholesome food intended for human
consumption shall be condemned and shall thereupon be seized and destroyed by
the Health Department or any police officer. (1963 Code, §25.06)
   B.   Adulterated Food: No person shall sell or keep any food intended for
human consumption which has been adulterated by any material harmful in any
way, or which does not comply with the State law. (1963 Code, §25.07)
   C.   Sanitary Handling Of Food: Premises used for the sale or storage of
food intended for human consumption shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition. No person shall permit the accumulation of refuse or waste of any
kind thereon for more than twenty four (24) hours, or decaying animal or plant
matter or waste to remain on any such premises at any time. Such premises shall
have City water in the building and sanitary sewer facilities. (1963 Code,
§25.08)
   D.   Flies And Vermin: Premises used for the storage of food intended for
human consumption shall be kept free from flies and vermin. (1963 Code, §25.09)
   E.   Employees: All persons handling or coming in contact with food intended
for human consumption shall keep themselves and their clothes clean. No person
afflicted with a contagious or venereal disease shall handle or be permitted to
handle any food intended for sale for human consumption. (1963 Code, §25.10)
   F.   Utensils: Utensils for personal use in all places serving food or drink
to the public shall be thoroughly cleaned and sterilized after each such usage.
(1963 Code, §25.11)
4.1.3.3: HIGH PRESSURE SODIUM VAPOR LIGHTING:
   A.   The use of high pressure sodium vapor lighting within the City is
hereby permitted, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   The area in which the high pressure sodium vapor lighting is used
shall be clearly defined and separated from areas lighted by other forms of
lighting;
      2.   High pressure sodium shall be the sole source of lighting provided;
      3.   All sodium vapor lighting shall be installed in downlight fixtures
so that the light source does not extend below the opaque portion of said
fixture housings.
   B.   From and after the effective date hereof, the use of low pressure
sodium vapor lighting or the use of high pressure sodium vapor lighting, except
as provided herein, on any street, parking lot or other public or semipublic
area in the City is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   C.   From and after the effective date hereof, any person who shall install
low pressure sodium vapor lighting or high pressure sodium vapor lighting,
except as provided herein, on any street, parking lot or other public or
semipublic area shall be guilty of a nuisance. (Ord. 1678, 8-4-1981)
4.1.3.4: STORAGE OF PERSONALTY:
   A.   The unenclosed or unsheltered storage or standing of any one or more
items of tangible personal property that is abandoned, discarded, unused,
stripped, junked, wrecked, dismantled, scrapped, salvaged, not in running
condition, or not in good and safe operating condition for a period of ten (10)
days or more is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to public
health, safety and welfare. Such tangible personal property is hereinafter
referred to as "said personalty" and includes, but is not limited to,
automobiles, trucks, trailers, buses, tractors, farm implements, farm
machinery, motorcycles, wagons, construction equipment, and any other type of
vehicle, or any part or parts thereof, lumber, wood, junk, trash, debris,
paper, tires, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, plumbing fixtures,
cans, containers, industrial and other waste, copper, brass, iron, steel, tin,
aluminum, lead, any other metal or alloy, rags, batteries, any other machinery,
and any other ferrous or nonferrous material, goods or articles.
   B.   The owner, owners, tenants, lessees and/or occupants of any real estate
upon which such storage or standing is made, and also the owner, owners and/or
lessees of said personalty involved (all of whom are hereinafter referred to
collectively as "owners"), shall jointly and severally abate said nuisance by
the prompt removal of said personalty. (Ord. 814, 4-1-1969)
   C.   If said owners allow said nuisance to exist or fail to abate said
nuisance, they, and each of them, shall be guilty of a separate offense for
each day during or on which such nuisance exists. (Ord. 814, 4-1-1969; amd.
1986 Code)
   D.   It shall be an affirmative defense to any charge brought against said
owners for violation of this section that such storage or standing is on real
estate that is lawfully zoned, under the City zoning ordinance, as amended, as
an "auto wrecking yard". (Ord. 814, 4-1-1969)
4.1.3.5: EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL:
   A.   The erosion of soil and deposition of sediment onto public roads and
right-of-way is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to public
health, safety, and welfare.
   B.   The owner, owners, tenants, lessees and/or occupants of property from
which erosion of soil and deposition of sediment onto public roads and right-
of-way is occurring, shall jointly and severally abate said nuisance through
the provision of silt traps, filters, siltation fencing, topsoil/seeding, or
similar measures as approved by the Director of Public Works. (Ord. 04-O-16, 2-
3-2004)
4.1.3.6: FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES:
   A.   Definition: The term "fireworks" shall mean and include any explosive
composition, or any substance or combination of substances, or article prepared
for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary
exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion, deflagration or detonation, and
shall include blank cartridges, toy cannons, in which explosives are used, the
type of balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same,
firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, roman candles, bombs or other fireworks or
like construction and any other device containing any explosive compound, or
any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance, or containing
combustible substances producing visual effects.
Fireworks shall not include snake or glowworm pellets; smoke devices; trick
noisemakers known as party poppers, booby traps, snappers, trick matches,
cigarette loads and auto burglar alarms; and sparklers, as well as toy pistols,
toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic caps containing
twenty five hundredths (25/100) grain or less of explosive compound are used,
provided they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the
cap when in place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper or plastic caps which
contain less than twenty hundredths (20/100) grain of explosive mixture; the
sale and use of which shall be permitted at all times.
   B.   Fireworks Prohibited: Except as provided herein, no person shall
manufacture, possess, sell, offer for sale, use or explode any fireworks in the
City. However, the City Council may grant a permit for a fireworks display
under such reasonable conditions as it may impose including, but not limited
to, conditions under the provisions of this section and 425 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 35/0.01 et seq.
   C.   Insurance: Accompanying a fireworks display application shall be an
endorsement of insurance naming the City as a primary, noncontributory
additional insured with limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and excess coverage of not less than four
million dollars ($4,000,000.00) covering general liability including bodily
injury, personal injury and property damage and providing no shooter exclusion.
Such endorsement shall provide that the insurance shall not be terminated or
renewed for any reason without thirty (30) days' advance written notice to the
City.
   D.   Smoking Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person in charge of such
public displays to smoke any lighted pipe, cigarette or cigar at any time
during which such public display is going on or in the vicinity of materials to
be used for such displays.
   E.   Storage Regulations: All permitted explosives shall be stored or kept
in accordance with the provisions of applicable statutes.
   F.   Storage Of Nitroglycerin And TNT: It is unlawful to keep or store any
nitroglycerin or the explosive commonly known as TNT in the City in any
quantities, excepting for medicinal or laboratory purposes and for such
purposes, no more than one- fourth (1/4) ounce shall be stored in any one
building or premises.
   G.   Violation; Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any
provision of this section shall be fined not less than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense and be responsible for the City's cost of prosecution. Each day that a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Restitution by the
violator shall also be made to any property damaged or destroyed or person
injured. (Ord. 06-O-51, 6-20-2006)
4.1.3.7: SUMP PUMP DISCHARGE:
   A.   Sump Pump Discharge On Public Property: No person shall construct,
alter, maintain or in any way provide for the discharge of flow from a sump
pump hose or pipe that results in the creation of a hazard or standing water on
a public right-of-way, public sidewalk, or street pavement. Such hazard or
standing water is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to public
health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 11-O-22, 3-1-2011)
   B.   Sump Pump Discharge On Private Property: Unless otherwise reviewed and
approved by the Public Works Department, no person shall construct, alter,
maintain or in any way provide for the discharge of flow from a sump pump hose
or pipe that is closer than five feet (5') from any lot line, or that results
in the creation of a hazard or standing water on private property. Such hazard
or standing water is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to public
health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 18-O-52, 10-2-2018)
   C.   Stormwater Sump Pumps: Stormwater sump pumps may only be connected
directly to the sewer system where deemed necessary by the Director of Public
Works. Prior to any work on such a connection, a drawing shall be submitted to
the Public Works Department and reviewed and approved by the Public Works
Department.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any
provision of this section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
or more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense and be
responsible for the City's cost of prosecution. Each day that a violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. In addition to any fine, the
City may shut off water service to the property if: 1) the person, firm or
corporation has been given proper notice of a violation; 2) the person, firm or
corporation has been given seven (7) days to correct the violation; and 3) the
person, firm or corporation has failed to correct the violation within the
seven (7) days. (Ord. 11-O-22, 3-1-2011)
4.1.3.8: GARBAGE, REFUSE, AND YARD WASTE:
   A.   Containers: Except as provided for in title 3,
chapter 8 , garbage, yard waste, recyclables and other refuse, all owners or
occupants of any building, business, flat, apartment or tenement in the City
where people reside, board, lodge, or where food is prepared or served shall
maintain in good order galvanized metal or plastic garbage containers with
covers for the temporary storage of garbage, food containers, bottles and
materials intended for collection and disposal.
   B.   Deposits Of Garbage And Refuse In Streets: No garbage or refuse of any
kind shall be deposited in any street, alley or public way, and no refuse shall
be so placed that it can be blown about or scattered by the wind or be
accessible by animals. No garbage can, tin, container or receptacle shall be
deposited curbside or in a designated place for collection more than twenty
four (24) hours prior to the normal collection date and no garbage can, tin,
container or receptacle shall be allowed to remain curbside for more than
twenty four (24) hours after the collection of such garbage or refuse.
   C.   Accumulation Of Garbage, Refuse And Yard Waste Prohibited: No person
shall permit the unreasonable storage or accumulation of garbage, refuse or
waste products on any property in the City. The storage and/or accumulation of
garbage, refuse and debris upon private property is hereby declared a public
nuisance. In addition, it shall be unlawful to accumulate yard waste, including
leaves, grass, underbrush, branches or other combustible matter on any property
in such quantities and in such condition to constitute an undesirable nuisance,
a public health hazard or a public safety or fire hazard, except in a compost
pile or other methods as established and maintained in a manner prescribed by
the city.
   D.   Except when placed curbside for pickup in a manner consistent with
chapter 8, the storage of receptacles shall be in such a manner to be closer to
the streets or public ways than the building setback lines as required under
the Unified Development Ordinance of the city.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or cause to be burned any
garbage or similar refuse within the corporate limits of the city.
   F.   Screening Of Deposit Sites:
      1.   Definitions:
   BUSINESS AREAS: Any lot, parcel, tract of land or geographical area in the
City, improved with structures or buildings devoted in whole or in part to the
retail or wholesale of any goods or commodities or the rendering of any
service, professional or otherwise.
   MANUFACTURING AREAS: Any lot, parcel, tract of land or geographical area in
the City, improved with buildings or structures devoted in whole or in part to
the manufacture, processing or assembly of materials or products of any kind,
nature or description.
   RESIDENTIAL AREAS: Any lot, parcel, tract of land or geographical area in
the City, containing or improved with buildings or structures containing three
(3) or more residential dwelling units each.
      2.   Nuisance Declared: The open, unenclosed, or unobstructed use of any
business, manufacturing or residential area, as defined herein, for the
deposit, accumulation, or storage of refuse, garbage, trash or similar
materials, is hereby deemed and declared to be a public nuisance.
      3.   Screening Required:
         a.   A dumpster or similar secure container used for the storage of
refuse, garbage, trash or similar materials shall not be located within a
required front yard or between the front of a building and the front property
line.
         b.   A dumpster or similar container may be located within a required
side yard or between the side of a building and the side property line. When
located within such a yard, the dumpster or container shall be screened,
enclosed, or otherwise prevented from being viewed by the general public. On a
corner parcel, such a dumpster or container shall not be located within the
side yard abutting a street.
         c.   A dumpster or similar container may be located within a required
rear yard or between the rear of a building and the rear property line. When
located within such a yard, the dumpster shall not be visible to the general
public. If it is in a location that is visible to the general public, it shall
be screened, enclosed, or otherwise prevented from being publicly viewed.
         d.   Dumpsters or similar containers which serve shopping centers,
business parks, and similar multi-occupant or multi-structure uses shall not be
visible to the general public. If it is in a location that is visible to the
general public, it shall be screened, enclosed, or otherwise prevented from
being publicly viewed.
         e.   Screening or enclosures to prevent viewing by the general public
may consist of a permanent, opaque fence, constructed of wood, metal, masonry,
or other appropriate material. Such screening or enclosures may be used in
conjunction with landscaping materials in order to be more effective. Screening
or enclosure materials which do not completely block the view of the dumpster
or similar container shall not be used.
         f.   Screening or enclosures shall be accessible to both users and
waste haulers, and shall be properly maintained and functional.
      4.   Permit Required: No person shall construct or build any fence or
enclosure herein required without a permit to do so. Applications for permits
shall be made in writing and upon forms supplied by the City. The application
shall:
         a.   Show the location of the industrial, commercial or residential
building;
         b.   Show the proposed location of the screening or enclosure and all
public access ways to the primary structure;
         c.   Specify the type of material to be used;
         d.   Show the number of openings to the enclosure;
         e.   Specify the height and length of the enclosure;
         f.   Show the location of the proposed screening or enclosure with
reference to the primary building.
   G.   White Goods:
      1.   White goods are defined as: Appliances containing hazardous
components as defined in 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22.28, including, but
not limited to, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, washing machines, dryers,
dishwashers, air conditioners, humidifiers, dehumidifiers, hot water heaters,
furnaces and trash compactors.
      2.   No person or owner of property within the City shall cause or allow
any white goods to be placed outside any structure except as provided in title
3, chapter 8, garbage, yard waste, recyclables and other refuse. Such act is
hereby declared a nuisance. (Ord. 17-O-81, 9-19-2017; amd. Ord. 25-O- 02, 2-4-
2025)
4.1.3.9: WEEDS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this chapter, "noxious weed" is
defined as Canada thistles (Cirsium arvense) and all of its varieties,
perennial sow thistles (Sonchus arvensis), European bindweed (Convolvulus
arvensis), leafy spurge (Tithymalus esula), Russian knapweed (Centaurea
repens), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense) and Sorghum alum and crosses derived
therefrom, Grant foxtail (Sectaria faberi), hoary cress (Lepidium draba),
ragweed (Ambrosia), jimson (Datura stramonium), burdock (Arctium lappa),
cockleburr (Xanthium orientale), goldenrod (Solidago canadensis) and other
weeds of a like kind.
   B.   Nuisance Declared:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any type of noxious
weed to grow on any real estate owned, occupied, controlled, managed or
possessed by such person in the City.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any other weeds, any
grasses or plants except trees, bushes, flowers, native landscaping, or other
ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding eight inches (8") on any real
estate owned, controlled, occupied, managed or possessed by such person in the
City. In no instance shall planting materials obstruct the pedestrian right-of-
way.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant or permit to grow any
bush of tall, common or European barberry (Berberis vulgaris) or its
horticultural varieties, on any real estate owned, occupied, controlled,
managed or possessed by such person in the City.
      4.   Noxious weeds, tall, common or European barberry (or its
horticultural varieties), and any flora (except trees, bushes, flowers and
other ornamental plants) exceeding eight inches (8") in height are declared to
be a nuisance. (Ord. 17-O-81, 9-19-2017)
4.1.3.10: NOISE:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section
4.1.3.10 , the following definitions shall apply:
dBA OR A-WEIGHTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: Shall mean the sound pressure level in
decibels as measured with a sound level meter using the A-weighting network.
The unit for reporting is dB(A) or dBA. Sounds measured with the "A" weighting
network approximate the response of human hearing when measuring sounds of low
to moderate intensity.
AMBIENT SOUND: Shall mean the sound pressure level which represents the
summation of the sound from all the discrete sources affecting a given site at
a given time, exclusive of the source under investigation.
DECIBEL: Shall mean a logarithmic unit used in measuring the magnitude of
sound. Decibel is abbreviated dB.
DWELLING: Shall mean a building or structure that is intended or designed to be
used, rented, leased, let or hired out for human habitation.
EMERGENCY POWER GENERATOR: Shall mean the equipment used to generate electrical
power in the event of an interruption, malfunction, or failure of the
electrical power otherwise supplied by the service provider.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Shall mean an authorized motor vehicle, motorboat, or
aircraft, which can lawfully be used for the transportation of emergency
personnel, equipment, and supplies while responding to the scene of an
emergency.
EMERGENCY WORK: Shall mean:
   1.   Work required to restore property to a safe condition following a
disaster or declaration of emergency;
   2.   Work required to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure
to danger; or
   3.   Work that absolutely cannot be done otherwise during the daytime hours
to protect the public's health by private or public entities for providing or
restoring immediately necessary utility service.
LEQ: Shall mean the average measure of continuous noise that has the equivalent
acoustic energy of the fluctuating signal over the same time period. For the
purposes of this regulation, an Leq measurement will be taken for a minimum of
one minute.
MULTI-DWELLING UNIT BUILDING: Shall mean any building comprising two (2) or
more dwelling units, including, but not limited to, apartments, condominiums,
co-ops, multiple family houses, townhouses, and attached residences.
MUNICIPAL APPROVED EVENT: Shall mean an assembly of people which continues and
can reasonably be expected to continue for two (2) or more hours per day on a
temporary basis not to exceed two (2) weeks (as opposed to an annual permit),
and has received a permit, license or authorization from the municipality.
RECEIVING PROPERTY: Shall mean any property, including an individual unit of a
multi-dwelling or multi-use property that is adversely affected by noise
transmitted by another property or from another unit within the same multi-
dwelling or multi-use property.
REPETITIVE IMPULSE SOUND: Shall mean any impulse sound repeated at intervals
such that a sound level meter set at "fast" meter characteristic will show
changes in sound pressure level greater than 10 dB(A) within one second.
SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT: Shall mean any mechanical equipment used for removing
snow from land or building surfaces including snow plows, snow blowers, snow
sweepers, and any spreader or applicator employed to apply a snow or ice
melting product.
SOUND: Shall mean an oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle
velocity or other physical parameter in a medium with interval forces that
cause compression or rarefaction of the medium.
SOUND LEVEL METER: Shall mean an instrument that includes a microphone,
amplifier, RMS detector, integrator, or time averager, output meter and
weighing networks used to measure sound pressure levels.
   B.   Noise Prohibitions:
      1.   General Prohibition Of Noise: Between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m., no person shall emit, nor shall any person cause, allow, permit, or
fail to control the emission of any noise source so as to exceed the maximum
allowable sound pressure levels set forth in Table 1 of this Section B.1. when
measured from the receiving property.
Table 1 - Maximum Permissible Sound Pressure Levels (Leq) Table
 
Receiving Property Use
(See Section D for        Between 6:00 p.m. and 11:  Between 11:00 p.m. and 7:
examples for each type of 00 p.m.                    00 a.m.
use)
Type A                    10 dBA above ambient sound 5 dBA above ambient sound
                          not to exceed 60 dBA       not to exceed 55 dBA
Type B                    10 dBA above ambient sound 5 dBA above ambient sound
                          not to exceed 65 dBA       not to exceed 60 dBA
Type C                    10 dBA above ambient sound 5 dBA above ambient sound
                          not to exceed 75 dBA       not to exceed 70 dBA
Type D                    10 dBA above ambient sound 5 dBA above ambient sound
                          not to exceed 75 dBA       not to exceed 75 dBA
 
      2.   Sound Pressure Level Measurements: Sound pressure level measurements
shall be made with a calibrated and certified Type 2 sound level meter or
better instrument as specified in the American National Standards Institute's
(ANSI) publication S1.4-1983 (Reaffirmed 2001) entitled, "Specifications for
Sound Level Meters", or its current successor; or the International
Electrochemical Commission (IEC) class or type 1 and 2 standard 61672. All
sound level measurements required by this regulation shall be taken in dBA
      3.   Repetitive Impulse Sound: For any stationary source of sound which
emits a repetitive impulse sound, the limits set forth in Table 1 shall be
reduced by 5 dBA when measured between the hours of 6:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. and
reduced by 10 dBA for Type A and Type B property use when measured between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
   C.   Exemptions: The following noises shall be exempt from the regulations
of this Section
4.1.3.10 :
      1.   Emergency Events And Equipment: Noise resulting from a response to
any emergency event, including the use of emergency equipment, emergency
vehicles, emergency relief valves, emergency work, and emergency power
generators, which provide emergency power or potable water to any hospital,
health clinic, nursing home, similar facilities, or physician prescribed home-
based personal medical equipment as approved by the City, where the loss of
electrical power or potable water poses an immediate risk to the health,
safety, and welfare of any person, or as required by federal or state law.
During a power failure, other commercial or personal emergency power generators
operating between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. may reach, but not
exceed, the maximum day time sound pressure levels set forth in Table 1 when
measured from the receiving property.
      2.   Heating, Ventilation, And Air Conditioning (HVAC): Noise resulting
from the operation of a HVAC system used on or within a Type A property
use,including central air conditioning units, evaporative coolers, or window
cooling units, regardless of the time or frequency of operation, provided the
system is in good repair and operating within manufacturer's specifications.
      3.   Mechanical Equipment: Noise resulting from the use of portable
mechanical equipment between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m., so long as
the equipment is in good repair, performs a legitimate service, and is being
used according to the manufacturer's specifications.
      4.   Municipal Activities: Activities and events held in or upon any
City-owned facility or other City-owned property or undertaken by City
employees or contractors.
      5.   Public Assembly: Noise directly resulting from crowd noise
associated with a public assembly.
      6.   Snow Removal And Street Sweeping: Noise resulting from the operation
of snow removal and street sweeping equipment.
      7.   Other Exemptions: The City Manager or the Liquor Commissioner may
each authorize exemptions from the prohibitions contained in this Section
4.1.3.10  for special occasions or exceptional circumstances.
   D.   Noise Area Classifications: For purposes of the receiving property uses
described in Table 1 of Section B of this Chapter, the following uses (and uses
similar to these examples) shall apply:
Type A Property Use Activities/Examples 
Single family residential structure that does not share a common wall with
residential or any other use.
Type B Property Use Activities/Examples
All other residential use not included in Type A including but not limited to:
Apartment/Condominium/Twin Home/Poli-Plex
Group home, community living
Residential hotel/motel
Mobile home park or court
Transient lodging
Correctional institution
Medical/other health service
Religious, Church activity
School, Educational Institution activity
Cultural activity and nature exhibition
Camping and picnicking areas (designated)
Resort, group camp
Other cultural, recreational activity
Type C Property Use Activities/Examples 
Retail trade
Building materials
Hardware
Farm equipment
General merchandise
Food, eating and drinking, other recreation (bar, discotheques, clubs)
Automotive & accessories, gas stations
Marine craft & accessories
Aircraft & accessories
Apparel & accessories
Furniture, home furnishings and equipment
Other retail trade
Finance, insurance, and real estate services
Personal services
Business services
Repair services
Legal services
Other professional services
Contract construction services
Governmental services (except correctional institutions)
Miscellaneous services (except religious activities)
Amusements (except fairgrounds and amusement parks)
Parks
Automobile parking
Type D Property Use Activities/Examples
Food and kindred products - manufacturing
Textile mill products - manufacturing
Apparel & other finished products made from fabrics, leather & similar
materials - manufacturing
Lumber and wood products (except furniture) – manufacturing
Furniture and fixtures - manufacturing
Paper and allied products- manufacturing
Printing, publishing, and allied industries
Chemicals and allied products – manufacturing
Petroleum refining and related industries
Rubber and miscellaneous plastic products – manufacturing
Stone, clay, & glass products – manufacturing
Primary metal industries
Fabricated metal products - manufacturing
Professional, scientific, and controlling instruments, photographic & optical
goods, watches and clocks - manufacturing
Miscellaneous manufacturing (except motion picture production)
Railroad, rapid transit, and street railway transportation (except passenger
terminals)
Motor vehicle transportation (except passenger terminals)
Aircraft transportation (except passenger terminals)
Marine craft transportation (except passenger and freight terminals)
Highway and street right-of-way Communication (except telegraph message
centers)
Utilities
Other transportation, communication & utilities (except transportation services
and arrangements)
Event and entertainment venues
Race tracks
Fairgrounds and amusement parks
Agricultural
Agricultural and related activities
Forestry activities and related services (including commercial forest land,
timber production, and other related activities)
Fishing activities and related services
Mining activities and related services
Other resource production and extraction
All other activities not otherwise listed
Undeveloped and unused land area (excluding noncommercial forest development)
Noncommercial forest development
Water areas
Vacant floor area
Under construction
Other undeveloped land and water areas
All other property uses not previously identified
(Ord. 19-O-74, 9-17-2019)
4.1.3.11: NUISANCE PENALTIES:
In addition to any other actions authorized by law or ordinance, any person
violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the fines and
penalties set forth in section
1.4.1 of this Code. If any person, firm, organization or corporation receiving
a citation for violating any provision of this chapter fails to pay, settle or
adjust the fine specified herein, then adjudication procedures may be initiated
in accordance with title 1, chapter 7, article L of this Code or with a court
of competent jurisdiction, and such processes as necessary shall commence.
(Ord. 17-O-81, 9-19-2017; amd. Ord. 19-O-74, 9-17-2019)
4.1.3.12: ABATEMENT AND LIENS:
   A.   For all violations of the nuisance provisions of this chapter
(excepting violations of the tree protection provisions of article A of this
chapter), the City may abate a nuisance and impose a lien on the property for
the costs of such abatement pursuant to the following procedures:
      1.   Notice To Owner:
         a.   If the City Manager (or his designee) determines that a public
nuisance exists on private property, a notice shall be served directing the
owner, occupant, or person causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance to
abate such nuisance within twenty four (24) hours or longer if authorized by
City ordinance or by the City Manager (or his designee).
         b.   For purposes of this section, the person to whom the last general
tax bill on the property was sent shall be presumed to be the owner. Notice by
regular mail to the owner or posting of notice on the front entrance to the
structure or similar location shall be deemed sufficient legal notice to the
owner, occupant and person causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance. If
there is no structure on the property, a sign may be posted anywhere on the
premises.
      2.   Extension: The City Manager (or his designee) may grant additional
time for the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining such
nuisance to cause the abatement of the nuisance, provided that such extension
is limited to a specific time period.
      3.   Abatement By City: If the nuisance is not abated within the time
provided, the City Manager (or his designee) may cause the abatement of such
nuisance.
      4.   Lien For Abatement Costs And Expenses:
         a.   After incurring costs and expenses for abatement of a nuisance on
private property, the City shall serve a notice of the amount due on the person
to whom the last general tax bill on the property was sent.
         b.   The notice shall be served either personally or by U.S. mail and
it shall include the following: 1) statement that the City has authority to
abate a nuisance pursuant to this chapter and to collect its costs and expenses
from the owner; 2) identify the underlying parcel by common description; and 3)
describe the abatement activity and costs incurred by the City; and 4) indicate
that a lien may be filed by the City against the property for remaining unpaid
charges and associated City costs.
         c.   A second notice shall be served in the same manner if the amount
remains unpaid twenty (20) days after the first notice has been served or
mailed. A one-time late penalty of ten percent (10%) of the bill shall be added
to the amount due.
         d.   If, forty five (45) days after service of the first notice, the
costs and expenses incurred by the City have not been paid, the City may file a
notice of lien in the Office of the McHenry County Recorder of Deeds.
         e.   Said notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement including
the following: 1) a description of the underlying parcel that sufficiently
identifies the parcel; 2) the abatement activity and the amount of the
abatement cost plus any late fees, administrative and recording costs; and 3)
the date or dates when the abatement cost was incurred by the City.
         f.   A release of lien shall be prepared by the City for the owner to
file only upon payment of the amount due plus any late fees, administrative and
recording costs incurred by the City or at the direction of the City Manager
(or his designee).
         g.   At the direction of the City Manager (or his designee), the City
Attorney is authorized to file suit in a court of competent jurisdiction to
foreclose on any lien recorded pursuant to this section. The City shall be
entitled to recover reasonable attorney fees in any action to foreclose a lien
recorded pursuant to this section.
   B.   The use of the remedies set forth in this section does not bar the use
of any other remedy provided for under this chapter, or any other remedy as may
be allowed by any other ordinance of the City or laws of the State of Illinois.
   C.   If the nuisance is of such threat to the welfare and safety of the
community that it must be abated immediately, the City Manager (or his
designee), in his or her sole discretion, is authorized to take such steps as
may be necessary to affect the abatement regardless of the requirements of this
section and may thereafter provide notice to the owner of such action and then
follow the lien provisions of this section to recover abatement and associated
costs. (Ord. 17-O-81, 9-19-2017; amd. Ord. 19-O-74, 9-17-2019)
ARTICLE A. TREE PROTECTION 1
SECTION:
4.1A.1: Purpose
4.1A.2: Definitions
4.1A.3: Applicability
4.1A.4: Desirable And Nondesirable Trees
4.1A.5: Tree Guidelines
4.1A.6: Dead, Dying, Diseased And Infested Trees
4.1A.7: Construction Precautions
4.1A.8: Administration And Appeals
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6.1A.10 of this Code.
4.1A.1: PURPOSE:
While allowing for the reasonable use of land, it is the intent of the City to
add to the tree population where possible and to maintain existing trees within
the City. The general purpose of the regulations set forth herein is to
preserve, protect, and properly maintain trees within the City, to encourage
the planting of new and replacement trees, to set good policy regarding trees
within the City, and to protect the public from trees which pose a problem or
danger. These regulations are intended to:
   A.   Encourage the planting of native tree species, especially oak and
hickory varieties characteristic of Woodstock's earlier years;
   B.   Enhance property values;
   C.   Reduce energy consumption by using trees as windbreaks and to provide
shade;
   D.   Assist in controlling soil erosion, reducing stormwater runoff, and
replenishing groundwater;
   E.   Preserve nesting areas for birds and wildlife which assist in the
control of noxious insects;
   F.   Provide buffers against noise pollution;
   G.   Eliminate trees that constitute a threat, danger, or nuisance within
the City, or that may be dangerous to the health of other trees; and
   H.   Protect and enhance Woodstock's physical and aesthetic environment,
quality of life and the general health, welfare, and safety of the City and its
residents. (Ord. 11-O-67, 12-6-2011; amd. Ord. 17-O-81, 9-19-2017)
4.1A.2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms when used in the interpretation and
administration of these regulations shall have the meaning set forth herein
except where otherwise specifically indicated. Words and terms not defined here
shall be defined as specified in the latest edition of "Webster's New
Collegiate Dictionary" or a similar dictionary of common usage.
DRIP LINE: The area lying between the trunk of a tree and the extreme outer
edge of the leaf and branch structure, i.e., the diameter of the leaf and
branch structure extended vertically down to the soil surface.
TREE, DANGEROUS: A dangerous tree is any tree or part of a tree which overhangs
public property, including, but not limited to, public right-of-way, public
streets and sidewalks, public parking areas, and public buildings, and that
interferes with traffic or is likely to fall across public property.
TREE, NUISANCE: A nuisance tree is any tree that is unhealthy and constitutes a
threat to the public health, safety, and welfare, or any tree that poses a
threat to a noninvasive tree or to an existing structure. A nuisance tree may
include, but is not limited to, those trees listed in subsection
4.1A.4A of this article.
TREE, PRIVATE: A private tree is any tree located on private property.
TREE, STREET: A street tree is any tree located on land situated between the
right-of-way lines of all public street right-of-way within the City. (Ord. 11-
O-67, 12-6-2011; amd. Ord. 17-O-81, 9-19-2017)
4.1A.3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The regulations and standards set forth herein shall apply to trees on
individual lots or parcels in the City of Woodstock except as otherwise
provided for herein.
   B.   The requirements of this article shall not apply to trees located on or
in a tree farm, nursery, or greenhouse where said trees are considered
inventory and intended to be sold in the regular course of business.
   C.   The requirements of this article shall not apply to commercial,
industrial, or multi-family development activity where detailed site
engineering, landscape, or site plan submittals have been approved as a
condition of building permit approval.
   D.   Before mass clearing or wholesale tree cutting/removal on any parcel,
compliance with the provisions and standards of this article shall occur and a
grading permit or erosion control permit shall be issued by the City.
   E.   A development proposal requiring subdivision or planned unit
development approval shall comply with applicable sections of chapter 8A,
subdivision and planned unit development design standards, of the current
edition of the City of Woodstock unified development ordinance, as amended from
time to time. (Ord. 11-O-67, 12-6-2011; amd. Ord. 17-O-81, 9-19-2017)
4.1A.4: DESIRABLE AND NONDESIRABLE TREES:
   A.   The following trees are considered "nuisance trees" and are discouraged
from being planted within the City:
Acer negundo           Box elder
Acer saccharinum       Silver maple
Ailanthus altissima    Tree of heaven
Elaeagnus angustifolia Russian olive
Elaeagnus umbellata    Autumn olive
Fraxinus species       Ash species
Gleditsia triacanthos  Honey locust (except for thornless varieties that do not
                       produce seed pods)
Populus species        Poplar species
Rhamnus cathartica     Common buckthorn
Rhamnus frangula       Glossy buckthorn
Robina pseudoacacia    Black locust
Ulmus pumila           Siberian elm
 
   B.   Planting of the following trees on private property is permitted and
encouraged, and will satisfy the requirements of these regulations:
Acer nigrum           Black maple
Acer saccharum        Sugar maple
Aesculus glabra       Ohio buckeye
Carpinus caroliniana  American hornbeam
Carya cordiformis     Bitternut hickory
Carya ovata           Shagbark hickory
Celtis occidentalis   Hackberry
Ostrya virginiana     American hophornbeam (ironwood)
Quercus alba          White oak
Quercus coccinea      Scarlet oak
Quercus ellipsoidalis Hill's oak
Quercus macrocarpa    Bur oak
Quercus rubra         Red oak
Quercus velutina      Black oak
Tilia americana       Linden
 
(Ord. 11-O-67, 12-6-2011; amd. Ord. 17-O-81, 9-19-2017)
4.1A.5: TREE GUIDELINES:
   A.   In order to preserve and enhance the oak and hickory forest natural to
Woodstock and McHenry County, the use of oak and hickory varieties and species
native to McHenry County and the surrounding region is encouraged. Emphasis
should be placed on the planting of a mix of oak and hickory varieties and
native species, along with ornamental and flowering trees.
   B.   Trees planted close to detention or stormwater management facilities or
to natural waterways and water bodies, should be selected in part for their
ability to tolerate hydric soils and conditions. They should not, however, be
located so as to interfere or conflict with public utilities, drainageways, or
the natural flow of water.
   C.   Dangerous trees should be trimmed or removed by the owner of the
property on which the tree grows, at said owner's expense.
   D.   Consistent with good forestry practices, trees installed to replace
dead or dying trees that have been removed, should be of either an equivalent
or superior quality of species. For example, a softwood tree may be replaced
with a hardwood tree, but an inferior species should not be substituted for a
superior species. (Ord. 11-O-67, 12-6-2011; amd. Ord. 17-O-81, 9-19-2017)
4.1A.6: DEAD, DYING, DISEASED AND INFESTED TREES:
   A.   Trees that are dead, dying, or diseased may be considered a safety
hazard and declared to be a public nuisance. Remedial action, including tree
removal, shall be the responsibility of the property owner and shall be at said
property owner's expense.
   B.   Trees or parts thereof infested with or serving as breeding or
harboring places for the emerald ash borer, gypsy moth, Asian longhorned
beetle, or similar invasive species may be considered a nuisance tree.
   C.   The City shall have the right to require the removal of any dead,
dying, diseased or infested tree on private property by said property owner
when such tree constitutes a hazard to life and property, or when such tree
harbors insects or disease which constitutes a potential threat to other trees
in the City and is deemed to be a nuisance tree. The City shall notify the
owner of such tree in writing of the need for its removal and the owner shall
be responsible for removal and any costs incurred as a result. Removal shall
occur no more than thirty (30) days after the date of said written notice. In
the event removal does not occur or an extension of the time within which to
remove the tree is not granted by the City Manager, the City shall have the
right and authority, but not necessarily the obligation, to enter onto any lot
or parcel of land to remove such tree and charge the cost of removal to the
owner. (Ord. 11-O-67, 12-6-2011; amd. Ord. 17-O-81, 9-19-2017)
4.1A.7: CONSTRUCTION PRECAUTIONS:
During building and construction activity, reasonable measures should be taken
to prevent damage to or destruction of existing trees. Such measures shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
   A.   Construction activity and/or placement of equipment or material or
spoils storage should not occur within the drip line of any tree shown on the
approved site engineering, landscape or tree preservation plan approved by the
City. No excess soil, additional fill, liquids, or construction debris should
be placed within the drip line of an existing tree. Exceptions may occur if
absolutely necessary due to the physical constraints of the lot.
   B.   Protective fencing, visual warning markings, or similar measures should
be temporarily installed around the drip line of an existing tree during
building and construction activity. Examples of such measures include wooden
slat snow fencing, orange PVC construction fencing, or yellow caution tape.
   C.   No attachments, fences, or wires, other than those approved for
bracing, guying, wrapping, or other protective purposes should be attached to
existing trees during the construction period.
   D.   Other measures such as mulching, root or crown pruning, construction
pruning, trunk wrapping, directional boring, and fertilization, may be used in
order to protect existing trees.
   E.   Unless otherwise shown on a site engineering, landscape or tree
preservation plan approved by the City, no soil, additional fill, liquids, or
construction debris should be added to or removed from the drip line of an
existing tree. (Ord. 11-O-67, 12-6-2011; amd. Ord. 17-O-81, 9-19-2017)
4.1A.8: ADMINISTRATION AND APPEALS:
   A.   These regulations shall be enforced by the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee.
   B.   A City Tree Committee comprised of the Mayor, City Manager, Deputy City
Manager, and City Forester, or their representatives, is hereby established and
shall be responsible for hearing appeals to the provisions of these regulations
as provided for herein.
   C.   Any property owner in the City, who disagrees with or disputes the
provisions, regulations, standards, and guidelines set forth herein, may appeal
to the City Tree Committee for relief. Such appeal shall be in writing and
heard by the City Tree Committee which, upon reviewing an appeal and making
such investigation as is appropriate, shall render a decision on the appeal.
   D.   Any property owner in the City who disagrees with or disputes the
decision of the City Tree Committee on an appeal shall always have the right of
final appeal to the City Council. Such appeal shall be in writing and heard by
the City Council which, upon reviewing an appeal and making such investigation
as is appropriate, shall render a final decision. (Ord. 11-O-67, 12-6-2011;
amd. Ord. 17-O-81, 9-19-2017)
CHAPTER 2
POLLUTION CONTROL
SECTION:
4.2.1: State EPA Regulations Adopted
4.2.2: Minimum And Maximum Community Water Supply Well Setback Zone Provisions
4.2.1: STATE EPA REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The environmental protection act, as set forth in 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1 et seq., be and the same is hereby adopted as the pollution
control regulations for the city, and said act hereby referred to and adopted
by reference is made a part hereof as if fully set out within this chapter.
Three (3) copies of said act shall be and remain on file in the office of the
city clerk for public inspection. (1986 Code)
4.2.2: MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY WELL SETBACK ZONE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: Pursuant to the authority conferred by 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-125-4 (1996); 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/14.2, and 5/14.3
(1996); 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-4-2 (1996); and in the interest of
securing the public health, safety and welfare; to preserve the quality and
quantity of ground water resources in order to assure a safe and adequate water
supply for present and future generations; and to preserve ground water
resources currently in use and those aquifers having a potential for future use
as a public water supply, the provisions of this section shall apply to all
properties located within the minimum setback zone established under section
14.2 of the environmental protection act ("Act") 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/14.2 (1996) and this section, the maximum setback zone established under
section 14.3 of the act 1  and this section.
   B.   Definitions: Except as stated in this section, and unless a different
meaning of a word or term is clear from the context, the definition of words or
terms in this subsection shall be the same as those used in the act and the
Illinois ground water protection act 2 .
   ACT: The environmental protection act 3 .
   AGENCY: The environmental protection agency.
   BOARD: The Illinois pollution control board.
   MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE: The area around a community water supply well
established under section 14.3 of the act and this section, and as described in
appendix A attached to ordinance 01-0-03 on file in the office of the city
clerk.
   MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE: The area around a community water supply well
established under section 14.2 of the act and this section, and as described in
appendix A attached to ordinance 01-0-03 on file in the office of the city
clerk.
   C.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection D or E of this section, no person
shall place a new potential primary source, new potential secondary source, or
new potential route within the minimum setback zone.
      2.   Except as provided otherwise in subsection D of this section, no
person shall place a new potential primary source within the maximum setback
zone.
   D.   Waivers, Exceptions, And Certification Of Minimal Hazard:
      1.   If, pursuant to section 14.2(b) of the act, the owner of a new
potential primary source, new potential secondary source, or new potential
route is granted a waiver by the agency, such owner shall be deemed to have a
waiver to the same extent from subsection C1 of this section.
      2.   If, pursuant to section 14.2(c) of the act, the owner of a new
potential primary source (other than landfilling or land treating), new
potential secondary source, or new potential route is granted an exception by
the board, such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to the same extent
from subsection C1 of this section.
      3.   If, pursuant to section 14.2(c) of the act, the owner of a new
potential primary source (other than landfilling or land treating) is granted
an exception by the board, such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to
the same extent from subsection C2 of this section.
      4.   If, pursuant to section 14.5 of the act, the owner of a new
potential primary source, new potential secondary source, or new potential
route is issued a certificate of minimal hazard by the agency, such owner shall
not be subject to subsection C1 of this section to the same extent that such
owner is not subject to section 14.2(4) of the act.
   E.   Exclusion: Subsection C1 of this section shall not apply to new common
sources of sanitary pollution as specified pursuant to section 17 of the act
and the regulations adopted thereunder by the agency; however, no such common
sources may be located within the applicable minimum distance from a community
water supply well specified by such regulations. (Ord. 01-0-03, 2-6-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/14.3 (1996).
2 2. 415 ILCS 5/1 (1996).
3 3. 415 ILCS 5/1 (1996).
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4.3.1: Definitions
4.3.2: Cruelty To Animals
4.3.3: Restraint And Confinement; Generally
4.3.4: Restraint Of Guard Dogs
4.3.5: Restraint Of Vicious Or Dangerous Animals
4.3.6: Nuisances
4.3.7: Keeping Of Exotic Animals Or Wild Animals
4.3.8: Keeping Of Numerous Animals
4.3.9: Caring For Animals
4.3.10: Sanitation
4.3.11: Diseased Animals
4.3.12: Animals On The Square
4.3.13: Dog Licenses
4.3.14: Animal Bites
4.3.1: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions found in title 1, chapter 3 of this code, the
following words and phrases shall have the meanings, and are hereby defined, as
follows:
   ANIMAL: Any live creature, both domestic and wild, except humans. "Animal"
includes fowl, fish and reptiles.
   ANIMAL NUISANCE: Any nuisance arising out of the keeping, maintaining or
owning of, or failure to exercise sufficient control of, an animal.
   AT HEEL: A dog is directly behind or next to a person and obedient to that
person's command.
   AT LARGE: An animal is off the premises of the owner, and not on a leash or
otherwise under the immediate control of a person physically capable of
restraining the animal.
   CONTAGIOUS: Any disease communicable by contact.
   CRUELTY: Any act or omission whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering
or death of an animal is caused or permitted, including failure to provide
proper drink, air, space, shelter or protection from the elements, a sanitary
and safe living environment, veterinary care or nutritious food in siphoned
quantity. In the case of activities where physical pain is necessarily caused,
such as medical and scientific research, food processing, customary and normal
veterinary and agricultural husbandry practices, pest elimination, and animal
training and hunting, "cruelty" shall mean a failure to employ the most humane
method reasonably available.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL: Animals raised and/or maintained in confinement such as
dogs, cats, hamsters, rabbits, fish, guinea pigs, rats and mice.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any live monkey, alligator, crocodile, cayman, raccoon,
skunk, fox, bear, sea mammal, poisonous snake, member of the feline species
other than domestic cat (Felis domesticus), member of the canine species other
than domestic dog (Canis familiaris) or any other animal that would require a
standard of care and control greater than that required for domestic farm
animals or customary household pets sold by commercial pet shops.
   FARM ANIMALS: Animals typically found on a farm such as horses, asses,
donkeys, mules, cattle, sheep, goats, swine, fowl (i.e., turkeys, geese,
chickens, ducks) and bison.
   GUARD OR ATTACK DOG: A dog trained to attack on command or to protect
persons or property, and who will cease to attack upon command.
   IMPOUNDMENT: The taking into custody of an animal by an animal control
officer or authorized representative.
   INFECTIOUS: Any disease communicable by infection.
   MUZZLE: A device constructed of strong, soft material or of metal, designed
to fasten over the mouth of an animal to prevent the animal from biting any
person or other animal.
   OWNER: Any person having temporary or permanent custody of, sheltering or
having charge of, harboring, exercising control over, or having property rights
to, any animal covered by this chapter. An animal shall be deemed to be
harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three (3) or more consecutive days.
   PROHIBITED ANIMAL: Any animal except:
   A.   Domestic animals as defined herein and small caged birds or
nonpoisonous aquatic, amphibian or reptilian animals kept solely as pets.
   B.   "Farm animals" as defined herein which shall only be allowed on
properties: 1) zoned A-agriculture pursuant to the Woodstock zoning ordinance,
or 2) approved for such use by an amendment to the Woodstock zoning ordinance,
or 3) issued a special use permit pursuant to the Woodstock zoning ordinance,
or 4) otherwise approved pursuant to city ordinance.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL: Any animal that unreasonably annoys humans,
endangers the life or health of persons or other animals, or substantially
interferes with the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment
of life or property. The term "public nuisance animal" shall include, but not
be limited to:
   A.   Any animal that is repeatedly found running at large;
   B.   Any dog or cat in any section of a park or public recreation area
unless the dog or cat is controlled by a leash or similar physical restraint;
   C.   Any animal that damages, soils, defiles or defecates on any property
other than that of its owner, except as remedied pursuant to subsection
4.3.10A of this chapter;
   D.   Any animal that makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to,
continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing
unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or others in
close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
   E.   Any animal that causes fouling of the air by noxious or offensive odors
and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others
in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
   F.   Any animal in heat that is not confined so as to prevent attraction or
contact with other animals;
   G.   Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that without
provocation, molests, attacks, or otherwise interferes with the freedom of
movement of persons in a public right of way;
   H.   Any animal that chases motor vehicles in a public right of way;
   I.   Any animal that attacks domestic animals;
   J.   Any animal that causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or
surroundings where the animal is kept or harbored;
   K.   Any animal that is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety
or welfare by virtue of the number of animals maintained at a single residence
or the inadequacy of the facilities.
   SANITARY: A condition of good order and cleanliness to minimize the
possibility of disease transmission.
   UNDER RESTRAINT: An animal secured by a leash, lead under the control of a
person physically capable of restraining the animal and obedient to that
person's commands, or securely enclosed within the real property limits of the
owner's premises.
   VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal that attacks, bites, or physically
injures human beings, domestic animals, or livestock without adequate
provocation, or which, because of temperament or training, has a known
propensity to attack, bite, or physically injure human beings, domestic
animals, or livestock. Any wild animal or any animal that without provocation
has bitten or attacked a human being or other animal shall be prima facie
presumed vicious or dangerous.
   WILD ANIMAL: Any live monkey, nonhuman primate, raccoon, skunk, fox,
leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other warm blooded animal that can
normally be found in the wild state. The term "wild animal" does not include:
domestic dogs (excluding hybrids with wolves, coyotes or jackals), domestic
cats (excluding hybrids with ocelots or margays), farm animals, rodents, any
hybrid animal that is part wild, and captive bred species of common cage birds.
(Ord. 01-O-29, 8-7-2001; amd. Ord. 04-O-60, 7-6-2004)
4.3.2: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously strike,
beat, abuse, or intentionally run down with a vehicle any animal, or otherwise
engage in any act to cause or inflict unnecessary pain, injury, suffering or
death to such animal; except that reasonable force may be used to drive away
vicious or trespassing animals.
   B.   No person, except a licensed veterinarian for humanitarian purposes,
shall administer poison to any animal, or knowingly leave any poisonous
substance of any kind or ground glass in any place with the intent to injure
any animal. The provisions of this section are not applicable to licensed
exterminators using poisons as part of a pest control program or the use of
commercial insecticides and rodent baits used to control insects and wild
rodents. (Ord. 01-O-29, 8-7-2001)
   C.   No person or owner shall confine any animal in a motor vehicle in such
a manner that places it in a life or health threatening situation by exposure
to a prolonged period of extreme heat or cold, without proper ventilation or
other protection from such heat or cold.
      1.   In order to protect the health and safety of an animal, a law
enforcement officer who has probable cause to believe that this subsection is
being violated shall have authority to enter such motor vehicle by any
reasonable means under the circumstances after making a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other person responsible. (Ord. 12-O-36, 6-19-2012)
4.3.3: RESTRAINT AND CONFINEMENT; GENERALLY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to fail to keep such
animal under restraint or to permit such animal to run at large upon the
streets and public ways of the city.
   B.   Any dog, while on a street, sidewalk, public way or in any park, or
other public space, or upon any private property without the consent of the
owner, shall be secured by a leash or chain of sufficient tensile strength to
restrain the particular dog or shall be at heel.
   C.   No owner or custodian of any animal shall fail to exercise proper care
and control of such animal to prevent the same from becoming a public nuisance.
   D.   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in such a manner that such female dog or cat cannot come into
contact with another animal except for planned breeding. (Ord. 01-O-29, 8-7-
2001)
4.3.4: RESTRAINT OF GUARD DOGS:
   A.   Every owner of a guard or attack dog shall keep such dog confined in a
building, compartment or other enclosure of adequate stature to hold such dog
or on sufficient chain to restrain such dog.
   B.   The areas of confinement shall all have gates and entrances thereto
securely closed and locked, and all fences properly maintained and escape
proof.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs owned or
controlled by government law enforcement agencies. (Ord. 01-O-29, 8-7-2001)
4.3.5: RESTRAINT OF VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
Every vicious or dangerous animal shall be confined by its owner or authorized
agent of its owner within a building or secure enclosure and, whenever off the
premises of its owner, shall be securely muzzled and restrained with a chain
having a minimum tensile strength of three hundred (300) pounds and not more
than three feet (3') in length, or caged. Every person harboring a vicious or
dangerous animal is charged with an affirmative duty to confine the animal in
such a way that children do not have access to such animal. (Ord. 01-O-29, 8-7-
2001)
4.3.6: NUISANCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any animal on any property located
within the corporate limits of the city when the keeping of such animal
constitutes a public nuisance or menace to public health or safety. No person
shall be charged with an offense under this section unless such animal on a
previous occasion has perpetrated such a nuisance, as aforesaid, and written
notice thereof was given to the owner or keeper. The written notice shall have:
   A.   Named the owner or keeper of said animal.
   B.   Stated the address where said animal is kept.
   C.   Stated the date and approximate time when said animal perpetrated the
nuisance of disturbance or menace.
   D.   Stated the name and address of the person or persons adversely
affected.
   E.   Was served by personal service on the owner or keeper of said animal or
by registered or certified mail.
   F.   Was served not less than five (5) days nor more than six (6) months
before a person may be charged with an offense under this section.
This section shall not operate to provide for an offense herein under
circumstances when such animal could be normally expected to make a noise, such
as a dog barking at the approach of strangers, or when an animal is alarmed or
disturbed by unusual circumstances. (Ord. 01-O-29, 8-7-2001)
4.3.7: KEEPING OF EXOTIC ANIMALS OR WILD ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to own, harbor, or permit at large any exotic
animal or wild animal without obtaining a written permit granted by the city
council. Such permit shall be granted only if it is demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the council that the animal will not constitute a threat to
public health or safety.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as to preclude the following:
   A.   The exhibition of domesticated animals or farm animals at a fair or
other event held for the purpose of displaying said animals for judging or
exhibition of animal husbandry;
   B.   The exhibition or display of any animals under the direct auspices of
any public or any private school located within the city, provided said
exhibition or display is for educational purposes only and no admission is
charged;
   C.   The exhibition or display in the ordinary course of business of a pet
shop within the premises identified in the applicable business license, which
premises shall not include any space on the exterior of the store premises or
any space within the common area of a mall or shopping center or strip shopping
center;
   D.   Veterinarians, in the ordinary course of their business;
   E.   Mobile appearances by the humane society; and
   F.   The use, display or exhibition of any animal pursuant to a special use
permit issued by the city council. Requests for such permits shall be made to
the city manager who shall cause the request to be placed on the next available
city council agenda. (Ord. 01-O-29, 8-7-2001)
4.3.8: KEEPING OF NUMEROUS ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep dogs, cats or other animals within
the city, except a litter of pups, kittens or other young animals not exceeding
five (5) months from birth, in such large numbers as may be reasonably
construed to be a threat to the health and well being of the animals or a
threat to public health or safety. This section shall not apply to any
establishment where animals are kept for breeding, sale, sporting purposes or
boarding. (Ord. 01-O-29, 8-7-2001)
4.3.9: CARING FOR ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any animal to refuse
or fail to provide such animal with sufficient wholesome and nutritious food,
potable water, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, humane care
and treatment, or to unnecessarily expose any such animal in hot, stormy, cold
or inclement weather.
   B.   No owner or custodian of any animal shall wilfully abandon such animal
on any street, road, highway or public place, or on private property when not
in the care of another person. (Ord. 01-O-29, 8-7-2001)
4.3.10: SANITATION:
   A.   No owner or custodian of any animal shall cause or allow such animal to
soil, defile or defecate on any public property or upon any street, sidewalk,
public way, play area or common grounds owned jointly by the members of a
homeowners' or condominium association, or upon private property other than
that of the owner, unless such owner or custodian immediately removes and
disposes of all feces deposited by such animal by the following methods:
      1.   Collection of the feces by appropriate implement and placement in a
paper or plastic bag or other container; and
      2.   Removal of such bag or container to the property of the animal owner
or custodian and disposition thereafter in a manner as otherwise may be
permitted by law.
   B.   No person owning, harboring or keeping an animal within the city shall
permit any waste matter from the animal to collect and remain on the property
of the owner or custodian, or on the property of others so as to cause or
create an unhealthy, unsanitary, dangerous or offensive living condition on the
owner's or custodian's property, or to abutting property of others.
   C.   No person owning, harboring, keeping or in charge of any animal shall
cause unsanitary, dangerous or offensive conditions by virtue of the size or
number of animals maintained at a single location or due to the inadequacy of
the facilities. (Ord. 01-O-29, 8-7-2001)
4.3.11: DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   No person who knows or reasonably should know shall permit an animal
afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease to enter any public place or
area whereby the public health may be affected.
   B.   No diseased animal shall be shipped or removed from the premises of the
owner except under the supervision of a county animal control officer or the
state veterinarian.
   C.   No person who knows or reasonably should know that an animal has a
contagious or infectious disease shall allow that animal to be brought into or
remain in the city except for the purpose of obtaining veterinary care for the
animal.
   D.   The county animal control officer shall secure the disposition of any
diseased animal and effect the treatment of affected premises so as to prevent
the communication and spread of any contagion or infection transmitted by
animals, except in cases where the state veterinarian is empowered to act.
(Ord. 01-O-29, 8-7-2001)
4.3.12: ANIMALS ON THE SQUARE:
Except as permitted in section
4.3.7 of this chapter, no person shall at any time walk, take, bring or
otherwise permit any animal in the park in the square, located within the
geographical area defined by Cass Street on the north, Johnson Street on the
west, Van Buren Street on the south and Benton Street on the east. Dogs
assisting physically challenged persons (i.e., sight impaired, hearing
impaired) shall be permitted.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as to preclude the following:
   A.   The exhibition or display of animals at Groundhog Day events, Dick
Tracy Day events, Harvest Fest events, any other city or chamber of commerce
sponsored event, or any city permitted event; and
   B.   The use of horsedrawn carriages for weddings or other celebrations,
including, but not limited to, Christmas events on the square, provided said
horses are not stabled within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 01-O-29,
8-7-2001)
4.3.13: DOG LICENSES:
No person shall permit a dog to be or remain in the city without being
registered and licensed by the McHenry County health department. The
registrations and licensing rules of McHenry County shall prevail. In no case
shall a dog that has not been inoculated after the age of sixteen (16) weeks
against rabies be allowed to be or remain in the city. (Ord. 01-O-29, 8-7-2001)
4.3.14: ANIMAL BITES:
Whenever a dog or other animal bites a person, the owner of the animal shall
immediately notify the McHenry County animal control officer who shall deliver
written notice to the owner ordering that the animal be held on the owner's
premises or that the animal will be impounded for a period of two (2) weeks.
Additionally, the animal shall be examined immediately by a licensed
veterinarian to determine whether or not the animal is a carrier of any
contagious or infectious disease. (Ord. 01-O-29, 8-7-2001)
CHAPTER 4
FIRE PREVENTION
SECTION:
4.4.1: Fire Prevention Code Adopted
4.4.2: Fire Inspector
4.4.3: Functions Of The Fire Inspector
4.4.4: Reserved
4.4.5: Buildings
4.4.6: Inspection Of Buildings
4.4.7: Fire Drills
4.4.8: Removal Of Fire Apparatus
4.4.9: Reserved
4.4.10: False Fire Alarms
4.4.10.1: Definitions
4.4.10.2: Installation, Operation And Maintenance Standards
4.4.10.3: False Fire Alarm Service Charge; Civil Liability (Rep. by Ord. 2438,
10-5-1993)
4.4.10.4: Liability Of City Limited
4.4.1: FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED:
The regulations contained in section
7.1.14 of this code, including all appendices, amendments, and supplements
thereto, shall comprise the fire prevention code of the city. (Ord. 03-0-45, 6-
17-2003)
4.4.2: FIRE INSPECTOR:
There is hereby established the position of fire inspector who shall be
appointed by the city manager as provided by law. (1986 Code)
4.4.3: FUNCTIONS OF THE FIRE INSPECTOR:
The fire inspector shall:
   A.   Review all construction plans for compliance with current fire code
regulations.
   B.   Conduct inspections of all buildings located within the city limits
other than one- and two-family dwelling units and individual dwelling units of
apartments or condominium buildings.
   C.   Periodically inspect construction sites to ensure that fire and life
safety features have been installed according to approved plans.
   D.   Approve all fire and life safety equipment and devices which are
installed within buildings.
   E.   Perform such other duties as may be assigned to him from time to time
by the building and zoning officer or the city manager. (1986 Code)
4.4.4: RESERVED:
(Ord. 06-0-51, 6-20-2006)
4.4.5: BUILDINGS:
   A.   The planning, design and construction of new buildings and structures
to provide the necessary egress facilities, fire protection, and built in fire
protection equipment shall be controlled by the building code of the city 1 ;
and any alterations, additions or changes in buildings required by the
provisions of the fire prevention code of the city which are within the scope
of the building code shall be made in accordance therewith. (1986 Code; amd.
Ord. 03-0-45, 6-17-2003)
   B.   The provisions of this section shall apply equally to new and existing
buildings and conditions, as hereinafter provided, except that existing
conditions not in strict compliance with the requirements of this code may be
permitted to continue where the exceptions do not constitute a distinct hazard
to life or property in the opinion of the fire chief. (1986 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 1 of this code.
4.4.6: INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS:
The fire inspector shall inspect all structures and premises except single-
family dwellings, and dwelling units in two- family and multi-family dwellings
as often as may be necessary for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be
corrected any conditions liable to cause fire, contribute to the spread of
fire, interfere with the firefighting operations, endanger life, or any
violations of the provisions or intent of this code or any other ordinance
affecting fire safety. (1986 Code)
4.4.7: FIRE DRILLS:
   A.   Fire drills shall be held in buildings and parts thereof, when of
educational and institutional occupancies.
   B.   Fire drills shall be held at least once a month in educational
occupancies and at least once every three (3) months on each work shift in
institutional occupancies. During severe weather, fire drills may be postponed.
   C.   A record of all fire drills shall be kept on the premises and persons
in charge of such occupancies shall file written reports at least twice a year
with the fire chief, giving the following information:
      1.   Time and date of drill.
      2.   Weather conditions when occupants are evacuated.
      3.   Number of occupants evacuated.
      4.   Total time for evacuation. (1986 Code)
4.4.8: REMOVAL OF FIRE APPARATUS:
No person shall remove from its proper place any fire apparatus or appliance
except for inspection or in case of emergency. (1963 Code, §34.11)
4.4.9: RESERVED:
(Ord. 09-0-24, 4-21-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
4.4.10: FALSE FIRE ALARMS:
4.4.10.1: DEFINITIONS:
   FALSE FIRE ALARM: An alarm signal which indicates the existence of an
emergency situation, when in fact no such emergency exists, and shall include
any alarm signal generated by any fire protection system by whatever means, but
shall not include alarms resulting from any of the following causes:
   A.   Fire causing structural damage to the protected premises verified by
the city;
   B.   Earthquake causing structural damage to the protected premises;
   C.   Tornado or hurricane winds causing structural damage to the protected
premises;
   D.   Flooding to the protected premises due to overflow of natural drainage;
   E.   Lightning causing physical damage to the protected premises;
   F.   Telephone line malfunction verified to the city by an authorized
telephone company supervisor within seven (7) days of the occurrence;
   G.   Electrical service interruption verified to the city by the local power
company manager within seven (7) days of the occurrence; and
   H.   Plumbing or electrical malfunctions unrelated to the fire protection
system.
   FIRE ALARM USER: The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind in control of any building, structure or
facility or portion thereof wherein a fire protection system is maintained.
   FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM: Any fire alarm device or system, or their
combination, which is designed and installed for detecting, controlling or
extinguishing a fire or otherwise alerting occupants, the city, or both, that a
fire has occurred. (Ord. 2219, 10-17-1989)
4.4.10.2: INSTALLATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
The installation, operation, maintenance and inspection of any fire protection
equipment shall be pursuant to the state statute and the fire prevention code
of the city. (Ord. 2219, 10-17-1989; amd. Ord. 03-0-45, 6-17-2003)
4.4.10.3: FALSE FIRE ALARM SERVICE CHARGE; CIVIL LIABILITY:
(Rep. by Ord. 2438, 10-5-1993)
4.4.10.4: LIABILITY OF CITY LIMITED:
The city assumes no liability for:
   A.   Any defects in the operation of an alarm system;
   B.   Failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon receipt of an alarm;
   C.   Failure or neglect of any person in connection with the installation,
operation or maintenance of any alarm system; and
   D.   The transmission of alarm signals, prerecorded alarm messages, or the
relaying of such signals and messages. (Ord. 2219, 10-17-1989)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
4.5.1: General Provisions
4.5.2: Definitions
4.5.3: Responsibilities Of Owners And Occupants
4.5.4: Minimum Heat Standards In Leased Dwellings
4.5.5: Minimum Standards For Basic Equipment And Facilities
4.5.6: General Requirements For The Maintenance Of A Dwelling Or Dwelling Unit
4.5.7: Enforcement And Penalties
4.5.1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Title: The title of these regulations shall be known and may be cited
as the RESIDENTIAL MAINTENANCE CODE OF THE CITY OF WOODSTOCK, hereinafter
referred to as "this chapter".
   B.   Purposes: The purpose of this chapter is to protect, preserve, and
promote the physical and mental health and social well being of the people,
insofar as they are affected by the occupancy and maintenance of residential
structures and premises. It is intended to ensure that the quality of housing
is adequate for the protection of public health, safety and general welfare,
including safety from fire and accidents, the provision of an adequate level of
maintenance, the determination of responsibilities of owners, operators, and
occupants of dwellings, and the provision for the administration and
enforcement thereof.
   C.   Scope: The provisions of these regulations shall apply uniformly to the
construction, maintenance, use and occupancy of all residential buildings and
structures within the city of Woodstock, regardless of when and under what code
or codes such buildings or structures were originally constructed, remodeled or
rehabilitated. (Ord. 13-O-54, 10-15-2013)
4.5.2: DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this chapter, the definitions contained below shall be
observed and applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words used in the
singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural, the singular.
The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and not discretionary; and the word
"may" is permissive; and the word "lot" shall include the words "plot",
"piece", and "parcel". The word "person" shall include the words "association",
"corporation", "estate", "governmental agency", "individual", "joint venture",
"partnership", "venture", or any other legal entity; the word "building" shall
include the word "structure", the phrase "used for" shall include the phrases
"arranged for", "designed for", "intended for", "maintained for", and "occupied
for"; and the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter. Words not
specifically defined herein shall have the common definition set forth in a
standard dictionary.
   ASHES: The residue from the burning of combustible materials.
   BUILDING: A structure with substantial walls and a roof, securely affixed to
the land, entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or
by walls in which there are no communication doors, windows, or openings, and
which is designed or intended for the enclosure, shelter or protection of
persons, animals or other property. The term "building" includes both the
aboveground and the belowground portions of the structure. A "principal
building" is a building which accommodates the main use of the zoning lot on
which it is situated.
   BULK CONTAINER: Any metal or plastic garbage, rubbish, and/or refuse
container having a capacity of two (2) or more cubic yards and which is
equipped with fittings for hydraulic and/or mechanical emptying, unloading,
and/or removal.
   DILAPIDATED: In a state of deterioration, disrepair, decay, or full/partial
ruin as a result of age, neglect, or misuse and no longer adequate for the
purpose or use for which it was originally intended.
   DWELLING: A building or portion thereof resting on a foundation, designed
and used or intended to be used exclusively for residential occupancy,
including single-family, two-family, townhome or row house, apartment, and
multiple-family uses, but not including hotels, motels, lodging houses, or
similar uses.
   LEAD BASED PAINT: Any paint containing more lead than the level established
by the United States consumer product safety commission as being the "safe"
level of lead in residential paint and paint products.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING: Any dwelling containing two (2) or more dwelling units.
   REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid waste (except bodily waste)
that contains organic matter capable of being decomposed by microorganisms and
of such character and proportion as to cause obnoxious odors and to be capable
of attracting or providing food for animals, including garbage, rubbish, ashes,
and deceased animals.
   REFUSE CONTAINER: A watertight container that is constructed of metal or
other durable material impervious to rodents, that is capable of being serviced
without creating unsanitary conditions, or such other containers as have been
approved by the city. The term "refuse container" may also include garbage
container. Openings into the container shall be covered with tightfitting
covers and/or doors.
   RODENT HARBORAGE: Any place where rodents live, nest, or seek shelter, or
conditions which support such an environment.
   RODENTPROOFING: A form of construction which will prevent the ingress or
egress of rodents to or from a given space or building, or from gaining access
to food, water, or harborage. Rodentproofing consists of the closing and
keeping closed of all openings in foundations, basements, cellars, exterior and
interior walls, ground or first floors, roofs, sidewalk grates and openings,
and other places that rodents can use for ingress and egress by climbing,
burrowing, and other methods, by the use of materials and techniques impervious
to rodent gnawing and other methods approved by the building inspector.
   SAFETY: The condition of being reasonably free from danger and hazards which
may cause accidents or disease.
   TOXIC: Any chemical effect or substance or product which constitutes a
potential hazard to human health at acute or chronic exposure levels. (Ord. 13-
O-54, 10-15-2013)
4.5.3: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS:
   A.   No owner or other person shall occupy or let to another any dwelling or
dwelling unit unless it and the premises are clean, sanitary, fit for human
occupancy, and in compliance with all other applicable legal requirements of
the city.
   B.   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall maintain in a clean
and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit, and premises
thereof that they occupy.
   C.   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall store and dispose
of all garbage, refuse, rubbish, and any other organic waste which might
provide food for insects and/or rodents in a clean, sanitary, and safe manner.
All garbage and refuse containers shall be rodentproof, insectproof,
watertight, structurally strong to withstand handling stress, and easily
filled, emptied, and cleaned; shall be provided with tightfitting covers or
similar enclosures; and shall be maintained at all times in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   D.   Every owner of a multiple dwelling shall maintain in a clean and
sanitary condition any shared or public area of the dwelling and premises
thereof; every occupant shall refrain from any conduct which contributes to the
uncleanliness or unsanitary conditions of such shared or public area.
   E.   Every owner of a multiple dwelling containing three (3) or more
dwelling units shall supply facilities or refuse containers for the sanitary
and safe storage and/or disposal of rubbish and garbage. In the case of single-
or two-family dwellings, it shall be the responsibility of each occupant to
furnish such facilities or refuse containers.
   F.   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be
responsible for such extermination of any infestation whenever his dwelling
unit is the only one infested. Notwithstanding the foregoing language, whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a
rodentproof or reasonably insectproof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two (2) or more
units of the dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any multiple
dwelling, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   G.   No occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit or owner of a multiple
dwelling shall accumulate rubbish, boxes, lumber, scrap metal, or any other
materials in such a manner that may provide a rodent harborage in or about any
dwelling, dwelling unit, or the shared or public areas of a dwelling or its
premises.
   H.   No owner or occupant of a dwelling unit shall store, place, or let
accumulate any materials which may serve as food for rodents in a site
accessible to rodents.
   I.   No owner or occupant shall apply a lead based paint to any surface in
any dwelling or dwelling unit. (Ord. 13-O-54, 10-15-2013)
4.5.4: MINIMUM HEAT STANDARDS IN LEASED DWELLINGS:
The owner of every dwelling or dwelling unit leased for residential purposes
shall cause such premises to be heated between September 15 through June 1, as
follows:
   A.   Between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:
00) P.M. to a minimum temperature of sixty five degrees Fahrenheit (65°F) in
all habitable rooms, bathrooms, water closets, recreation rooms, and laundries
at a distance of thirty six inches (36") above floor level near the center of
the room and two feet (2') inward from the center of each exterior wall.
   B.   Between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. to a minimum of sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F) in all habitable
rooms, bathrooms, water closets, recreation rooms, and laundries at a distance
of thirty six inches (36") above floor level near the center of the room and
two feet (2') inward from the center of each exterior wall.
   C.   Failure to furnish heat as required herein shall not constitute a
violation where it is due to a failure of the heating mechanism, if due
diligence is used to have such heating mechanism repaired (unless such failure
has been caused by a violation of this chapter), nor where it is due to a
general shortage of fuel, any act of the tenant, or to any cause beyond the
owner's control. (Ord. 13-O-54, 10-15-2013)
4.5.5: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES:
No person shall occupy as owner or let to another any dwelling or dwelling
unit, for the purposes of living, sleeping, cooking or eating therein, which
does not comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Every dwelling unit shall have a room or portion thereof in which food
may be prepared and/or cooked, which shall have adequate circulation, and which
shall be equipped with the following:
      1.   A kitchen sink in good working order and properly connected to a
water supply system approved by the city, and which provides an adequate amount
of heated and unheated running water under pressure, and which is connected to
a sanitary sewer system.
      2.   Cabinets and/or shelves for the storage of eating, drinking, and
cooking equipment and utensils and of food that does not under ordinary
conditions require refrigeration for safekeeping, and a counter or table for
food preparation. Said cabinets and/or shelves and counter or table shall be of
sound construction with surfaces that are easily cleanable and that will not
impart any toxic or harmful effect to food.
      3.   A stove or similar device for cooking food and a refrigerator or
similar device for the safe storage of food at temperatures of below forty five
degrees Fahrenheit (45°F) and above thirty three degrees Fahrenheit (33°F),
which are properly installed for safe, sanitary, and efficient operation. Such
devices need not be installed when: a) a dwelling unit is not occupied, b) the
occupant is expected to provide same upon occupancy, and c) sufficient space
and adequate connections for safe and efficient installation and operation of
said stove, refrigerator, and/or similar devices are provided.
   B.   Within every dwelling unit there shall be a nonhabitable room which
provides privacy and is equipped with a flush water closet in good working
condition. Said flush water closet shall be equipped with easily cleanable
surfaces, be connected to a water system that at all times provides an adequate
amount of running water under pressure and causes the water closet to operate
properly, and is properly connected to a sanitary sewer system.
   C.   Within every dwelling unit there shall be a lavatory sink. Said
lavatory sink may be in the same room as the flush water closet or, if located
within another room, located in close proximity to the door leading directly
into the room in which the water closet is located. The lavatory sink shall be
in good working condition and properly connected to a water supply system and
which at all times provides an adequate amount of heated and unheated running
water under pressure, and is properly connected to a sanitary sewer. Water
inlets for lavatory sinks shall be located above the rim of these facilities.
   D.   Within every dwelling unit there shall be a nonhabitable room which
provides privacy and is equipped with a bathtub or shower in good working
condition. Said bathtub or shower may be in the same room as the flush water
closet or in another room and shall be properly connected to a water supply
system and which at all times provides an adequate amount of heated and
unheated running water under pressure, and is properly connected to a sanitary
sewer system. Water inlets for bathtubs shall be located above the rim of these
fixtures. (Ord. 13-O-54, 10-15-2013)
4.5.6: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR THE MAINTENANCE OF A DWELLING OR DWELLING UNIT:
No person shall occupy as owner or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit, for the purposes of living therein, which does not comply with
the following requirements:
   A.   Every foundation, roof, floor, exterior, and interior wall, ceiling,
inside and outside stair, every porch, and every appurtenance thereto, shall be
safe to use and capable of supporting the loads that normal use may cause to be
placed thereon; and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair. Every
inside and outside stair or step shall have uniform risers and uniform treads.
   B.   Where required, gutters, leaders, and downspouts shall be provided and
maintained in good working condition so as to provide proper drainage of
stormwater.
   C.   Every dwelling, multiple dwelling, or accessory structure and the
premises on which they are located shall be maintained in a rodent free and
rodentproof condition.
      1.   All openings in the exterior walls, foundations, basements, ground
or first floors which have a one-half inch (1/2") diameter or more opening,
shall be rodentproofed in an approved manner if they are within forty eight
inches (48") of the existing exterior ground level immediately below such
openings, or if they may be reached by rodents from the ground by climbing
unguarded pipes, wires, cornices, stairs, roofs, and other items such as trees
or vines or by burrowing.
      2.   All windows and openings located at or near ground level, including
exterior doorways, shall be supplied with adequate screens or other devices so
as to effectively prevent the entrance of rodents into the structure.
      3.   All sewers, pipes, drains, and conduits, and any openings around
them shall be constructed to prevent the ingress or egress of rodents to or
from a structure.
      4.   Interior floors of basements, cellars, and other areas in contact
with soil shall be rodentproofed in an approved manner.
      5.   Materials stored outside of a dwelling shall be stacked and elevated
so as to prevent the creation of a rodent harborage area.
   D.   All fences shall be constructed in accordance with the city's fence
regulations and shall be maintained in good condition and not serve as a
harborage for rodents. Any fence that is painted shall be painted with lead
free paint.
   E.   Accessory structures existing or provided by the owner, agent, or
tenant occupant on the premises of a dwelling shall be structurally sound, and
shall be maintained in good repair and free of insects and rodents, or such
structures shall be removed from the premises. The exterior of such structures
shall be made weather resistant and decay resistant through the use of
appropriate materials and/or the use of lead free paint or other preservatives.
   F.   Every plumbing fixture and all water and waste pipes shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition.
   G.   Every water closet compartment, bathroom, and kitchen floor surface
shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water
and so as to permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   H.   No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment or utility required by this chapter to be removed, shut off, or
discontinued for any occupied dwelling or dwelling unit, except for such
temporary interruption as may be necessary when repairs or alterations are in
progress, or during temporary emergencies when a discontinuance of service is
required.
   I.   No person having personal management or control of residential real
estate, whether as legal or equitable owner of said real estate or as a
managing agent or otherwise, shall knowingly allow, through gross carelessness
or neglect, the physical condition or facilities of such residential real
estate to become or remain so deteriorated that the health, welfare or safety
of any inhabitant or other person is endangered or otherwise adversely affected
thereby. (Ord. 13-O-54, 10-15-2013)
4.5.7: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
The director of the department of community and economic development, or
designee, shall serve as the building official and shall enforce all provisions
of this chapter. Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to the fines and penalties set forth in section
1.4.1 of this code. If any person receiving a citation for violating any
provision of this chapter fails to pay, settle or adjust the fine specified
therein, then adjudication procedures may be initiated in accordance with title
1, chapter 7, article L of this code or with a court of competent jurisdiction,
and such processes as necessary shall commence. (Ord. 13-O-54, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 6
MISDEMEANOR OFFENSES
SECTION:
4.6.1: Disorderly Conduct
4.6.1.1: False Fire Alarms
4.6.1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
No person shall commit disorderly conduct. As stated in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/26-1, a person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   A.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another
and to provoke a breach of the peace.
   B.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for believing
that such an offense has been committed.
   C.   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful purpose
deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window or other
opening in such dwelling.
   D.   Transmits a false report to the department of children and family
services under section 4 of the "abused and neglected child reporting act" 1 .
   E.   While acting as a collection agency as defined in the "collection
agency act" 2  or as an employee of such collection agency, and while
attempting to collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged
debtor which is designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor.
Violation of this subsection is a business offense and shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed three thousand dollars ($3,000.00). (1986 Code)
   F.   Hunts, hunts for, shoots or attempts to shoot any game, animal or fowl
or live creature within the corporate limits of the city.
   G.   Discharges any shotgun, rifle, pellet gun, paint gun, BB gun, or any
other kind or type of firearm within the corporate limits of the city, except
as a member of a shooting, firearm or sports club approved by the city council.
   H.   Fights, or starts to fight in any public place in the corporate limits
of the city, except in boxing or wrestling exhibitions duly authorized and
licensed by law. (Ord. 2204, 8-15-1989)
   I.   Uses a loudspeaker, amplifier, public address system or similar device
for producing or reproducing sound within or adjacent to business districts or
within public space if the sound is plainly audible across the real property
line of the space from which the sound emanates, and is unreasonably loud. This
shall not apply to any public performance or gathering occurring on the
bandstand in the Park In The Square, parades, or any other location for which
permission has been obtained from the city. (Ord. 15-O-63, 10-20-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 325 ILCS 5/4.
2 2. 225 ILCS 425/1 et seq.
4.6.1.1: FALSE FIRE ALARMS:
Any person, firm or corporation transmitting more than five (5) false fire
alarms in any continuous twelve (12) month period by reason of a lack of
required maintenance to a fire protection system, resulting from any test,
repair, alteration or addition to a fire protection system, shall be guilty of
disorderly conduct for each subsequent false fire alarm. Any person who
violates the provisions of this section, otherwise than knowingly or as
described in the Illinois criminal code, section 26-1(a)(2) shall be fined not
less than thirty five dollars ($35.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2219, 10-17-1989)
CHAPTER 7
MINORS
SECTION:
4.7.1: Curfew
4.7.2: Wilful Or Malicious Injury; Parental Responsibility
4.7.1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions are applicable to this section:
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances for the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN: A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR: A person less than seventeen (17) years of age.
   OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   PARENT: A person who is: 1) a natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent
or another person; or 2) at least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by
a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   REMAIN: To linger or stay; or fail to leave premises when requested to do so
by a police officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the
premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   B.   Curfew Hours: Except as provided in subsection C of this section, it is
unlawful for any person less than seventeen (17) years of age to be present at,
in or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway at the
following times:
      1.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. Saturday;
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. Sunday; and
      3.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday through Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   C.   Exceptions: The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the
operation of the curfew:
      1.   At any time when accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person responsible for or having the legal care, custody and control of
the individual, or an authorized adult;
      2.   If participating in, going to or returning from, without any detour
or stop:
         a.   An "emergency" as defined herein;
         b.   Lawful employment;
         c.   Attending an official school, religious or other social or
recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a unit of
government, civic organization or other similar entity that takes
responsibility for the attendees;
         d.   An errand at the direction of a parent or guardian;
         e.   An activity involving the exercise of first amendment rights
protected by the United States constitution (or those similar rights protected
by the state of Illinois constitution), such as free exercise of religion,
freedom of speech and the right of assembly.
      3.   Is married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of mature minors act 1 , as amended.
      4.   If in a motor vehicle, while traveling through the corporate limits
of the city, without any detour or stop, when the travel begins and ends
outside the corporate limits of the city.
   D.   Establishments: The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment
commits an offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours or fails to promptly notify
the police department that a minor is present on the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours and refuses to leave.
   E.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
police officer shall ask the suspected offender's age and reason for being in
the public place or on the premises. The police officer shall not issue a
citation or make an arrest under this section unless the police officer
reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on any
response and other circumstances, no exception in subsection C of this section
applies. (Ord. 04-O-30, 4-6-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
4.7.2: WILFUL OR MALICIOUS INJURY; PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires, the terms specified have the meanings as follows:
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
circuit court of the state, but does not include a person appointed guardian or
given custody of a minor under the "juvenile court act" 1 .
   MINOR: A person who is above the age of eleven (11) years but not yet
eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 1344, 2-15-1977; amd. 1986 Code)
   B.   Minor Causing Damage: It shall be unlawful for any minor to cause
damages to either person or property by a wilful or malicious act. (Ord. 1344,
2-15-1977)
   C.   Parent Or Guardian Liable: The parent or legal guardian of an
unemancipated minor, who engages in a wilful or malicious act which causes
injury to a person or property in the city and who resides with such parent or
guardian, shall be subject to the fines and penalties set forth in section
1.4.1 of this code. If such parent or guardian receiving a citation for
violating any provision of this chapter fails to pay, settle or adjust the fine
specified herein, then adjudication procedures may be initiated in accordance
with title 1, chapter 7, article L of this code or with a court of competent
jurisdiction, and such processes as necessary shall commence. (Ord. 09-O-24, 4-
21-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
   D.   Fine: In determining the fine to be imposed for a violation of this
section, the actual cost of repair of damaged property or the medical, dental
or hospital expenses incurred for personal injury only, may be considered.
   E.   Common Law: This section shall not affect the recovery of damages in
any other cause of action where the liability of the parent or legal guardian
is predicated upon a common law basis. (Ord. 1344, 2-15-1977)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC NUDITY
SECTION:
4.8.1: Intent
4.8.2: Definitions
4.8.3: Legislative Findings
4.8.4: Nudity Prohibited In Public Places
4.8.5: Exemptions
4.8.6: Enforcement And Penalties
4.8.1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this Chapter to protect and preserve the health, safety,
welfare and morals of the citizens of the City by prohibiting a person from
intentionally or recklessly appearing or being nude, or causing another person
to appear to be nude, in a public place and in other places which may
reasonably be expected to be observed by the public within the City except as
herein provided. (Ord. 98-0-18, 4-7-1998)
4.8.2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
   BREAST: A portion of the human female mammary gland (commonly referred to as
the female breast) including the nipple and areola (the darker colored area of
the breast surrounding the nipple) and an outside area of such gland wherein
such outside area is: a) reasonably compact and contiguous to the areola; and
b) contains at least the nipple and the areola and one- fourth (1/4) of the
outside surface area of such gland.
   BUTTOCKS: The area at the rear of the human body (sometimes referred to as
the gluteus maximus) which lies between two (2) imaginary straight lines
running parallel to the ground when a person is standing, the first or top such
line being one-half inch (1/2") below the top of the vertical cleavage of the
nates (i.e., the prominence formed by the muscles running from the back of the
hip to the back of the leg) and the second or bottom such line being one-half
inch (1/2") above the lowest point of the curvature of the fleshly protuberance
(sometimes referred to as the gluteal fold), and between two (2) imaginary
straight lines, one on each side of the body (the "outside lines"), which
outside lines are perpendicular to the ground and to the horizontal lines
described above and which perpendicular outside lines pass through the
outermost point(s) at which each nate meets the outer side of each leg.
Notwithstanding the above, buttocks shall not include the leg, the hamstring
muscle below the gluteal fold, the tensor fasciae latae muscle or any of the
above described portion of the human body that is between either: a) the left
outside perpendicular line and the left outside perpendicular line, or b) the
right inside perpendicular line and the right outside perpendicular line. For
the purpose of the previous sentence the left inside perpendicular line shall
be an imaginary straight line on the left side of the anus: a) that is
perpendicular to the ground and to the horizontal lines described above, and b)
that is one-third (1/3) of the distance from the anus to the right outside
line. (The above description can generally be described as covering one-third
(1/3) of the buttocks centered over the cleavage for the length of the
cleavage.)
   ENTITY: Any proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association, business
trust, joint venture, joint-stock company or other for-profit and/or not-for-
profit organization.
   NUDE: Any person insufficiently clothed in any manner so that any of the
following body parts are not entirely covered with a fully opaque covering:
   A.   The male or female genitals; or
   B.   The male or female pubic area; or
   C.   The female breast; or
   D.   The buttocks. Attire which is insufficient to comply with this
requirement includes, but is not limited to, G-strings, T-backs, and thongs.
Body paint, body dyes, tattoos, liquid latex whether wet or dried, and similar
substances shall not be considered opaque covering. Each female person may
determine which one-fourth (1/4) of her breast surface area (see definition of
breast) contiguous to and containing the nipple and the areola is to be
covered.
   PERSON: Any live human being aged ten (10) years of age or older.
   PLACES PROVIDED OR SET APART FOR NUDITY: Enclosed single sex public
restrooms, enclosed single sex functional shower, locker and/or dressing room
facilities, enclosed motel rooms and hotel rooms designed and intended for
sleeping accommodations, doctor's offices, portions of hospitals, and similar
places in which nudity or exposure is necessarily and customarily expected
outside of the home and the sphere of privacy constitutionally protected
therein. This term shall not be deemed to include places where a person's
conduct of being nude is used for the promotion of business or is otherwise
commercially exploited.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any location frequented by the public, or where the public is
present or likely to be present, or where a person may reasonably be expected
to be observed by members of the public. Public places include, but are not
limited to, streets, sidewalks, parks, beaches, business and commercial
establishments (whether for-profit or not-for-profit and whether open to the
public at large or where entrance is limited by cover charge or membership
requirement); bottle clubs; hotels; motels; restaurants; nightclubs; country
clubs; cabarets; meeting facilities utilized by any religious, social,
fraternal or similar organization. A premises, or portion thereof such as a
hotel room, used solely as a private residence, whether permanent or temporary
in nature, shall not be deemed to be a public place. (Ord. 98-0-18, 4-7-1998)
4.8.3: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS:
In addition and supplemental to the findings and determinations contained in
this Chapter, which are incorporated by reference into this Section, it is
hereby found by the City Council, acting in its legislative capacity for the
purpose of regulating the conduct of appearing nude in public places that the
acts prohibited in this Section encourage or create the potential for criminal
activity, that actual and simulated nudity and sexual conduct, begets and has
the potential for begetting undesirable and unlawful behavior; that sexual,
lewd, lascivious and salacious conduct among patrons and employees within
establishments results in violation of law and creates dangers to the health,
safety, welfare and morals of the public and those who engage in such conduct.
(Ord. 98-0-18, 4-7-1998)
4.8.4: NUDITY PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly, intentionally or recklessly
appear, or cause another person to appear, nude in a public place or in any
other place which is readily visible to the public, except as provided in
Section 4.8.5 of this Chapter. It shall also be unlawful for any person or
entity maintaining, owning or operating any public place establishment to
encourage, suffer or allow any person to appear nude in such public place,
except as provided in Section
 4.8.5 of this Chapter. (Ord. 98-0-18, 4-7-1998)
4.8.5: EXEMPTIONS:
The prohibitions in Section
4.8.4 of this Chapter shall not apply:
   A.   When a person appears nude in a place provided or set apart for nudity
provided: 1) such person is nude for the sole purpose of performing the legal
function(s) that is customarily intended to be performed within such place
provided or set apart for nudity; and 2) such person is not nude for the
purpose of obtaining money or other financial gain for such person or for
another person or entity, or;
   B.   When the conduct of being nude cannot legally be prohibited by this
Chapter: 1) because it constitutes a part of a bona fide live communication,
demonstration or performance by a person wherein such nudity is expressive
conduct incidental to and necessary for the conveyance or communication of a
genuine message or public expression and is not a mere guise or pretense
utilized to exploit the conduct of being nude for profit or commercial gain and
as such is protected by the United States or Illinois constitution; or 2)
because it is otherwise protected by the United States or Illinois
constitution.
   C.   A mother breast-feeding her baby in any location, public or private,
where the mother is otherwise authorized to be, irrespective of whether the
nipple of the mother's breast is uncovered during or incidental to the breast-
feeding. (Ord. 98-0-18, 4-7-1998)
4.8.6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
Any person or entity violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
fined not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) per offense plus the cost of prosecution incurred by
the City including reasonable attorney fees. Each incident or separate
occurrence of an act that violates this Chapter shall be deemed a separate
offense. Continual or repeated violations of this Chapter shall constitute a
public nuisance and the City may initiate proceedings to abate any such
nuisance. (Ord. 98-0-18, 4-7-1998)
CHAPTER 9
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, SAFETY AND MORALS
SECTION:
4.9.1: Damaging Property
4.9.2: Unlawful Possession Of Cannabis
4.9.3: Unlawful Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
4.9.4: Public Use Of Cannabis
4.9.5: Regulation Of Sale, Possession And Use Of Tobacco Products, Electronic
Cigarettes, Alternative Nicotine Products, Bidi Cigarettes, Smokeless Tobacco,
Smoking Herbs And Tobacco Accessories
4.9.6: Synthetic Drugs
4.9.7: Battery
4.9.8: Theft
4.9.9: Littering
4.9.10: Public Possession And Consumption Of Alcohol
4.9.11: Outdoor Urination And Defecation
4.9.1: DAMAGING PROPERTY:
   A.   Damage Prohibited: No person shall damage, befoul, disturb, destroy or
deface any City property or any public or private property without permission
of the owner.
   B.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful, and is hereby declared a nuisance to
permit graffiti to remain upon any public or private curbstone, flagstone,
brick, sidewalk or any portion of any part of any sidewalk or street, or upon
any tree, lamppost, telephone pole, utility box, utility pole, stanchion,
postal mail receptacle, sign, hydrant, fence, door, wall, window, garage or
enclosure, vehicle, bridge, pier or upon any other public or private structure
or building.
   C.   Graffiti Defined: "Graffiti" is any permanent display of any name,
identification, letter, numeral, figure, emblem, insignia, picture, outline,
character, spectacle, delineation, illustration, symbol or any combination
thereof, which without authorization is marked, written, drawn, painted,
scratched, inscribed or affixed, and which is a different color from the color
of the exterior of those objects or structures described above and to which it
is affixed.
   D.   Graffiti Removal: After written notice is given by the Chief of Police
to the record owners of the property where graffiti is displayed, of the
existence of graffiti, the graffiti shall be promptly removed. It shall be the
duty of the Chief of Police to serve or cause to be served, such notice upon
the owner or party in possession of any such object or structure upon which
graffiti is present and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within five (5)
days. All exterior surfaces shall be kept clean and free of graffiti. Surfaces
which have been exposed to graffiti shall be cleaned, painted or in some manner
covered, so as to effect the complete removal of the graffiti from that surface
and return the surface to its prior condition within five (5) days of receipt
of the violation notice to the owner unless extenuating circumstances prevent
work from being done, in which case the Chief of Police may give an extension
for the removal of graffiti. In the event the graffiti is not removed as
provided herein, the City shall remove the graffiti and all costs incurred by
the City shall be borne by the property owner. (Ord. 99-O-14, 3-16-1999)
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section, or
any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof, shall be subject
to the fines and penalties set forth in section
1.4.1 of this Code. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to the owner
of any property damaged or destroyed. (Ord. 09-O-24, 4-21-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
4.9.2: UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF CANNABIS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, cannabis is as defined in
720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/3(a), as amended.
   B.   Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
possess cannabis within the corporate limits of the City except as otherwise
permitted pursuant to:
      1.   The Compassionate Use of Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS
130/1 et seq.), as may be amended; and
      2.   The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705), as may be
amended.
   C.   Violation And Penalty: Whoever violates any provision of this section
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than
two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense if the amount of cannabis
possessed is ten grams (10 g) or less and shall be fined not less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense if the amount of cannabis possessed
is over ten grams (10 g). Violators also shall be responsible for the City's
costs of prosecution including attorney's fees incurred by the City. Each day
that a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 17-O-
66, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 19-O-104, 12-18-2019)
4.9.3: UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this section, drug paraphernalia shall be
as defined in the "Drug Paraphernalia Control Act" at 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 600/1 et seq., as amended.
   B.   Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
possess any drug paraphernalia within the corporate limits of the City except
as otherwise permitted pursuant to:
      1.   The Compassionate Use of Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS
130/1 et seq.), as may be amended; and
      2.   The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705), as may be
amended.
   C.   Violation And Penalty: Whoever violates any provision of this section
shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) if the drug paraphernalia is seized in
connection with possession of only ten grams (10 g) or less of cannabis as
described in section 4.9.2 of this chapter, otherwise the fine shall be not
less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Violators also shall
be responsible for the City's costs of prosecution including attorney's fees
incurred by the City. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. (Ord. 17-O-66, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 19-O-104, 12-18-2019)
4.9.4: PUBLIC USE OF CANNABIS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use cannabis in or about any
public place or places within the corporate limits of the City. As used in this
section, "public place" means any place where a person could reasonably be
expected to be observed by others. "Public place" includes all parts of
buildings owned in whole or part, or leased, by the State or City. "Public
place" includes all areas in a park, recreation area, wildlife area, or
playground owned in whole or in part, leased, or managed by the State or City,
including the Woodstock Square.
   B.   Violation and Penalty: Whoever violates any provision of this section
shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Violators also shall be responsible
for the City's cost of prosecution including attorney's fees incurred by the
City. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. (Ord. 24-O-50, 9-4-2024)
4.9.5: REGULATION OF SALE, POSSESSION AND USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ELECTRONIC
CIGARETTES, ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS, BIDI CIGARETTES, SMOKELESS TOBACCO,
SMOKING HERBS AND TOBACCO ACCESSORIES:
   A.   Regulations Related to Certain Sales:
      1.   In addition to any other penalties provided by state law, any
violation of the following Acts, as may be subsequently amended, shall also
constitute violations of this Section
4.9.5 :
         a.   The Prevention of Cigarette Sales to Persons under 21 years of
Age Act (720 ILCS 678/1 et. seq.); and
         b.   The Prevention of Tobacco Use by Persons under 21 Years of Age
and Sale and Distribution of Tobacco Products Act (720 ILCS 675/.01 et. seq.);
and
         c.   The Display of Tobacco Products Act (720 ILCS 677/1, et seq.).
      2.   The definitions contained in the Acts described in Section LA. above
shall apply to this entire Chapter
4.9.5 .
   B.   Possession Under Twenty-One (21) Prohibited: No person under twenty-one
(21) years of age shall possess any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or
alternative nicotine product in any form.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Penalties for a violation of Section LA. of this Chapter
4.9.5  shall be fined as follows:
         a.   A two-hundred dollar ($200) fine for a first violation or any
first violation within a twenty-four month time period.
         b.   A four-hundred dollar ($400) fine for a second violation within a
twenty-four month time period.
         c.   A six-hundred dollar ($600) fine for a third violation within a
twenty-four month time period.
         d.   An eight-hundred dollar ($800) fine for a fourth and any
subsequent violation within a twenty-four month time period.
         e.   For any violation, the violator shall be responsible for the
City’s cost of prosecution, including reasonable attorney fees.
      2.   Penalties for a violation of Section 2 of this Chapter
4.9.5  shall be as follows:
         a.   A fifty-dollar ($50) fine or a sentence of fifteen (15) hours of
community service for this first violation or any first violation within a
twelve (12)-month time period.
         b.   A one-hundred-dollar ($100) fine or a sentence of twenty-five
(25) hours of community service for a second violation in any twelve (12)-month
period.
         c.   A one hundred and fifty-dollar ($150) fine or a sentence of
thirty (30) hours of community service for any additional violations in any
twelve (12)-month period.
         d.   For any violation, the violator shall be responsible for the
City’s cost of prosecution, including reasonable attorney fees.
   D.   Exemption for Enforcement: It is not a violation of this Section
4.9.5  for a person under twenty-one (21) years of age to purchase or accept
any of the items otherwise prohibited to them under this Section if they do so
pursuant to a plan or action to investigate, patrol, or otherwise conduct a
“sting operation” or enforcement action against a retail seller of tobacco
products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products or a person
employed by the retail seller of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or
alternative nicotine products or on any premises authorized to sell tobacco
products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products to determine
if tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products
are being sold or given to persons under twenty-one (21) years of age if the
“sting operation” or enforcement action is approved by, conducted by, or
conducted on behalf of the Department of State Police, the county sheriff, the
Woodstock police department, the Department of Revenue, the Department of
Public Health, or a local health department.
(Ord. 19-O-64, 8-16-2019; amd. Ord. 24-O-50, 9-4-2024; Ord. 25-O-22, 4-1-2025)
4.9.6: SYNTHETIC DRUGS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms are
defined as follows:
   PRODUCT CONTAINING A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG: Any product containing a
synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen, as those terms
are defined herein such as, but not limited to, the examples of brand names or
identifiers listed on Exhibit A of this section.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID: Any laboratory created compound that functions
similar to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC),
including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material
compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including isomers,
esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor
agonist, such as:
   JWH-007 (1-pentyl-2-methyl-3-(1- naphthoyl)indole)
   JWH-015 (2-Methyl-1-propyl-1H- indol-3-yl)-1 naphthalenylmethanone
   JWH-018 (1-pentyl-3-(1- naphthoyl)indole)
   JWH-019 (1-hexyl-3-(naphthalene-1- oyl)indole)
   JWH-073 (naphthalene-1-yl-(1- butylindol-3-yl)methanone)
   JWH-081 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1- yl-(1-pentylindol-3-yl)methanone)
   JWH-098 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1- yl-(1-pentyl-2-methylindol-3-yl)methanone)
   JWH-122 (1-Pentyl-3-(4 methyl-1- naphthoyl)indole)
   JWH-164 (7-methoxynaphthalen- 1yl-(1-pentylindol-3-yl)methanone
   JWH-200 (1-(2-morpholin-4- ylethyl)indol-3-yl)-naphthalen-1- yl)methanone
   JWH-203 (2-(-chlorophenyl)-1-(1- pentylindol-3-yl)methanone
   JWH-210 (4-ethylnaphthalen-1-yl- (1-pentylindol-3-yl)methanone
   JWH-251 (1-penyl-3-(2- methylphenylacetyl)indole)
   JWH-398 (1-penytyl-3-(4-chloro-1- naphthoyl)indole)
   HU-210 ((6aR,10aR)-9- (Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2- methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a- tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-ol)
   HU-308 ([(1R,2R,5R)-2-[2,6- dimethoxy-4-(2-methtloctan-2-yl)phenyl]- 7,7-
dimethyl-4-bicyclo[3.1.1]hept-3-enyl] methanol)
   HU-331 ((3-hydroxy-2-[1R,6R)-3- methyl-6-(1-methylethenyl) cyclohexen-1-
yl]-5-pentyl-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione)
   CP 55,940 (2-[1R,2R,5R)-5-hydroxy- 2-(3-hydroxypropyl) (cyclohexyl[-5-(2-
methyloctan-2-yl)phenol)
   WIN 55,212-2 ((R)-(+)-[2,3-Dihydro- 5-methyl-3-(4- morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo
[1,2,3-de)-1,4- benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-nepthalenylmethanone)
   RCS-4 ((4-methoxyphenyl)(1-pentyl- 1-H-indol-3-yl)methanone)
   RCS-8 (1-(1-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-1H- indol-3-yl)-2-(2-
methoxyphenyl)methanone)
   SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/HALLUCINOGEN: Any compound that mimics the effects of
any federally controlled schedule I substance, including, but not limited to,
any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture,
preparation, substance and their analog (including salts, isomers, esters,
ethers and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a psychedelic/
hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system and/or brain, such as:
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-E);
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-D);
   2-(4-Chloro-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-C);
   2-(4-Iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-I);
   2-(4-Ethylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-T-2);
   2-(4-(Isopropylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-T-4);
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxyphenly) ethanamine (2C-H);
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-nitro-phenyl) ethanamine (2C-N);
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxyl-4-(n)-propylphenyl) ethanamine (2C-P).
   SYNTHETIC STIMULANT: Any compound that mimics the effects of any federally
controlled schedule I substance such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and
MDEA, including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including
salts, isomers, and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a
stimulant effect on the nervous system, such as:
   3-Fluoromethcathinone
   4-Fluoromethcathinone (other name, fledphedrone)
   3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone (other name, methylone, MDMC)
   3,4-Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (other name, MDPV)
   4-Methylmethcathinon (other names, mephedrone, 4-MMC)
   4-Methoxymethcathinone (other names, Methedrone, bk-PMMA, PMMC)
   4-Ethylmethcathinone (other name, 4-EMC)
   Ethcathinone
   Beta-keto-N-methylbenzodioxyolylpro pylamine (other names, butylone, bk-
MBDB)
   Napthylpyrovalerone (other names, naphyrone, NRG-1)
   N,N-dimethylcathinone (other name, metamfepramone)
   Alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name, alpha-PPP)
   4-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name, MOPPP)
   3,4-methylenedioxy-alph-pyrrolidinopr opiophenone (other name, MDPPP)
   Alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone (other name, alpha-PVP)
   6,7-kihydro-5H-indeno(5,6-d)-1-3-dio xal-6-amine) (other name, MDAI)
   Any compound that is structurally derived from 2-amino-1-phenyl-1-
propananone by modification or substitution in any of the following ways:
      In the phenyl ring to any extent with alkyl, alkoxy, alkylenedioxy,
haloalkyl, or halide substituents, whether or not further substituted in the
phenyl ring by one or more other univalent substituents;
      At a 3-position with an alkyl substituent;
      At the nitrogen atom with alkyl, dialkyl, benzyl, or methoxybenzyl
groups;
      Or by inclusion of the nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure.
   B.   Sale Or Delivery: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer
for sale or deliver any product containing a synthetic alternative drug,
synthetic cannabinoid, synthetic stimulant, or synthetic psychedelic/
hallucinogen, whether or not such substance is labeled for human consumption.
   C.   Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess a
product containing a synthetic alternative drug, synthetic cannabinoid,
synthetic stimulant, or synthetic psychedelic/hallucinogen, whether or not such
substance is labeled for human consumption.
   D.   Use: It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of a
synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant, or psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   E.   Penalties: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall
be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or more than one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). Each violation of this section, or every day
a violation continues to exist, shall constitute a new and separate violation.
   EXHIBIT A
2010
8-Ball
Aztec Gold
Aztec Midnight Wind Tezcatlipoca
Back Draft
Bad 2 the Bone
Banana Cream Nuke
Bayou Blaster
Black Diamond
Black Magic Salvia
Black Mamba
Blueberry Hayze
Bombay Blue
Buzz
C3
C4
C4 Herbal Incense
Caneff
Cherry Bomb
Chill Out
Chill X
Chronic Spice
Citrus
Colorado Chronic
D-Rail
Da Block
Dark Night II
Demon
Diamond Spirit
Dragon Spice
Dream
Earthquake
Eruption Spice
Euphoria
EX-SES
EX-SES Platinum
EX-SES Platinum Blueberry
EX-SES Platinum Cherry
EX-SES Platinum Strawberry
EX-SES Platinum Vanilla
Fire Bird Ultimate Strength Cinnamon
Forest Humus
Freedom
Fully Loaded
Funky Monkey
Funky Monkey XXXX
G Four
G Greenies Caramel Crunch
Genie
Gold Spirit Spice
Green Monkey Chronic Salvia
Greenies Strawberry
Heaven Improved
Heavenscent Suave
Humboldt Gold
Jamaican Gold
K Royal
K1 Gravity
K1 Orbit
K2
K2 Amazonian Shelter
K2 Blonde
K2 Blue
K2 Blueberry
K2 Citron
K2 Cloud 9
K2 Kryptonite
K2 Latte
K2 Mellon
K2 Mint
K2 Orisha Black Magic Max
K2 Orisha Max
K2 Orisha Regular
K2 Orisha Super
K2 Orisha White Magic Super
K2 Peach
K2 Pina Colada
K2 Pineapple
K2 Pineapple Express
K2 Pink
K2 Pink Panties
K2 Sex
K2 Silver
K2 Solid Sex on the Mountain
K2 Standard
K2 Strawberry
K2 Summit
K2 Summit Coffee Wonk
K2 Thai Dream
K2 Ultra
K2 (unknown variety)
K2 Watermelon
K3
K3 Blueberry
K3 Cosmic Blend
K3 Dusk
K3 Grape
K3 Heaven Improved
K3 Heaven Legal
K3 Kryptonite
K3 Legal
K3 Legal - Earth (Silver)
K3 Legal - Original (Black)
K3 Legal - Sea (Silver)
K3 Legal - Sun (Black)
K3 Mango
K3 Original
K3 Original Improved
K3 Strawberry
K3 Sun
K3 Sun Improved
K3 Sun Legal
K3 XXX
K4 Bubble Bubble
K4 Gold
K4 Purple Haze
K4 Silver
K4 Summit Remix
Kind Spice
Legal Eagle
Legal Eagle Apple Pie
Love Potion 69
Love Strawberry
Magic Dragon Platinum
Magic Gold
Magic Silver
Magic Spice
Mega Bomb
Mid-Atlantic Exemplar (K2 Summit)
Midnight Chill
MNGB Almond/Vanilla
MNGB Peppermint
MNGB Pinata Colada
MNGB Spear Mint
MNGB Tropical Thunder
Moe Joe Fire
Mojo
Mr. Smiley's
MTN-787
Mystery
Naughty Nights
New Improved K3 Cosmic Blend
New Improved K3 Dynamite
New Improved K3 Kryptonite
New K3 Earth
New K3 Heaven
New K3 Improved
New K3 Sea Improved
New-Kron Bomb
Nitro
Ocean Blue
Paradise
p.e.p. pourri Love Strawberry
p.e.p. pourri Original Spearmint
p.e.p. pourri Twisted Vanilla
p.e.p. pourri X Blueberry
Pink Tiger
Potpourri
Potpourri Gold
POW
Pulse
Rasta Citrus Spice
Rebel Spice
Red Bird
S1. S Werve
Samurai Spirit
Sativah
Scope Vanilla
Scope Wilberry
Sence
Shanti Spice
Shanti Spice Blueberry
Silent Black
Skunk
Smoke
Smoke Plus
Space
Spice Artic Synergy
Spice Diamond
Spice Gold
Spice Silver
Spice Tropical Synergy
Spicey Regular XXX Blueberry
Spicey Regular XXX Strawberry
Spicey Regular XXX Vanilla
Spicey Ultra Strong XXX Strawberry
Spicey Ultra Strong XXX Vanilla
Spicey XXX
Spicylicious
Spike 99
Spike 99 Ultra
Spike 99 Ultra Blueberry
Spike 99 Ultra Cherry
Spike 99 Ultra Strawberry
Spike Diamond
Spike Gold
Spike Maxx
Spike Silver
Spike Warrior
Stinger
Summer Skyy
Super Kush
Super Summit
Swagger Grape
SYN Chill
SYN Incense LemonLime
SYN Incense Smooth
SYN Incense Spearmint
SYN Lemon Lime
SYN Lemon Lime #2
SYN Smooth
SYN Spearmint
SYN Spearmint #2
SYN Suave
SYN Swagg
SYN Vanilla
SYN Vanilla #2
Texas Gold
Time Warp
Tribal Warrior
Ultra Cloud 10
Unknown cigarette
Utopia
Utopia-Blue Berry
Voodoo Child
Voodoo Magic
Voodoo Remix
Voo Doo Remix (black package)
Voo Doo Remix (orange package)
Who Dat
Who Dat Herbal Incense
Wicked X
Winter Boost
Wood Stock
XTREME Spice
Yucatan Fire
Zombie World
(Ord. 12-O-56, 12-18-2012)
4.9.7: BATTERY:
   A.   Battery Prohibited: No person shall commit a battery in the city. A
person commits battery if it is intentional or knowingly, without legal
justification and by any means:
      1.   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
      2.   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined a minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 13-O-29, 5-21-2013)
4.9.8: THEFT:
   A.   Retail Theft: It shall be unlawful to commit the offense of retail
theft of property not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00). A person
commits the offense of retail theft when such person knowingly:
      1.   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transferred, any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise; or
      2.   Alters, transfers or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia
of value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale, in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise personally or in
consort with another at less than the full retail value with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      3.   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale, in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      4.   Under rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full
retail value of the merchandise; or
      5.   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail merchandise
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart; or
      6.   Represents to a merchant that such person or another is the lawful
owner of property, knowing that such representation is false, and conveys or
attempts to convey that property to a merchant who is the owner of the property
in exchange for money, merchandise credit or other property of the merchant; or
      7.   Uses or possesses any theft detection shielding device or theft
detection device remover with the intention of using such device to deprive the
merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of any merchandise
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment without paying the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      8.   If any person:
         a.   Conceals upon their person or among their belongings, unpaid
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment; and
         b.   Removes that merchandise beyond the last known station for
receiving payment for that merchandise in that retail mercantile establishment.
      9.   Any person who violates any provision of this subsection shall be
fined a minimum of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      10.   Police officers shall be permitted to photograph and fingerprint
individuals suspected of violating this section at the retail mercantile
establishment.
      11.   The merchandise shall be photographed for evidence purposes and
returned to the merchant. These photographs shall be deemed primary evidence in
the prosecution of individuals who violate this section.
   B.   General Theft: It shall be unlawful to commit the offense of theft of
property not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00). A person commits the
offense of theft when such person knowingly:
      1.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
or
      2.   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
      3.   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
      4.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him to
believe that the property was stolen; or
      5.   Obtains or exerts control over property in the custody of any law
enforcement agency which is explicitly represented to him by any law
enforcement officer or any individual acting on behalf of a law enforcement
agency as being stolen, and
         a.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property; or
         b.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner
as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
         c.   Uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
      6.   Any person who violates any provision of this subsection shall be
fined a minimum of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 13-O-29, 5-21-2013)
4.9.9: LITTERING:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively:
   LITTER: Any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance or waste. Litter may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, cigarettes, debris,
rubbish, grass clippings, or other lawn or garden waste, newspaper, magazines,
glass, metal, plastic or paper containers, or other packaging construction
material, abandoned vehicle 1 , motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of
a dead animal, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind, any object likely
to injure any person or create a traffic hazard, potentially infectious medical
waste as defined in 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.360, or anything else of
an unsightly or unsanitary nature, which has been discarded, abandoned, or
otherwise disposed of improperly.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: The meaning ascribed to that term in 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-146.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, or any other
legal entity, or their legal representative, agent or assigns.
   B.   Dumping Or Depositing Of Litter Prohibited; Exemptions:
      1.   Dumping Prohibited; Exemptions: No person shall dump, deposit, drop,
throw, discard, leave, cause, or permit the dumping, depositing, dropping,
throwing, discarding, or leaving of litter upon any public or private property
in this city, or upon or into any river, lake, pond, or other stream or body of
water in this city unless:
         a.   The property has been designated by the city or any of its
agencies for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that
property in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the state
pollution control board;
         b.   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container
intended by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the
deposit of litter;
         c.   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the
property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful
possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner
or tenant and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance, or a fire hazard;
         d.   The person is acting under the direction of proper public
officials during special cleanup days; and/or
         e.   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly
disposes of any litter, including, but not limited to, potentially infectious
medical waste as defined in 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.360, when the
emergency situation no longer exists.
      2.   Penalties:
         a.   Any person found guilty of a violation of this subsection B shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
         b.   An individual convicted of violating this subsection B by
disposing of litter upon a public roadway may, in addition to any other
penalty, be required to maintain litter control for thirty (30) days over a
designated portion of that roadway.
   C.   Dumping Or Depositing Litter From Motor Vehicle Prohibited:
      1.   Dumping And Transportation Prohibited: No person shall dump,
deposit, drop, throw, discard, or otherwise dispose of litter from any motor
vehicle upon any public roadway, upon any public or private property or upon or
into any river, lake, pond, stream, or body of water in this City except as
permitted under subsection B1 of this section. Nor shall any person transport,
by any means, garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of
business, farm, or other site to and deposit the material in, around, or on top
of trash barrels or other receptacles placed along public roadways or at
roadside rest areas.
      2.   Penalties:
         a.   Any person found guilty of a violation of this subsection C shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
         b.   An individual convicted of violating this subsection C by
disposing of litter upon a public roadway may, in addition to any other
penalty, be required to maintain litter control for thirty (30) days over a
designated portion of that roadway.
   D.   Accumulation Of Litter Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of
which the person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as
to constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be
blown or otherwise carried by the natural elements onto the real property of
another person.
      2.   Any person found guilty of a violation of this subsection D shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   E.   Presumption Of Violation By Operator Throwing Litter From Motor
Vehicle: Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that
the operator of that motor vehicle has violated subsection C of this section,
but that presumption may be rebutted.
   F.   Receptacles Required In Public Areas:
      1.   In order to assist the public in complying with this section, the
owner or person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a
place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation, or as a public
way shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the deposit of
litter of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the
numbers of people customarily coming on or using the property.
      2.   For purposes of this section, property held out to the public for
the transaction of business includes, but is not limited to, commercially
operated parks, campgrounds, drive-in restaurants, automobile service stations,
business parking lots, car washes, shopping centers, industrial parking lots,
roadside rest stops, drive-in movies, and shopping malls; and property held out
to the public for assemblage, recreation, or as a public way includes, but is
not limited to, any property that is publicly owned or operated for any of the
purposes stated in the definition in this section for property held out to the
public for the transaction of business but excludes State highway rights-of-way
and rest areas located thereon.
      3.   If no litter receptacles are placed on property described in this
subsection F, the owner or person in control of the property shall be fined one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for violating this subsection. If the owner or person
in control of the property has placed litter receptacles on his property but
the number or size of the receptacles has proved inadequate to meet the needs
of the numbers of people coming on or using his property as indicated by the
condition and appearance of that property, and the owner or person in control
has failed to provide sufficient or adequate receptacles within ten (10) days
after being made aware of that fact by written notice from the police, the
violator shall be fined twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each receptacle not so
provided and maintained.
   G.   Power Of City To Order Abatement Of Litter: The penalties prescribed in
this section are in addition to, and not in lieu of any penalties, rights,
remedies, duties, or liabilities which may be otherwise imposed or conferred by
title 1, chapter 7, article L, "Code Hearing Department", of this Code or the
22nd Judicial Circuit Court. (Ord. 14-O-38, 5-20-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. As defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
4.9.10: PUBLIC POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL:
   A.   Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any
alcoholic liquor not sealed in its original container as defined by the liquor
control ordinance (section
3.3.1 of this Code, as may be subsequently amended), upon or about the
following places: any street, sidewalk, public thoroughfare or other public
property within the City limits, unless otherwise authorized by the City
Council.
   B.   Consumption: It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any
alcoholic liquor upon or about the following places: any street, sidewalk,
public thoroughfare or other public property within the City limits, unless
otherwise authorized by the City Council.
   C.   Penalty: In addition to any other penalties available and enforceable
under this Code, any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per offense, and shall be responsible for the
City's cost of prosecution including reasonable attorney fees, for each
offense. (Ord. 17-O-75, 9-5-2017)
   A.   No person shall urinate or defecate on the public way, or on any
outdoor public property, or on any outdoor private property. This provision
does not apply to appropriately authorized, maintained and enclosed portable
toilet facilities.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to the fines and penalties set forth in section
1.4.1 of this Code. (Ord. 17-O-73, 9-5-2017)
4.9.11: OUTDOOR URINATION AND DEFECATION:
   A.   No person shall urinate or defecate on the public way, or on any
outdoor public property, or on any outdoor private property. This provision
does not apply to appropriately authorized, maintained and enclosed portable
toilet facilities.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to the fines and penalties set forth in section
1.4.1 of this Code. (Ord. 17-O-73, 9-5-2017)
CHAPTER 10
TRUANCY
SECTION:
4.10.1: Defined
4.10.2: Prohibited
4.10.3: Permitting Minor To Be Truant Prohibited
4.10.4: Penalties
4.10.1: DEFINED:
For purposes of this chapter, the term "truant" is: a) any person between the
ages of seven (7) and sixteen (16) who is subject to compulsory school
attendance and who is absent, without valid cause, from school attendance
during a regular school day or any portion thereof or during a required summer
school program established pursuant to 105 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-
22.33B; and b) any person who is sixteen (16), seventeen (17) or eighteen (18)
years of age and enrolled in a public school and who is absent, without valid
cause, from school attendance during a regular school day or any portion
thereof or during a required summer school program.
The following children are not considered truant:
   A.   Any child attending a private or parochial school where children are
taught the branches of education taught to children of corresponding age and
grade in the public schools, and where the instruction of the child in the
branches of education is in the English language;
   B.   Any child who is not enrolled in a public school and is instructed by a
legal guardian in a manner equal or superior to that obtainable in the public
schools;
   C.   Any child who is physically or mentally unable to attend school, such
disability being certified to either community unit school district 200
(hereinafter "school district") truancy officer or McHenry County regional
office of education truancy officer, by a licensed physician or by a Christian
Science practitioner residing in Illinois and listed with the Christian Science
Journal; or who is excused for temporary absence for cause by the principal or
teacher of the school which the child attends. The exemptions in this section
do not apply to any female who is pregnant or the mother of one or more
children, except where a female is unable to attend school due to a
complication arising from her pregnancy and the existence of such complication
is certified to the school district truancy officer or McHenry County regional
office of education truancy officer by a competent physician;
   D.   Any child necessarily and lawfully employed according to the provisions
of the law regulating child labor may be excused from attendance at school by
the school district superintendent of schools or by the regional superintendent
of schools, on certification of the facts by and the recommendation of the
school district board of education. If a part time continuation school is run
in either school district, children so excused shall attend the continuation
school at least eight (8) hours each week;
   E.   Any child over twelve (12) and under fourteen (14) years of age while
in attendance at confirmation classes;
   F.   Any child absent from school on a particular day or days or at a
particular time of day for the reason that he is unable to attend classes or to
participate in any examination, study or work requirements on a particular day
or days or at a particular time of day, because the tenets of his religion
forbid secular activity on a particular day or days or at a particular time of
day; and
   G.   Emergency or unforeseen absences due to illness or other causes beyond
the control of the person so absenting himself or herself from school without
parental or legal guardian permission shall not constitute truancy if
permission for such absence has been obtained from the parent or legal guardian
and such permission is submitted to the proper school authorities within twenty
four (24) hours of such absence. (Ord. 06-0-79, 11-7-2006)
4.10.2: PROHIBITED:
Upon a complaint signed by an authorized school district official, it shall be
unlawful for any person to be truant. Any person who is truant shall be guilty
of the offense of truancy and be subject to the penalties hereinafter set forth
in this chapter. (Ord. 06-0-79, 11-7-2006)
4.10.3: PERMITTING MINOR TO BE TRUANT PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person to knowingly permit
a person in his or her custody or control to violate this chapter. (Ord. 06-0-
79, 11-7-2006)
4.10.4: PENALTIES:
Upon a complaint being signed by an authorized school district official, any
person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each offense and may be subject to community service or a
combination of a fine and community service. If the violator is under ten (10)
years of age, the parent or custodian of the violator shall be subject to the
fine, community service or both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which such violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 06-0-
79, 11-7-2006)
CHAPTER 11
FIRE AND SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
4.11.1: General
4.11.2: Wireless Alarm Network
4.11.3: Maintenance Of Fire Alarm Systems
4.11.4: Maintenance Of Security Alarm Systems
4.11.5: Automatic Dialer Alarms
4.11.6: Audible Security Alarms
4.11.7: False Fire Alarms
4.11.8: False Security Alarms
4.11.9: Limitations On City Liability
4.11.10: Penalties
4.11.1: GENERAL:
   A.   Design And Installation: Fire alarm systems shall be designed and
installed in accordance with the provisions of NFPA 72 national fire alarm
code/2007 edition, international building code (IBC)/2006 edition as adopted by
the city and amended from time to time, international fire code (IFC)/2006
edition as adopted by the city and amended from time to time, and this chapter.
Devices, appliances and equipment shall be listed and approved for the purpose
for which they are installed. Automatic fire detection shall be by smoke
detectors, except that an approved alternative type of detector shall be
installed where a smoke detector is inappropriate.
      1.   Security System Design And Installation: Security systems shall be
designed and installed in accordance with NFPA 731, standard for the
installation of electronic premises security systems/2008 edition, as amended
from time to time.
   B.   Where Required: An approved fire alarm and detection system shall be
provided within the city of Woodstock (city) and Woodstock fire/rescue district
(district) where required by the IBC/IFC.
   C.   Single And Multiple Station Detection: Single and multiple station
smoke detection shall be provided in accordance with section 907.3.2 of the
IFC, as amended from time to time.
   D.   Supervision Of Fire Protection Systems: Where a fire alarm system
control unit is provided for the required supervision of fire protection system
as indicated in the IBC or IFC as adopted and amended from time to time, alarm,
supervisory (where applicable) and trouble signals shall be transmitted to the
remote supervising station at the city of Woodstock police department ("police
department") in accordance with section 903.4.1 as amended from time to time in
the IBC or IFC. The method of connection to the remote supervising station
shall be in accordance with section
4.11.2 of this chapter.
      1.   Supervision Of Existing Directly Connected Alarm Systems: All
existing required fire alarm and security systems connected to the city's
remote station by phone line as of August 1, 2009, shall convert to the city's
network on or before December 1, 2009.
      2.   Supervision Of Security Systems: Where a security system is
supervised directly by the city, the method of connection shall be in
accordance with section
4.11.2 of this chapter.
      3.   Supervision Of Nonrequired Fire Alarm Systems: Where a nonrequired
fire alarm system is directly connected to the city's remote station the method
of connection shall be in accordance with section
4.11.2 of this chapter. (Ord. 09-O-53, 8-4-2009)
4.11.2: WIRELESS ALARM NETWORK:
   A.   Connection Method: The method of connecting directly to the remote
supervising station shall be by the city of Woodstock's wireless alarm network
("network"), or other alternate connection means as approved by the director of
community development. All fire alarm system control panels connected to a
network radio transceiver shall be provided with at least one reverse polarity
output except that fire alarm control panels monitoring supervisory signals
(tamper switches, fire pump conditions, etc.) shall be provided with two (2)
reverse polarity outputs. All fire alarm control panels shall be UL listed for
remote station signaling of manual, automatic, waterflow (where applicable) and
supervisory (where applicable) signals by the reverse polarity method. Other
listed and supervised methods of connection between the fire alarm control unit
and the radio transceiver shall be permitted. A minimum twelve (12) volt
filtered DC signal shall be provided from the fire alarm control unit to the
radio transceiver.
      1.   Connection Method For Security Systems: The method of connecting a
security system to a network radio transceiver shall be in accordance with the
equipment manufacturer's installation instructions and industry standards,
subject to the approval of the city.
   B.   Primary Power Required: The fire alarm, or security contractor, or
responsible electrical contractor, shall provide a 1900 box directly above and
within three feet (3') of the fire alarm control unit (or security panel if the
radio transceiver is to be used for security system monitoring only). The 1900
box shall house the A/C primary power source for the fire alarm control panel
(or security panel). Sufficient additional wire shall be left in the 1900 box
to allow for the city's radio vendor to splice into the A/C conductors to
obtain power for the radio. When the 1900 box, and A/C primary power source is
not provided, other wiring methods may be permitted by the city.
   C.   Application Process: All connections to the network shall be preceded
by an application process. The city shall provide to owners, agents or
occupants of buildings within the city and the Woodstock fire/rescue district
("district"), requiring or requesting connection to the city's network,
appropriate forms and contracts which shall be completed and returned to the
city prior to the approval of such a connection.
   D.   Fire/Security System Monitoring Fees: Fees for the monthly monitoring
of signals shall be as follows:
      1.   Fire, supervisory, trouble signals from fire alarm control units:
Ninety dollars ($90.00) per month.
      2.   Security system signals when the fire alarm control unit is also
monitored and the same radio is used: Twenty five dollars ($25.00) per month.
      3.   Security system signals when a separate radio is used: Ninety
dollars ($90.00) per month.
The monthly fees for city and district buildings will be waived.
Connections made to the network on the first through the fifteenth of the month
will be charged the applicable full monthly monitoring fee for the first month
of service. Connections made on the sixteenth through the last day of the month
will be charged one-half (1/2) of the applicable monthly fee for the first
month. All alarm connections in place at the Woodstock police dispatch center
at the inception of this chapter will be provided free service for the month
that the customer is initially connected to the network, as long as the
completed application and the network contract are submitted to the city by
November 30, 2009.
Invoices will be mailed monthly and are required to be paid within thirty (30)
days. All fees shall be paid to the city of Woodstock. A late payment penalty
of ten percent (10%) will be assessed to any delinquent invoices. The wireless
alarm board may deny alarm monitoring service if a customer falls more than
sixty (60) days delinquent on any outstanding invoice. If the wireless alarm
board decides to temporarily suspend the fire alarm monitoring to a given
building, specifically in cases where this monitoring is required by the IFC or
IBC, this action may result in the city revoking the building's certificate of
occupancy until the condition has been corrected.
   E.   Fire/Security Systems Registration And Fees: This section shall apply
to all fire alarm and security systems connected to the city's network. Each
fire alarm and security system within the city and district shall be registered
if connected to the city's network. Registration of the fire alarm and security
systems is intended to provide the city and district with current information
related to the fire alarm and security systems including, but not limited to,
its owner, the responsible party, night/after hours call information, fire
alarm and security system maintenance contractor, and the results of the
required annual fire alarm inspection. Each fire alarm and security system
owner shall complete a registration form provided by the city at the time of
initial connection to the network, and annually when the connection to the
network is renewed.
Fees for system registration shall be as follows:
      1.   Initial registration fee shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00), per
radio, which shall be paid with monitoring fees due before the initial
connection to the network.
      2.   The fee for registration renewal shall be ten dollars ($10.00), per
radio per year, after the first year. The fee shall be paid with the second
year, and each succeeding year's, monitoring fees. An inspection report (see
sections
4.11.3 and
4.11.4 of this chapter) for each system registered shall be attached to the
annual registration renewal form.
All fees shall be paid to the city of Woodstock. Annual registration fees for
the city and district buildings will be waived.
   F.   Initial Connection Fees: A onetime connection fee shall be charged for
all new fire alarm and security systems connected to the network. This fee
shall be collected by the city prior to the initial connection to the network.
      1.   The fee for connecting to the network will be two hundred ten
dollars ($210.00) for each fire alarm and security system.
      2.   Connection fees shall be waived for all existing directly connected
fire alarm and security systems as of the inception date of this chapter.
      3.   All fees shall be paid to the city of Woodstock. All connection fees
for city and district buildings are waived.
   G.   Renewal Of Monitoring And Registration Fees: Subscribers to the network
will be invoiced by the city monthly for monitoring services. Annually, the
cost for the renewal registration fee will be invoiced. All annual monitoring
and registration fees shall be paid prior to the start of the new annual
renewal period. All fees shall be paid to the city of Woodstock. A late payment
penalty of ten percent (10%) will be applied to all invoices that are
delinquent.
   H.   Network Equipment: The city is the owner of all equipment associated
with the network. Subscribers to the network will be provided with a radio
transceiver that replaces the traditional phone circuit for connection to the
remote supervising station. The subscriber, through the monthly monitoring fee,
is leasing the radio transceiver from the city.
   I.   Network Equipment Installation And Maintenance: The installation,
annual and necessary maintenance, testing, and repair of the radio transceiver
at the subscriber's premises will be completed solely by a fire alarm company
chosen by the city. The city will contract with a single vendor to provide this
service. Subscribers to the network will be advised of the city's vendor
identity. Subscribers shall allow the city's vendor access to the radio
transceiver during normal business hours for all required or necessary
installation, annual maintenance, testing, and repair.
   J.   Fees Associated With Radio Transceiver Installation: The city will
install the necessary radio transceiver at the subscriber's location at no cost
to the subscriber, other than those indicated in subsections D through G of
this section, when a standard installation can be accomplished by the city's
vendor. The wireless alarm board is responsible for determining the components
that must be provided within a standard installation. When the city's vendor
cannot perform a standard installation, and an antenna other than the one
provided on the radio must be used to permit network connectivity, the
subscriber will be invoiced a nonstandard installation fee by the city in
accordance with a fee schedule agreed to with the city's vendor. Fees for
nonstandard installations shall be paid to the city within thirty (30) days of
installation. (Ord. 09-O-53, 8-4-2009)
4.11.3: MAINTENANCE OF FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS:
All fire alarm systems shall be subject to inspection, testing and maintenance
in accordance with NFPA 72/2007 edition, as amended from time to time. The
responsibility for completing inspection, testing and maintenance is found in
section 10.2.2 of said NFPA 72. Inspection, testing and maintenance shall be
documented in accordance with section 2 of said NFPA 72. Documented annual test
results shall be provided to the city as part of the annual registration
renewal. While the city will repair and maintain its network equipment,
including the radio transceiver at the subscriber's location, it is the
responsibility of owner of the fire alarm system within the premises to provide
the required inspection, testing and maintenance at their own expense. (Ord.
09-O-53, 8-4-2009)
4.11.4: MAINTENANCE OF SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS:
All security systems shall be subject to inspection, testing and maintenance in
accordance with NFPA 731/2008 edition, as amended from time to time. The
responsibility for completing inspection, testing and maintenance is found in
section 10.1.3 of said NFPA 731. Inspection, testing and maintenance shall be
documented in accordance with section 10.6.2.3 of said NFPA 731. Documented
annual test results shall be provided to the city as part of the annual
registration renewal. While the city will repair and maintain its network
equipment, including the radio transceiver at the subscriber's location, it is
the responsibility of owner of the security system within the premises to
provide the required inspection, testing and maintenance of the security system
at their own expense. (Ord. 09-O-53, 8-4-2009)
4.11.5: AUTOMATIC DIALER ALARMS:
Automatic dialer alarms that dial directly into the police department are not
allowed to be used within the corporate limits of the city, with the exception
of those used by the city and those authorized by the chief of police or his/
her designee based upon special facts involving medical and/or life threatening
circumstances. (Ord. 09-O-53, 8-4-2009)
4.11.6: AUDIBLE SECURITY ALARMS:
Any security alarm that emits an audible alarm is required to have a cutoff
timer that will shut the alarm off automatically after thirty (30) minutes.
(Ord. 09-O-53, 8-4-2009)
4.11.7: FALSE FIRE ALARMS:
   A.   False Fire Alarms: Any person owning or leasing an alarm system that
transmits an alarm activation, either indirectly or directly to the police
department, shall be in violation of this chapter if the false alarm conditions
as defined in subsection B of this section are determined to be evident by
either the city or district. For purposes of determining guilt under this
section, a person's knowledge and intent are not elements of this offense.
   B.   False Fire Alarm Conditions: For the purpose of this section, there
shall be a rebuttable presumption that a fire alarm activation was a false fire
alarm when the city or district determines that:
      1.   There is no evidence of a fire or other smoke, noxious gas or high
temperature on the protected premises that would warrant a call for immediate
emergency response; and
      2.   There is no evidence that violent weather conditions, electrical
power failures, transmission line malfunctions, or other extraordinary
circumstances beyond the control of the fire alarm user caused the activation
of the fire alarm.
   C.   New Fire Alarm Systems: Whenever a new fire alarm system is installed
and added to the network, no fire alarm activation received from the
subscriber's location shall be deemed a false alarm for a period of fifteen
(15) days from the date of system acceptance by the city or district so long as
the total number of false alarms does not exceed a total of three (3). All
false fire alarms exceeding three (3) in the first fifteen (15) days shall be
charged at one hundred dollars ($100.00) per activation. Following the fifteen
(15) day grace period, false alarm fees will be based on subsection E of this
section.
   D.   Notice Of False Fire Alarm: The method of notifying a subscriber of a
false alarm shall be as follows:
      1.   On a monthly basis, the city shall send a false fire alarm notice to
all subscribers for whom any false alarm(s), within the meaning of subsection A
of this section, has been recorded. Such notice shall include the date and time
of each fire alarm, the suspected reason for the false fire alarm if known, and
the fee, if any, for the fire alarm(s). False alarm notices shall be sent to
the responsible party, as indicated on the registration form for the system, by
postage paid, first class U.S. mail.
      2.   All false fire alarm fees shall be paid to the city within thirty
(30) days of the invoice date.
      3.   Within twenty one (21) days of the false alarm invoice date, the
owner of a fire alarm system may provide evidence to rebut the presumption of a
false fire alarm to the wireless alarm board. If it is found that the evidence
provided successfully rebuts the false alarm determination, the false alarm
charge for each false alarm successfully rebutted shall be deleted from the
fire alarm system's records. The decision of the wireless alarm board with
regards to a false fire alarm classification shall be final.
   E.   False Fire Alarm Fees: A false alarm fee is hereby imposed on the
responsible party of any fire alarm system to reimburse the city and district
for the increased costs incurred in the response to excessive false fire
alarms. False fire alarms exceeding three (3) in a calendar year shall be
considered excessive.
The responsible party of any fire alarm system shall pay a false alarm response
fee based on the following schedule:
 
False Fire Alarms Within A Calendar Year False Alarm Response Fee (Per
                                         Activation)
   0 – 3                            $ 0.00
   4 – 5                            100.00
   6 – 10                           250.00
   11 and more                        500.00
 
False fire alarm fees will be effective beginning in calendar year 2010.
   F.   Intentional False Fire Alarms: Any alarm user who intentionally
activates an alarm system where no fire emergency exists shall be fined two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) in addition to the normal false alarm fees that
would be required by subsection E of this section and may be held subject to
prosecution under applicable Illinois state law. (Ord. 09-O-53, 8-4-2009)
4.11.8: FALSE SECURITY ALARMS:
   A.   False Security Alarms: Any person owning or leasing an alarm system
that transmits an alarm activation, either indirectly or directly to the police
department, shall be in violation of this chapter if the false alarm conditions
as defined in subsection B of this section are determined to be evident by
either the city or district. For purposes of determining guilt under this
section, a person's knowledge and intent are not elements of this offense.
   B.   False Security Alarm Conditions: For the purpose of this section, there
shall be a rebuttable presumption that a security system activation was a false
alarm where the city determines that:
An activation of a user's security alarm system elicited a response by the
police department, when no emergency or actual or threatened criminal activity
requiring an immediate response was needed, this is to include a signal
activated by negligence, accident, mechanical failure, and electrical failure,
signals activated intentionally in nonemergency situations, and signals for
which the actual cause of activation is unknown.
   C.   New Security Alarm Systems: Whenever a new security system is installed
and added to the network, no security system activation received from the
subscriber's location shall be deemed a false alarm for a period of fifteen
(15) days from the date of system acceptance by the city or district so long as
the total number of false alarms does not exceed a total of three (3). All
false security alarms exceeding three (3) in the first fifteen (15) days shall
be charged at one hundred dollars ($100.00) per activation. Following the
fifteen (15) day grace period, false alarm fees will be based on subsection E
of this section.
   D.   Notice Of False Security Alarm: The method of notifying a subscriber of
a false alarm shall be as follows:
      1.   On a monthly basis, the city shall send a false security alarm
notice to all subscriber's for whom any false alarm(s), within the meaning of
subsection A of this section, has been recorded. Such notice shall include the
date and time of each alarm, the suspected reason for the false alarm if known,
and the fee, if any, for the alarm(s). False alarm notices shall be sent to the
responsible party, as indicated on the registration form for the system, by
postage paid, first class U.S. mail.
      2.   All false alarm fees shall be paid to the city within thirty (30)
days of the invoice date.
      3.   Within twenty one (21) days of the false alarm invoice date, the
owner of a security system may provide evidence to rebut the presumption of a
false security alarm to the wireless alarm board. If it is found that the
evidence provided successfully rebuts the false alarm determination of the
city, the false alarm charge for each false alarm successfully rebutted shall
be deleted from the security system's records. The decision of the wireless
alarm board with regards to a false security alarm classification shall be
final.
   E.   False Security Alarm Fees: A response fee is hereby imposed on the
responsible party of any security alarm system to reimburse the city for the
increased costs incurred in the response to excessive false security alarms.
False security alarms exceeding three (3) in a calendar year shall be
considered excessive.
The responsible party of any security system shall pay a false alarm response
fee based on the following schedule:
 
False Security Alarms Within A Calendar False Alarm Response  Fee (Per
Year                                    Activation)
   0 – 3                           $ 0.00
   4 – 5                           100.00
   6 – 10                          250.00
   11 and more                       500.00
 
False alarm security fees will be effective beginning in calendar year 2010.
   F.   Intentional False Security Alarms: Any alarm user who intentionally
activates an alarm system where no police emergency exists shall be fined two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) in addition to the normal false alarm fees that
would be required by subsection E of this section and may be held subject to
prosecution under applicable Illinois state law. (Ord. 09-O-53, 8-4-2009)
4.11.9: LIMITATIONS ON CITY LIABILITY:
The city shall take reasonable precautions to assure that the alarm signals and
alarm activations received by the city either directly or indirectly are given
appropriate attention and are acted upon by the Woodstock police dispatch
center. Nevertheless, the city shall not be liable for:
   A.   Any defects in the operation of an automatic signaling device;
   B.   Any failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon receipt of an
alarm from any source;
   C.   For failure or neglect of any person in connection with the
installation and operation of equipment, the transmission of alarm signals and/
or prerecorded alarm messages or the relaying of such signals and messages.
In the event the city finds it necessary to disconnect a defective alarm
detection system, the city shall incur no liability for such action. (Ord. 09-
O-53, 8-4-2009)
4.11.10: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates or neglects to comply with any provision of this
chapter or any regulation promulgated pursuant thereto, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which such violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 09-O-53, 8-4-2009)
CHAPTER 12
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4.12.1: Purpose
4.12.2: Definitions
4.12.3: Prohibitions
4.12.4: Conditions And Limitations
4.12.5: Exemptions
4.12.6: Enforcement, Violations And Penalties
4.12.1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of the city of Woodstock by regulating the open burning of materials
within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 09-O-62, 10-6-2009)
4.12.2: DEFINITIONS:
!!! CEREMONIAL FIRE OR BONFIRE: An outdoor fire, larger than three feet by
three feet by three feet (3' x 3' x 3'), which is used for entertainment
purposes as part of a specifically scheduled public or private event and,
except as provided for herein, excludes the burning of leaves, grass, or
shrubbery clippings or cuttings.
   OPEN BURNING: The combustion of materials wherein products of the combustion
are emitted into open air without passing through a stack or chimney from an
enclosed chamber. For the purpose of this definition, a chamber shall be
regarded as enclosed when during the time combustion occurs, only apertures,
ducts, stacks, flues, chimneys or similar features necessary to provide
combustion air and permit the escape of exhaust gas are open.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE: A temporary outdoor fire, no larger than three feet by
three feet by three feet (3' x 3' x 3'), for burning materials other than
leaves, grass, shrubbery clippings or cuttings, or rubbish where the fuel being
burned is fully contained in an outdoor fireplace or appliance designed for
recreational burning purposes and used in the manner for which it was intended.
(Ord. 09-O-62, 10-6-2009)
4.12.3: PROHIBITIONS:
The open burning of materials for waste disposal or other purposes, including,
but not limited to, material such as yard waste, landscape debris, construction
materials and debris, garbage, trash, or household waste, paper goods,
cardboard, wood, food waste, animal waste, furniture, clothing, mattresses,
appliances, and similar items and/or material is prohibited. (Ord. 09-O-62, 10-
6-2009)
4.12.4: CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS:
   A.   A ceremonial fire or bonfire must be supervised by an individual at
least eighteen (18) years of age or older who shall be present at all times
until the fire is extinguished. It is the responsibility of the individual
supervising a ceremonial fire or bonfire and the property owner to verify that
requirements set forth in these regulations are complied with.
   B.   A garden hose or fire extinguisher or water source suitable for
extinguishing the fire shall be available at the site of any ceremonial fire or
bonfire, and such fire shall be extinguished when left unattended or abandoned.
   C.   A ceremonial fire or bonfire is required to have a permit issued by the
McHenry County department of health and the Woodstock fire/rescue district must
be notified no less than forty eight (48) hours prior to the start of such
fire.
   D.   A recreational fire is permitted provided it is located at least
fifteen feet (15') from any building or structure.
   E.   Fire and smoke generated by a ceremonial fire or bonfire or
recreational fire shall not cause or result in any unsafe condition.
   F.   A ceremonial fire or bonfire or recreational fire shall not comprise or
result in a nuisance, as defined in chapter 1, "Nuisances", of this title, for
other property owners or residents. Pursuant to a signed complaint by the
offended party, a citation may be issued for violation of the city's nuisance
regulations. (Ord. 09-O-62, 10-6-2009)
4.12.5: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The restrictions set forth herein on open burning shall not apply to
prescribed burns associated with ecologic restoration or natural landscape
management, or burning of landscape waste for purposes of habitat reclamation,
or burning associated with firefighter training.
   B.   The restrictions set forth herein on open burning shall not apply to
burning in domestic fireplaces, cooking grills, or external fireplaces, or to
self-contained outdoor wood burning devices or fireplaces used in accordance
with manufacturer's specifications, and when used in a manner so as not to
create a nuisance as described in chapter 1, "Nuisances", of this title. (Ord.
09-O-62, 10-6-2009)
4.12.6: ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   These regulations shall be in addition to the current edition of the
international fire code adopted by the city of Woodstock and the McHenry County
open burning ordinance. Failure to comply with these regulations may be
considered a violation of this code and of the McHenry County open burning
ordinance.
   B.   Any enforcement officer of the city of Woodstock, Woodstock fire/rescue
district, or McHenry County department of health is authorized to enforce these
provisions. Complaints regarding violations of these regulations should be made
to the Woodstock police department which will determine upon inspection whether
a violation exists and if there is a need to involve the Woodstock fire/rescue
district.
   C.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation is committed, and shall be subject to the fines and penalties set
forth in section
1.4.1 of this code. If any person, firm, or corporation receiving a citation
for violating any provision of this chapter fails to pay, settle or adjust the
fine specified herein, then adjudication procedures may be initiated in
accordance with title 1, chapter 7, article L of this code or with a court of
competent jurisdiction, and such processes as necessary shall commence.
   D.   A written citation may be issued to the alleged violator by any of the
methods specified herein. If the violator cannot be ascertained, then the
citation may be sent to the record owner of the land on which the violation
occurs. The citation shall describe the nature of the violation and the amount
of the fine that must be paid.
   E.   If the person, firm or corporation cited for the violation has failed
to pay, settle or adjust the fine, then such citation shall be filed in a court
of competent jurisdiction and such process as necessary shall commence. (Ord.
09-O-62, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 13
PERFORMANCE-BASED PROPERTY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
SECTION:
4.13.1: Purpose
4.13.2: Definitions
4.13.3: Code Compliance Required For All Rental Units
4.13.4: Registration Required For Certain Rental Unit Owners
4.13.5: Permit Required For Certain Rental Unit Owners
4.13.6: Permit Application Procedures
4.13.7: Permit Inspection Procedures
4.13.8: Inspection Access
4.13.9: Permit Conditions, Revocation And Denial
4.13.10: Consequences Of Permit Revocation Or Denial
4.13.11: Right To Appeal Revocation, Denial Or Conditioning Of A Permit
4.13.12: Regulation Of Newly Acquired And Recently Sold Rental Units; Updated
Information Required
4.13.13: No Retaliation
4.13.14: Falsely Reporting Violations
4.13.15: Tenant Responsibilities
4.13.16: Enforcement And Penalties
4.13.1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to regulate the maintenance and code compliance of
rental property within the City and improve the accountability of owners and
tenants of rental housing having frequent or recurring code violations in order
to:
   A.   Help ensure a safe and livable rental housing stock in the City;
   B.   Protect public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City;
   C.   Protect the character and stability of residential neighborhoods and
areas;
   D.   Correct and prevent housing conditions that adversely affect or are
likely to adversely affect the life, safety, general welfare and health,
including the physical, mental and social well-being of persons occupying
rental dwellings; and
   E.   Preserve the value of land and buildings throughout the City, and thus
protect the City's tax base.
Nothing in this chapter is intended to replace or supersede the State of
Illinois' regulation of real estate agents or those licensed for property
leasing. (Ord. 22-O-46, 9-6-2022)
4.13.2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the terms defined in the International Property
Maintenance Code (IPMC), 2015 edition, as currently adopted with any amendments
by the City, or any other International Property Maintenance Code edition, with
or without amendments, as may be adopted by the City in the future, shall
apply, except as otherwise indicated.
AFFILIATED BUSINESS ENTITY: Any entity that owns or controls rental units in
the City that is under the ownership or control of an individual or business
entity that owns or controls other rental units within the City, whether under
the same or different business entity names. Entities subject to the Illinois
Real Estate License Act shall not be treated as affiliated business entities
when operating in their regulated capacity under that Act.
LOCAL CONTACT: A person, firm, or corporation designated by the owner of a
rental unit to manage the rental unit on a day-to-day basis, and that is
empowered to perform maintenance and repairs to any rental unit as necessary
for compliance with this Code and applicable law. Designating a local contact
does not relieve a rental unit owner from responsibility for compliance with
all applicable City Codes or other responsibilities associated with ownership
of a rental unit. The designated local contact must live within thirty (30)
miles of the City, unless at least one rental unit owner satisfies this
qualification. Any person thus representing the rental unit owner shall be
bound to comply with the provisions of this chapter and the rules and
regulations pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if they were the rental
unit owner and must accept all service of notice on behalf of the rental unit
owner.
RENTAL UNIT: Any residential property in the City that the owner thereof lets,
either entirely or in part, to another person for occupancy as a dwelling unit,
but excluding buildings, structures and uses registered and inspected by the
State of Illinois or the federal government.
RENTAL UNIT OWNER: The rental unit owner is the person(s) who last paid
property taxes on a rental unit, or the property in which the rental unit is
located in the case of multi-unit buildings, as reflected in the tax records of
the McHenry County Treasurer, unless updated ownership information has been
provided to the City by the current property owner. (Ord. 22-O-46, 9-6-2022)
4.13.3: CODE COMPLIANCE REQUIRED FOR ALL RENTAL UNITS:
Every rental unit in the City shall be owned, operated and maintained in full
compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes and regulations of the City 1
and laws of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 22-O-46, 9-6-2022)
 
Notes
  1. The primary code provisions associated with building operations and
  maintenance can be found in the City Code (but are not limited to) the
1 following: Title 4, Chapter 1 (Nuisances); Title 4, Chapter 1, Article A
  (tree protection); Title 4, Chapter 4 (Fire Prevention); Title 4, Chapter 5
  (Residential Maintenance Code), and Title 7 (Building Regulations).
4.13.4: REGISTRATION REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN RENTAL UNIT OWNERS:
   A.   Registration Required After Two (2) Findings Of Violation In Six (6)
Months: Any rental unit owner who has been found or adjudicated liable (or who
has otherwise accepted liability) of two (or more) violations of the City's
code (related to an individual rental unit or building) within the preceding
six (6) month period must register with the City. Any six (6) month period
shall be calculated starting from the date of citation issuance, and not from
the date of the finding of liability. 1
   B.   Registration Required After Owning A Dwelling Unit Unfit For Human
Occupancy: Any rental unit owner who has been found or adjudicated liable (or
who has otherwise accepted liability) of owning a dwelling unit that is unfit
for human occupancy under the IPMC, Section 108.1.3 (as may be amended) must
register with the City. 2
   C.   Affiliated Business Entities Must Also Register: A rental unit owner
who is required to register under this provision must also ensure that all
affiliated business entities of that rental unit owner also register under each
of those business names so that the City can identify all rental units for
which that individual or entity is responsible.
   D.   Deadline For Registration: A rental unit owner who is required to
register must do so within thirty (30) days of receiving a notice from the City
of their obligation to register (and to register any affiliated business entity
as required by this section). In the event a rental unit owner appeals to the
Circuit Court the relevant finding or adjudication of liability made by the
City's Code Hearing Officer, then the time-period for registering shall be
extended either until a judgment finding liability is issued by the Circuit
Court or the appeal is otherwise dismissed or no longer pursued by the rental
unit owner.
   E.   Required Registration Information: At a minimum, each rental unit owner
must provide the following information to the City:
      1.   Name, address, and contact information of rental unit owner. If the
rental unit is owned in any manner by a non-individual, such as through a
partnership, corporation, LLC or trust, contact information for a responsible
party must be included.
      2.   Name, address, and contact information of designated local contact,
if any. statement authorizing the City to serve notice on the local contact of
any matters related to this chapter and to enforcement of the City's Code of
Ordinances.
      3.   At least one local twenty four (24) hour property contact
information for an available rental unit owner if someone other than the rental
unit owner or local contact. This contact person must be able to contact the
rental unit owner or local contact in case of an emergency.
      4.   Address of each rental unit in the City owned or controlled by
rental unit owner (and any affiliated entity) and Property Identification
Number (PIN) for each property. Identification and address of any rental units
owned or controlled by any affiliated entity of rental unit owner clearly
identifying such rental units and ownership name.
      5.   Number of individual rental units within a building, if more than
one.
      6.   Any other information as requested by the City.
   F.   Termination Of Obligation To Register: There is no ongoing obligation
to repeatedly register once the required information has been provided to the
City. (Ord. 22-O-46, 9-6-2022)
 
Notes
  2. See the City's Municipal Code, Title 1, Chapter 7, Article L (Code Hearing
1 Department), as may be subsequently amended, for the procedures for objecting
  to a citation for a code violation and for findings or adjudications of
  liability.
  1. See the City's Municipal Code, Title 1, Chapter 7, Article L (Code Hearing
2 Department), as may be subsequently amended, for the procedures for objecting
  to a citation for a code violation and for findings or adjudications of
  liability.
4.13.5: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN RENTAL UNIT OWNERS:
   A.   Rental Permit Required After Four (4) Findings Of Violation In Twelve
(12) Months Or When Unfit For Human Occupancy: Any rental unit owner who has
been found or adjudicated liable (or who has otherwise accepted liability) of:
      1.   Four (4) or more violations of the City's code related to an
individual rental unit within the preceding twelve (12) month period; or
      2.   Owning a dwelling unit that is unfit for human occupancy under the
IPMC, Section 108.1.3 (as may be amended).
must obtain a permit from the City as a condition of the ongoing right to offer
rental units within the City to the public for rent. Any twelve (12) month
period shall be calculated starting from the date of citation issuance, and not
from the date of the finding of liability. 1
   B.   Affiliated Business Entities Must Also Obtain A Permit: A rental unit
owner who is required to obtain a permit under this provision must also ensure
that all affiliated business entities obtain a permit under each business name
so that the City can identify and inspect all rental units for which that
individual or entity is responsible. The goal of this provision is to ensure
that any rental unit under the control of a violating entity or individual can
be inspected to ensure the safety of the residents and the upkeep of the rental
units.
Deadline For Permit Application: A rental unit owner who is required to obtain
a rental permit from the City must submit an application for such a permit
within thirty (30) days of receiving a notice by the City of their obligation
to obtain a permit (and must also apply in that time period to obtain a permit
for any affiliated business entities). In the event a rental unit owner appeals
to the Circuit Court the relevant finding or adjudication of liability made by
the City's Code Hearing Officer, then the time-period for registering shall be
extended either until a judgment finding liability is issued by the Circuit
Court or the appeal is otherwise dismissed or no longer pursued by the rental
unit owner. (Ord. 22-O-46, 9-6-2022)
 
Notes
  1. See the City's Municipal Code, Title 1, Chapter 7, Article L (Code Hearing
1 Department), as may be subsequently amended, for the procedures for objecting
  to a citation for a code violation and for findings or adjudications of
  liability.
4.13.6: PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Any rental unit owner who is required to apply for a permit pursuant to
this chapter must obtain a permit to be eligible to offer for rent any rental
unit within the City of Woodstock. Permits are issued to rental unit owners and
not to individual rental units.
   B.   Permits shall be conditioned on acceptable inspections demonstrating
rental unit compliance (of both the interior and exterior) with all applicable
provisions of the City's Code.
   C.   Within two (2) weeks of receipt of a completed permit application
required by the City, the City's Department of Building and Zoning shall
schedule an inspection of all rental units owned by the applicant.
   D.   If the permit application is incomplete, or the applicant does not meet
the requirements of the permitting process within sixty (60) days of the
submittal date, the application will be canceled, and applicant must re-apply.
   E.   Permits must be renewed annually unless a permit holder can demonstrate
that they have become exempt from the City's permit requirements. Permit
renewals shall be filed at least forty five (45) days prior to any existing
permit expiration date. (Ord. 22-O-46, 9-6-2022)
4.13.7: PERMIT INSPECTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Inspection Required For A Permit: All rental units owned or controlled
by a rental unit owner (and any affiliated entity) who is required to obtain a
permit may be inspected by the City for the purpose of determining compliance
with the City Code. The original unit that triggered the inspection requirement
shall be subject to inspection. In addition, when the rental unit owner (and
any affiliated entity) owns or controls eight (8) or fewer rental units, all of
those units shall be subject to inspection. For rental unit owners (and any
affiliated entities) who own or control in excess of eight (8) units, the
original unit then up to twenty five percent (25%) of the remaining units owned
or controlled by the rental unit owner shall be subject to inspection by the
City (but no less than eight (8) units at a minimum if twenty five percent
(25%) of the total units equals less than eight (8) units). These shall be
selected by the City. Notwithstanding the twenty five percent (25%) inspection
requirement above, if the City has a reasonable basis for believing that
specific units are in violation of the City's Code, the City may include those
units in the first eight (8) plus twenty five percent (25%) of units inspected
and may inspect in excess of that amount if the City has a reasonable basis for
believing violations exist in such units. Upon the request of a landlord and
subject to (i) the availability of a City Building Inspector and (ii) the
landlord paying costs consistent with this chapter, the City may conduct
inspections of more than twenty five percent (25%) of the units annually.
   B.   Inspection Scheduling: The City's Building and Zoning Department shall
work with the rental unit owner to schedule inspections of the Rental Unit(s)
during reasonable hours and with reasonable notice to the rental unit owner and
any tenants.
   C.   Inspection Termination: Inspections shall take place annually until
twelve months have passed without a finding of liability for any violation of
the Code of Ordinances of Woodstock and the laws of the State of Illinois
related to the original rental unit in question.
   D.   Inspection Costs:
      1.   Rental unit owners subject to permitting shall not be responsible
for City costs associated with an initial inspection of any rental unit or a
follow-up re-inspection of any rental unit or with annual re-inspections.
      2.   If additional re-inspections are necessary, the rental unit owner
shall be responsible for any inspection costs after the initial re-inspection
of each rental unit.
      3.   In the event the City staff undertakes any such re-inspection (after
the initial inspection and re-inspection), the rental unit owner shall pay a
flat fee of forty dollars ($40.00) for each additional inspection per rental
unit including for any additional violations found in the course of any re-
inspection. The City may hire third party inspectors as the Director of
Building and Zoning deems appropriate for special purposes (such as to examine
matters outside the expertise or access of the City's regular building
inspector) for such inspections or re-inspections, and the reasonable cost to
the City for any second or subsequent re-inspection in such case shall be
passed on to the rental unit owner. (Ord. 22-O-46, 9-6-2022)
4.13.8: INSPECTION ACCESS:
   A.   The City representative shall present evidence of official capacity to
the rental unit owner or their agent, tenant(s), and occupant(s) of a
respective rental unit.
      1.   No permit may be issued or renewed unless the rental unit owner
permits inspections to be made of rental units that are subject to inspection
pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   The rental unit owner or their local contact shall be responsible
for informing their tenants of any scheduled inspection or re-inspection of any
residential rental unit; and they shall be responsible for requesting
permission from any person whose consent is necessary for the City's inspector
to enter the property, whether or not that person is at home at the time of the
inspection or re-inspection.
   B.   The City shall provide at least five (5) days' notice to the rental
unit owner, with copies that the owner must provide to the tenant, on a form
provided by the City, of the tenant's right to refuse consent to the permitting
inspection and to require the City to obtain an administrative search warrant.
   C.   If any rental unit owner, affiliated entity, tenant, occupant or other
person in control and/or possession and whose consent to inspect is necessary
concerning a residential rental unit (or any part thereof) fails or refuses to
consent to access and entry to the property or dwelling unit under his or her
control for any permitting inspection required by this chapter, the City may
apply to the circuit court for an administrative search warrant. The
application for the administrative search warrant shall specify the basis upon
which the warrant is being sought and shall include a statement that the
inspection shall be limited to a determination whether there are any violations
of the standards of the City related to obtaining a permit. Except in case
where the rental unit owner or an affiliated entity has prevented access to a
rental unit, during the pendency of any such warrant request to the Circuit
Court, the time deadlines provided for in this chapter shall be tolled until a
ruling on the request has been issued. In the event the City does not seek an
administrative search warrant or the City's request for an administrative
search warrant is denied, the City shall not use the lack of an inspection as a
basis for denial of compliance.
   D.   Nothing set forth herein shall limit the right of a tenant to grant the
City access to the dwelling unit.
   E.   With the consent of the tenant, the rental unit owner or their agent
may be present at the rental unit at the scheduled inspection time. (Ord. 22-O-
46, 9-6-2022)
4.13.9: PERMIT CONDITIONS, REVOCATION AND DENIAL:
   A.   Grounds For Permit Action: The City Department of Building and Zoning
may impose conditions on a permit, revoke a permit, or refuse to issue a new
permit or to renew an existing permit on any of the following grounds:
      1.   False statements, misrepresentations, or fraudulent statements on
any application or other information or report required by this chapter to be
given by the applicant or permittee.
      2.   Failure to pay any fine or penalty, re-inspection fees, sewer and
water bill, or other financial claims due to the City as required by City Code
(though in the case of unpaid sewer or water bills owed initially by a tenant,
the City may issue a conditional permit, but may not revoke or refuse to issue
a permit solely on that ground until such time as fifteen (15) days have
elapsed since the City has followed its procedures for filing a notice of
delinquency to the rental unit owner pursuant to subsection
6.4D.9G.
      3.   Failure to operate or maintain any rental unit in conformity with
all applicable City Ordinances; or failure to correct deficiencies noted in any
inspection report notice or action plan in the time specified by the City.
      4.   Failure to comply with the provisions of an approved action plan or
not submitting an action plan if required by the City.
      5.   The presence of or failure to eliminate imminent health and life
safety hazards as determined by the City, or its authorized representatives.
      6.   The abandonment of the property by the rental unit owner as
determined by the inability to make contact with the rental unit owner or his/
her designated agent using the contact information provided by them to the
City.
   B.   Authority Of Director Of Building And Zoning Regarding Permits:
      1.   If required inspections of an applicant's rental unit(s) are
satisfactory and all other conditions of this Section have been met, the
Director of Building and Zoning shall issue a permit to the applicant. In
situations where the original violating unit and additional units are subject
to inspection pursuant to section
4.13.7, the Director of Building and Zoning shall not issue an unconditional
permit until such time as all units subject to section
4.13.7 have been satisfactorily inspected.
      2.   In the event the inspection of a rental unit reveals deficiencies so
that the rental unit Owner is not eligible for the issuance of an unconditional
permit, the Director of Building and Zoning shall give due regard to the
frequency and seriousness of violations, the ease with which such violations
could have been cured or avoided and good faith efforts to comply, and shall
issue written findings and a decision to either revoke or deny a permit or to
issue a conditional permit.
   C.   Conditional Permitting: Following an initial inspection that finds
violations under this chapter, the City's Director of Building and Zoning may
issue a permit subject to compliance with an action plan to ensure the rental
unit or units are brought into compliance in a timely manner. The action plan
may impose a designated time frame during which steps must be taken to correct
identified violations and specify the measures to be taken by the rental unit
owner to ensure ongoing compliance with City Ordinances and laws of the State
of Illinois. A conditional permit and action plan may also be appropriate in
cases in which a violation cannot be corrected in a timely manner, such as
because winter must pass before something can be done, in which case the
conditional permit shall include a specific deadline for completion of the
necessary improvements. In all cases, a conditional permit may not be issued
when life safety issues are involved.
   D.   Revoke Or Deny A Permit: The Director of Building and Zoning may revoke
or refuse to issue a permit for a rental unit owner (or may deny the right to
rent specific units owned by the rental unit owner) under the following
conditions:
      1.   If a rental unit owner has failed to comply with an action plan and
is not reasonably progressing to fully comply; or
      2.   If, upon re-inspection of any rental unit, including those whose
owners hold a conditional permit, the Building and Zoning Department determines
that a rental unit (i) continues to fail to comply with the provisions of the
Code of Ordinances of Woodstock and is not reasonably progressing to fully
comply, or (ii) poses imminent life safety concerns; or
      3.   If a unit that had previously been in violation that was remedied
subsequently falls back into non-compliance within six (6) months of the re-
issue of a permit and is subsequently adjudicated liable. (Ord. 22-O-46, 9-6-
2022)
4.13.10: CONSEQUENCES OF PERMIT REVOCATION OR DENIAL:
   A.   In the event that a permit is revoked or denied, it shall be unlawful
for the rental unit owner (or any affiliated entity) to thereafter permit any
new occupancies of any vacant or subsequently vacated rental units or any newly
acquired rental units until such time as a valid permit has been obtained by
the rental unit owner.
   B.   If in the judgment of the City's Building and Zoning Director it is in
the public's interest or the interest of tenants of the rental unit owner (or
affiliated entity), the Building and Zoning Director may, but is not required
to, permit a rental unit owner (or affiliated entity) who has failed to obtain
a permit to continue to operate other rental units owned or controlled by the
rental unit owner (or affiliated entity) if those units have been inspected and
found to be operating in compliance with City Codes. However, all such other
rental units are subject to regular inspection by the City until such time as
the rental unit owner's permit has been obtained and any applicable other
requirements of this chapter have been met.
   C.   Permits that have been revoked or denied will not be reinstated until
the rental unit owner has applied for and secured a new permit that satisfies
all terms of this chapter, including any conditions imposed at the time of
revocation or denial, and any terms of any action plan imposed by the City.
   D.   In the event that a rental unit is required to be vacated under this
chapter, the City also shall post notices on all entrances to the affected
rental unit(s) stating that the rental unit must be vacated within sixty (60)
days if the Building and Zoning Director has determined that the violation(s)
do not place the tenant in imminent danger of harm. If, however, the Building
and Zoning Director determines that the violations do place the tenant in
imminent danger of harm, the Building and Zoning Director shall order the
rental unit vacated immediately.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to modify or supersede any of
the City's code provisions, including its Building and Fire Safety Codes and
any water service rules, nor shall it prevent the City from issuing citations
or "red tagging" a property and prohibiting occupancy under any of those Code
provisions when life safety issues are present in a rental unit property. (Ord.
22-O-46, 9-6-2022)
4.13.11: RIGHT TO APPEAL REVOCATION, DENIAL OR CONDITIONING OF A PERMIT:
Any applicant who objects to the decision of the Director of Building and
Zoning regarding a permit application may, within fifteen (15) business days,
request the opportunity for an appeal to the City Manager before final action
to revoke or deny a permit or to issue a conditional permit. An applicant may
appeal the decision of the City Manager to the Circuit Court, and action on the
decision will be tolled during the pendency of such an appeal. This right to
appeal, however, shall not prevent the City from issuing citations or "red
tagging" a property and prohibiting occupancy under any other provisions of the
City Code when life safety issues are present in a rental unit property. (Ord.
22-O-46, 9-6-2022)
4.13.12: REGULATION OF NEWLY ACQUIRED AND RECENTLY SOLD RENTAL UNITS; UPDATED
INFORMATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Treatment Of Newly Acquired Properties With Existing Violations:
      1.   If a rental unit owner acquires an additional rental unit for which
the previous owner has been adjudicated liable or otherwise held responsible
for violations of the City's code in the preceding twelve (12) months in a
manner that would subject them to the City's registration or permitting
requirements, the rental unit owner shall be responsible for registering or
obtaining a permit associated only with that newly acquired unit or units.
      2.   The permit obligation required by this section shall continue until
the new owner has passed an inspection by the City showing that any pre-
existing violations have been corrected. Inspection shall be undertaken as
provided in this chapter.
      3.   This provision will not subject the balance of the otherwise exempt
rental unit owner's properties to registration or inspection under this
chapter, but only those newly acquired rental units that have been the subject
of violations in the preceding twelve (12) months as described in this section
shall be required to be the subject of any registration or inspection process.
   B.   Sale Of A Rental Unit: Rental unit owners subject to registration,
permitting and inspection who sell or relinquish ownership of all rental units,
who permanently cease renting their rental units, or who otherwise become
exempt from the permitting requirement, must provide proof of the same to the
City before they may be relieved of the duty to register and/or obtain a
permit.
   C.   Updating Information With The City: Every rental unit owner subject to
registration or a permit requirement under this chapter, shall give notice in
writing to the Department of Building and Zoning within ten (10) business days
after any change of the information required by this chapter or upon the
acquisition of any new units. (Ord. 22-O-46, 9-6-2022)
4.13.13: NO RETALIATION:
No rental unit owner shall evict, threaten to evict, or take any other punitive
action against any tenant by reason of good faith contact made by such tenant
to the City for any reason including, but not limited to, those related to code
enforcement matters. This section shall not prohibit the eviction of tenants
from a rental unit for unlawful conduct of a tenant or invitee, or violation of
any rules, regulations, or lease terms other than any lease term containing a
prohibition or limitation against contacting the City for any reason including,
but not limited to, those related to code enforcement matters. (Ord. 22-O-46,
9-6-2022)
4.13.14: FALSELY REPORTING VIOLATIONS:
No person shall report a violation of this chapter or City Ordinance knowing or
having reason to know that the report is false with the intent to affect the
registration, permit status or inspection schedule of the property. (Ord. 22-O-
46, 9-6-2022)
4.13.15: TENANT RESPONSIBILITIES:
A tenant must comply with applicable City Codes and all applicable local,
state, and federal laws and ordinances related to their occupancy of any rental
unit. (Ord. 22-O-46, 9-6-2022)
4.13.16: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   The Director of the City's Office of Building and Zoning and the
Director's designees (including third party building inspectors) shall
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter and are further hereby
authorized to cause inspections for rental units, and other buildings when
reason exists to believe that a violation of this chapter has been or is being
committed.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any portion of this chapter,
shall be fined in accordance with section
1.4.1 of this City Code for each offense plus the City's cost of prosecution
including, but not limited to, its attorneys' fees. Each day that a violation
continues or persists shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Unless otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter, the City
shall initiate adjudication procedures in accordance with Title 1, Chapter 7,
Article L of this Code to settle contested matter(s), to achieve compliance
with this chapter, to assess penalties and fines, and to collect outstanding
obligations.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the City's authority to pursue
enforcement of the City's Code at any time. Nothing in this chapter however is
deemed to limit other remedies or civil penalties available to the City under
this Code or state law. (Ord. 22-O-46, 9-6-2022)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF THE ROAD
SECTION:
5.1.1: Adoption And Incorporation By Reference Of The Illinois Vehicle Code
(Rules Of The Road)
5.1.2: Penalties
5.1.3: Careless Driving
5.1.1: ADOPTION AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE OF THE ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE
(RULES OF THE ROAD):
Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-204 of the Illinois vehicle
code, the city adopts and incorporates by reference all paragraphs and sections
of the Illinois vehicle code and subsequent amendments, excluding chapter 12,
as if fully set forth herein as the city of Woodstock vehicle code. The section
numbers used in the Illinois vehicle code shall be identical to those section
numbers in the city of Woodstock vehicle code. (Ord. 16-O-17, 3-15-2016)
5.1.2: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of the Illinois vehicle code as adopted by
the city pursuant to section
5.1.1 of this chapter shall be subject to one or more of the following
dispositions as are authorized for such offense by the Illinois vehicle code
and Illinois unified code of corrections, any subsequent amendments thereto and
as may be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction:
   A.   A maximum fine as authorized by reference to the Illinois vehicle code;
and/or
   B.   A term of incarceration, either periodic or continuous, in a penal
institution other than the penitentiary for a period not to exceed three
hundred sixty four (364) days as authorized by reference to the Illinois
vehicle code; and/or
   C.   A term of suspension or conditional discharge as authorized by
reference to the Illinois vehicle code and the Illinois unified code of
corrections; and/or
   D.   Mandatory community service; and/or
   E.   Such other disposition as authorized by reference to the Illinois
vehicle code. (Ord. 16-O-17, 3-15-2016)
5.1.3: CARELESS DRIVING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive carelessly within the city. For
purposes of this section, "careless driving" is failure to maintain a vehicle
under control, exceeding the posted speed limit by more than ten (10) miles per
hour or operating a vehicle in any manner other than as permitted by law. Any
person who violates any provision of this section may have conditions imposed
by the court, including, but not limited to, victim impact panel, attendance at
traffic safety school, drug and alcohol substance abuse counseling and payment
of applicable fines, not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord.
13-O-17, 2-19-2013)
CHAPTER 2
EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
5.2.1: Adoption And Incorporation By Reference Of The Illinois Vehicle Code
(Equipment)
5.2.2: Penalties
5.2.1: ADOPTION AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE OF THE ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE
(EQUIPMENT):
Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-204 of the Illinois vehicle
code, the city adopts and incorporates by reference chapter 12 of the Illinois
vehicle code and subsequent amendments as chapter 12 of the city of Woodstock
vehicle code as if fully set forth herein. The section numbers used in chapter
12 of the Illinois vehicle code shall be identical to those section numbers in
chapter 12 of the city of Woodstock vehicle code. (Ord. 16-O-17, 3-15-2016)
5.2.2: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of the Illinois vehicle code as adopted by
the city pursuant to section
5.2.1 of this chapter shall be subject to one or more of the following
dispositions as are authorized for such offense by the Illinois vehicle code
and Illinois unified code of corrections, any subsequent amendments thereto and
as may be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction:
   A.   A maximum fine as authorized by reference to the Illinois vehicle code;
and/or
   B.   A term of incarceration, either periodic or continuous, in a penal
institution other than the penitentiary for a period not to exceed three
hundred sixty four (364) days as authorized by reference to the Illinois
vehicle code; and/or
   C.   A term of suspension or conditional discharge as authorized by
reference to the Illinois vehicle code and the Illinois unified code of
corrections; and/or
   D.   Mandatory community service; and/or
   E.   Such other disposition as authorized by reference to the Illinois
vehicle code. (Ord. 16-O-17, 3-15-2016)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
5.3.1: Schedule I Speed Limits
5.3.2: Schedule II One-Way Streets And Alleys
5.3.3: Schedule III Through Streets
5.3.4: Schedule IV Stop Streets
5.3.5: Schedule V Yield Right-Of-Way Intersections
5.3.6: Schedule VI Truck Routes
5.3.7: Schedule VII No Parking Places
5.3.8: Schedule VIII Time Limit Parking
5.3.9: Schedule IX Handicapped Parking
5.3.10: Schedule X Snow Routes
5.3.11: Schedule XI Loading Zones
5.3.12: Schedule XII Bicycle Lanes
5.3.13: Additional Parking Restrictions
5.3.14: Off Street Parking Facilities Established
5.3.15: Parking Lot Regulations
5.3.16: All Night Parking
5.3.17: Temporary No Parking Zones And Temporary Road And Sidewalk Closures And
Uses
5.3.18: Signs Posted
5.3.19: Operation Of Motor Vehicles
5.3.20: Penalties
5.3.1: SCHEDULE I SPEED LIMITS:
It is hereby determined upon the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation that the speed permitted by State law upon the following streets
is less than or greater than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist upon such streets and it is hereby declared that the maximum speed
limit shall be as herein set forth on those streets or parts of streets herein
designated when signs are erected giving notice thereof:
Street From To Max. Permitted Speed (mph)
Street              From                To                  Max. Permitted
                                                            Speed (mph)
Ashley Court        Twelve Oaks Parkway End of street       25
Bach Court          Haydn Street        End                 25
                    Tanager             1,000' to the east  35
                    Tanager Drive       1,500' east         35
Banford Road        1,000' to the east  2,000' to the east  45
                    of Tanager          of Tanager
                    1,500' to the east  Queen Anne Road     45
                    of Tanager
Barn Swallow Drive  Tanager             Redwing             25
Benton              Van Buren           Church              20
Brahms Lane         North terminus      South terminus      25
                    North of Illinois   Terminus of         30
Broadway Avenue     Route 120           Broadway Avenue
                    Illinois Route 120  North terminus      25
Cass                Benton              Throop              20
Castle Road         Illinois Route 47   South to City       35
                                        limits
Castlebar Trail     Moraine Drive       Westwood Trail      25
Center Street       Illinois Route 47   The east            25
Chopin Lane         Verdi Street        Haydn Street        25
                    Illinois Route 47   Zimmerman           30
Country Club Road   1,600' west of Club City limits         40
                    Road
Davis Court         Fremont Street      Lake Avenue         20
Davis Road          Dean Street         Illinois Route 47   40
Dean                South Street        Van Buren           20
                    Kimball             South City limits   35
                    Davis Road          1,000' to the south 35
Dean Street         Lucas Road          3,300' north        40
                    1,000' south of     2,000' south of     45
                    Davis Road          Davis Road
Donegal Court       Castlebar Trail     End                 25
Doty Road           U.S. Route 14       Southerly City      40
                                        limits
Dublin Court        Castlebar Trail     End                 25
East Longwood Drive Country Club Road   Hillcrest Road      25
Ellen Court         Sharon Drive        End of street       25
Fairview Circle     Sanctuary Drive     Fairview Lane       25
Fairview Lane       Greenview Drive     Preswick Lane       25
Flagg Lane          Entire length of                       25
                    roadway
Greenview Drive     McConnell Road      Serenity Lane       25
Greenwood Avenue    Raffel Road         West terminus       25
Greenwood Circle    Route 47            Greenwood           25
Handel Lane         Schumann Street     Verdi Street        25
Haydn Street        Ware Road           Raffel Road         25
Hickman Lane        McHenry Avenue      Flagg Lane          25
Hillcrest Road      East Longwood Drive Fairview Lane       25
Hillside Trail      Westwood Trail      End                 25
Infanta Court       Castlebar Trail     End                 25
Irving Avenue       Illinois Route 47   Illinois Route 120  40
Jackson             Throop              Johnson             20
                    Benton              Madison             20
Jefferson           Church              South               25
Johnson             Cass                Calhoun             20
Kishwaukee Valley                       Jackson Street
Road                U.S. Route 14       entrance to         40
                                        Emricson Park
                                        400' east of the
                    South Street        easterly right of   35
                                        way of Dick Tracy
                                        Way
Lake Avenue         U.S. Route 14       Illinois Route 47   40
                    400' east of the
                    easterly right of   Illinois Route 47   40
                    way line of Dick
                    Tracy Way
Lawrence Avenue     Dean Street         Jefferson Street    25
Leah Lane           Country Club Road   Zimmerman Road      30
                                        City limits south
Lily Pond Road      U.S. Route 14       of Union Pacific    45
                                        Railroad
Linda Court         Timothy Lane        End of street       25
Main                Church              Cass                20
                    Illinois Route 47   Halma Lane          30
McConnell Road      Halma Lane          City limits         35
                    Applewood Drive     1,300' to the east  45
Moraine Court       Moraine Drive       Moraine Drive       25
Moraine Drive       South Street        End                 25
North Rose Farm     U.S. Route 14       City limits         50
Road
Nuthatch Drive      Tanager             The east            25
Oak View Court      Oak View Terrace    End                 25
Oak View Terrace    Westwood Trail      Moraine Drive       25
Preswick Lane       Greenview Drive     Redtail Drive       25
                    Banford Road        Ware Road           40
                    Ware Road           2,750' north of     40
Raffel Road                             Haydn
                    Illinois Route 120  Banford Road        30
                    2,750' north of     North city limits   45
                    Haydn
Redwing Drive       Banford             Tanager             25
Rhett Place         Twelve Oaks Parkway Scarlett Way        25
Rose Court          Sharon Drive        End of street       25
Ryan Court          Westwood Trail      End                 25
Sanctuary Drive     McConnell Road      Fairview Circle     25
Scarlett Way        Twelve Oaks Parkway Rhett Place         25
Schubert Street     Haydn Street        Verdi Street        25
Schuette Drive      Sharon Drive        McHenry Avenue      25
Schumann Street     Vivaldi Street      Verdi Street        25
Seneca Court        Westwood Trail      End                 25
Serenity Lane       Greenview Drive     End                 25
Sharon Drive        McHenry Avenue      Ellen Court         25
                    Hill                Tara Drive          35
                                        Westerly
                    Tara Drive          intersection Duvall 35
South Street                            Drive
                    Westerly
                    intersection Duvall Serenity Drive      40
                    Drive
Sparrow Drive       Tanager             The east            25
Strauss Court       Verdi Street        End                 25
Tanager Drive       Banford             Redwing             25
Tappan Street       Greenwood           Meadow              25
Timothy Lane        Ellen Court         Sharon Drive        25
Trinity Court       Westwood Trail      End                 25
Twelve Oaks Parkway St. Johns Road      Scarlett Way        25
Van Buren           Johnson             Benton              20
Verdi Court         Haydn Street        End                 25
Verdi Street        Haydn Street        Brahms Lane         25
Vivaldi Street      Ware Road           Haydn Street        25
Walnut Drive        Clay Street         Clay Street         25
Ware Road           Illinois Route 47   Raffel Road         40
West Longwood Drive East Longwood Drive Hillcrest Road      25
Westwood Trail      Moraine Drive       Castlebar Trail     25
Zimmerman Road      McConnell           Country Club        30
 
(Ord. 890, 9-15-1970; amd. Ord. 1567, 2-5-1980; Ord. 2001, 9-2-1986; Ord. 2068,
10-20-1987; Ord. 2235, 1-2-1990; Ord. 2619, 4-2-1996; Ord. 2693, 8-5-1997; Ord.
98-O-35, 6-16-1998; Ord. 98-O-36, 6-16-1998; Ord. 98-O-55, 10-20-1998; Ord. 99-
O-50, 9-7-1999; Ord. 00-O-41, 9-5-2000; Ord. 01-O-34, 10-2-2001; Ord. 02-O-40,
6-18-2002; Ord. 02-O-58, 9-3-2002; Ord. 02-O-98, 11-5-2002; Ord. 03-O-34, 5-6-
2003; Ord. 04-O-90, 10-5-2004; Ord. 05-O-71, 7-19-2005; Ord. 05-O-84, 9-6-2005;
Ord. 06-O-14, 2-21-2006; Ord. 06-O-21, 3-21-2006; Ord. 07-O-32, 4-3-2007; Ord.
07-O-55, 6-5-2007; Ord. 07-O-64, 6-19-2007; Ord. 08-O-38, 6-17-2008; Ord. 08-O-
69, 11-18-2008; Ord. 09-O-54, 8-18-2009; Ord. 09-O-55, 8-18-2009; Ord. 10-O-23,
5-4-2010; Ord. 11-O-45, 8-2-2011; Ord. 11-O-51, 9-20-2011;  Ord. 13-O-26, 5-7-
2013; Ord. 16-O-48, 8-16-2016; Ord. 24-O-59, 10-15-2024)
5.3.2: SCHEDULE II ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
Street From To Permitted Direction Of Travel
Street          From                   To                Permitted Direction Of
                                                         Travel
Benton          Church                 Van Buren         Northbound
Cass            Throop                 Benton            Westbound
Davis Court     Fremont Street         Lake Avenue       Northbound
Dillard Court   Duncan Place           Duncan Place      Southbound
Duncan Place    Dillard Court          Dillard Court     Northbound
Forest          Putnam                 Blakely           Westbound
                A point 180' north of
                the northerly right of
Halma Lane East way line of McConnell  Halma Lane West   Northbound
                Road at its
                intersection with
                Halma Lane
                                       Its southerly     Westbound and
Halma Lane West Halma Lane East        intersection with southbound
                                       Halma Lane
Johnson         Cass                   Calhoun           Southbound
Main            Church                 Cass              Southbound
Putnam Street   South Street           Forest            Southbound
Van Buren       Johnson                Benton            Eastbound
 
(Ord. 1992, 7-15-1986; amd. Ord. 2444, 11-2-1993; Ord. 2712, 12-16-1997; Ord.
98-O-6, 2-17-1998, eff. 3-30-1998; Ord. 98-O-42, 8-4-1998; Ord. 99-O-35, 6-15-
1999; Ord. 08-O-50, 9-2-2008)
5.3.3: SCHEDULE III THROUGH STREETS:
Those streets and parts of streets herein designated are hereby declared to be
through streets for the purpose of this section:
Street At Intersection With
Street                           At Intersection With
Amsterdam                        Pleasant
Ash Avenue                       Wheeler Street (north)
Banford Road                     Barn Swallow Drive, Barn Swallow Lane, Redwing
                                 Drive
Barbary Lane                     Ginny Lane, Wood Drive, Autumn Drive,
                                 Sandpiper Lane
Becking Avenue                   Conway Street
Beech                            Queen Anne
Benton                           Jackson, Judd
Berltsum Lane                    White Oak Lane, Boulder Court, Boulder Lane
Birch Road                       Julie Street, Charles Street
Blakely                          Forest, Stewart, Ridgeland, Highland, Kimball
Bloomfield Drive                 Jonathon Lane
Bobolink Circle                  Bull Valley Drive
Borden Lane                      Castleshire Drive
Braeburn Way                     Bloomfield Drive, Springwood Drive, Fieldstone
                                 Drive
Brahms Lane                      Verdi Street
Bull Valley Drive                Club Road, Taurus Court, Yellowhead Court,
                                 Bobolink Circle, White Face Court
Bunker                           Burbank, Schryver
Burbank Street                   Jefferson Street
Butterfield Road                 Manke Lane, Powers Road (north), Powers Road
                                 (south), Havens Drive
Calhoun                          Fair, Irving, Nebraska, Douglas, Seminary,
                                 Johnson
Carlisle Drive                   Robert Drive
Castle Road                      Fox Sedge Trail, Waterleaf Lane
Catalpa Lane                     American Avenue
Central Parkway                  Charles Street
Church                           Jefferson, Clay, Benton, Washington
                                 Terry, Cherry, Willow, Walnut, Meadow, Bagley,
Clay                             Donovan, Grove, First, North, Newell,
                                 Hutchins, Bartlett
Club Road                        Bull Valley Drive, Galloway Drive
Cord Grass Trail                 Savanna Grove Lane
                                 Club Road, Dorham Lane, Leah Lane, Zimmerman
Country Club Road                Road, Longwood Drive, East Longwood Drive,
                                 Oakmont Drive
Courtland Street                 Wildmeadow Lane (north and south)
Dane                             Dacy, Pleasant, Becking, Oak, Arthur Drive
                                 Lawrence, Fremont, Tryon, Forest, Hoy,
Dean                             Stewart, Ridgeland, Schryver, Highland,
                                 Kimball, Hickory
Dean Street                      Prairie Ridge Drive, Hercules Road, Bloomfield
                                 Drive
Donovan                          Madison, Queen Anne, Jewett
Donovan Avenue                   Tappan Street
East Lake                        Kilkenny Drive
East Longwood Drive              Longwood Court, West Longwood Drive
Fairview Circle                  Fairview Circle, Sanctuary Drive
Fairview Lane                    Hillcrest Road
Fieldstone Drive                 Braeburn Way, Meadowsedge Drive, Woodworth
                                 Avenue
Flagg Lane                       Hickman Lane
Forest                           Austin, Gould, Putnam, Mitchell, Muriel
Fox Sedge Trail                  Waterleaf Lane
Fremont                          Lawndale, Madison, Bunker, Vine, Davis Court
Galloway Drive                   Berltsum Lane, Ayshire Court
Gerry                            Gerry Court, Hickory Lane
Gerry Street                     Forest, Kimball Avenue, Ridgeland, Stewart
Ginny Lane                       Blue Bonnet Lane, Valerian Lane, Wood Drive,
                                 Acacia, Portage
Golden Avenue                    Amber Court
Gould Street                     Stewart Avenue
Greenview Drive                  Preswick Lane, Fairview Lane, Serenity Lane
Greenwood                        Madison, Wheeler, Queen Anne, Jewett, Thomas
                                 Drive
Handel Lane                      Schumann Street (west)
Harrow Gate Drive                Heron Way, Mallard Lane
Harvey Lane                      Sebastian Drive
Haydn Street                     Verdi Street, Verdi Court, Bach Court, Chopin
                                 Lane, Vivaldi Street, Schubert Lane
Hercules Road                    Jonathon Lane, Braeburn Way, Braeburn Court,
                                 Courtland Street, Macintosh Avenue
Heron Way                        Mallard Lane
Herrington                       Austin
Hickman Lane                     Flagg Lane
Hickory Lane                     Blakely, Mitchell, Muriel Street
Hill                             Quinlan, Conway
Hillcrest Road                   Rolling Hills Drive
Hoy                              Bunker
Jackson                          Douglas, Tryon, Hayward, Oakland
Jefferson                        Judd, Jackson, Calhoun, Lawrence, Griffin,
                                 Hoy, Chestnut, Schryver, Kimball, Oakwood
Jewett                           Beech
Johnson                          Jackson
Judd                             Nebraska, Douglas, Hill, Hayward
Julie Street                     Central Parkway
Kimball                          Bunker, East, Laurel, Hibbard
Kimball Avenue                   Mitchell
Kishwaukee Valley Road           Emricson Park entrance, Borden
Lake Avenue                      Davis Court, Brown, American Avenue
Lincoln                          Dacy
Locust Avenue                    Clay
Longwood Drive                   Hillcrest Road
Lorr Drive                       Tara Drive
Macintosh Avenue                 Shenandoah Lane
Madison                          North, Hutchins, Judd, Jackson, Newell, Vine
Manke Lane                       Yasgur Drive, Woodside Drive, Sebastian Drive,
                                 Roger Road, Havens Drive, Powers Road
Mary Ann                         Anne, Carol Avenue, Lisa
                                 Applewood Lane, Aspen Drive, Duncan Place,
McConnell Road                   Knight Drive, Red Barn Road, Greenview Drive,
                                 Harrow Gate, Heron Way, Oak Ridge Lane,
                                 Sanctuary Drive
Meadow Avenue                    Jewett Street, Queen Anne Street
Meadowsedge Drive                Springwood Drive, Trillium Lane
Moraine Drive                    Westwood Trail, Castlebar Trail
Northhampton Street              Olson Street
Nuthatch Drive                   Martin Drive
Oak                              Amsterdam
Oakmont Drive                    Ridgemoor Trail, Oakmont Court, Redtail Drive
Oakwood Terrace                  Westwood Terrace
Peach Tree Lane                  Hilltop Court
Pleasant                         Lincoln, Quinlan
Portage Lane                     Liberty Lane, Verbena Lane
                                 Clover Chase Circle, Verbena Lane, Ginny Lane
Prairie Ridge Drive              (west), Portage Lane, Acacia Lane, Sandpiper
                                 Lane, County Ridge Square, Indigo Lane,
                                 Savanna Lane
Quail Court                      Fox Lane, Terry Court
Raffel Road                      Marge Lane, Manke Lane
Red Barn Road                    Roller Drive
Redtail                          Preswick
Redwing Drive                    Barn Swallow
Ridgeland                        Muriel
Ridgewood Drive                  Liberty Lane
Roger Road                       Havens Drive, Sweetwater Drive, Powers Road,
                                 Butterfield Road, Harvey Lane
St. Johns Road                   Broadway Court, Poplar Lane, Woodside Drive
Sanctuary Drive                  Rolling Hills Drive
Sandpiper Lane                   Indigo Lane, Country Ridge Square
Savanna Grove Lane               Aster Trail
Savanna Lane                     Southview Drive
Schubert Street                  Brahms Lane
Schuette Drive                   Sharon Drive
Sedge Trail                      Savanna Grove Lane
Seminary                         Hutchins, Church, Judd, Jackson
Serenity Lane                    Roller Drive, Greenview Drive
Sharon Drive                     Flagg Lane, Ellen Court, Timothy Lane, Rose
                                 Court
Shenandoah Lane                  Macintosh Avenue
South Street                     Dakota Drive, Tryon, Hayward, Blakely, Hill
Sparrow Drive                    Martin Drive, Kildeer Drive
Springwood Drive                 Courtland Street
Stewart Avenue                   Muriel Street, Mitchell Street
Summit                           Jewett, Queen Anne
Sweetwater Drive                 Woodside Drive, Quill Lane, Sebastian Drive
                                 (north), Sebastian Drive (south), Yasgur Drive
Tanager Drive                    Barn Swallow, Nuthatch, Sparrow
Tappan                           Meadow, Summit, Terry, Cherry, Ash, Willow
Tara Drive                       Tara Court, Kathleen Court, Greta Avenue,
                                 Golden Avenue
Terry Court                      Island Court, Wicker Street
Thomas Drive                     Regina Court, Victoria Drive, Summit Avenue,
                                 Meadow, Robert, Carlisle Drive
Timothy Lane                     Linda Court
Todd                             Madison, Queen Anne, Jewett, Tappan
Tryon                            Lincoln, Calhoun
U.S. Route 14                    Lake Avenue
Verbena Lane                     Clover Chase Circle
Verdi Street                     Schubert Street, Strauss Court, Chopin Lane,
                                 Handel Lane, Schumann Street
Vivaldi Street                   Verdi Street, Schumann Street
Ware Road                        Haydn Street, Vivaldi Street, Sweetwater Drive
Waterleaf Lane                   Cord Grass Trail, Aster Trail
West Longwood Drive              Ridgemoor Trail
Wheeler                          Beech, Bagley, Donovan, 2nd, 3rd
Wheeler Street                   Ash Avenue (south), North Street, Newell
                                 Street
Wicker                           Todd, Short, Bagley, Donovan, Olive, 3rd,
                                 Railroad, Summit, Beech
Wicker Street                    Fox Lane, Orchard Court, Farm Trail
Wildmeadow Lane                  Shenandoah Lane
Willow Avenue                    Madison
Winslow Circle                   Lorr Drive, Gerry Street
Wood Drive                       Blue Bonnet Lane, Valerian Lane
Woodside Drive                   Marge Lane, Harvey Lane, Yasgur Drive
Woodworth Avenue                 Trillium Lane, Meadowsedge Drive
Yasgur Drive                     Woodside Drive
Zimmerman Road                   Leah Lane
State and U.S. numbered highways All streets
 
(Ord. 890, 9-15-1970; amd. Ord. 1109, 8-20-1974; Ord. 2001, 9-2-1986; Ord.
2068, 10-20-1987; Ord. 2147, 12-6-1988; Ord. 2189, 6-6-1989; Ord. 2226, 12-5-
1989; Ord. 2305, 8-6-1991; Ord. 2369, 10-6-1992; Ord. 2443, 11-2-1993; Ord.
2465, 3-15-1994; Ord. 2532, 2-7-1995; Ord. 2544, 4-18-1995; Ord. 2582, 9-5-
1995; Ord. 2641, 8-6-1996; Ord. 2645, 9-17-1996; Ord. 2692, 8-5-1997; Ord.
2712, 12-16-1997; Ord. 98-O-6, 2-17-1998, eff. 3-30-1998; Ord. 98-O-7, 3-3-
1998; Ord. 98-O-43, 8-4-1998; Ord. 98-O-61, 11-17-1998; Ord. 98-O-62, 11-17-
1998; Ord. 98-O-63, 11-17-1998; Ord. 99-O-7, 2-2-1999; Ord. 99-O-15, 3-16-1999;
Ord. 99-O-61, 11-16-1999; Ord. 00-O-05, 2-1-2000; Ord. 00-O-12, 4-4-2000; Ord.
00-O-49, 10-17-2000; Ord. 00-O-50, 10-17-2000; Ord. 00-O-64, 12-19-2000; Ord.
01-O-34, 10-2-2001; Ord. 01-O-42, 11-20-2001; Ord. 02-O-48, 7-16-2002; Ord. 02-
O-49, 8-6-2002; Ord. 02-O-77, 10-1-2002; Ord. 02-O-109, 12-17-2002; Ord. 03-O-
73, 10-7-2003; Ord. 03-O-84, 12-2-2003; Ord. 04-O-13, 1-20-2004; Ord. 04-O-100,
11-2-2004; Ord. 04-O-108, 12-7-2004; Ord. 05-O-72, 7-19-2005; Ord. 05-O-117,
12-6-2005; Ord. 06-O-46, 6-6-2006; Ord. 06-O-80, 11-7-2006; Ord. 08-O-50, 9-2-
2008; Ord. 08-O-61, 10-7-2008; Ord. 10-O-32, 6-1-2010; Ord. 11-O-55, 10-18-
2011; Ord. 11-O-60, 11-15-2011; Ord. 16-O-49, 9-6-2016; Ord. 17-O-07, 2-7-2017;
Ord. 17-O-28, 4-4-2017; Ord. 17-O-45, 5-2-2017; Ord. 20-O-60, 8-4-2020)
5.3.4: SCHEDULE IV STOP STREETS:
   A.   Two-Way Stop Intersections:
Stop Street At Intersection With
Stop Street                              At Intersection With
Amber Court                              Winslow Avenue
Bigelow Road                             City park main park drive
Brown Street                             Washburn Street
Castle Road                              Cobblestone Way
City park main park drive immediately in
front of the main entrance to the         
swimming pool
City park roadway entrance to central    Main park drive
parking lot
City park roadway entrance to pond area  Main park drive
parking lot
City park roadway entrance to the        Main park drive
recreation building parking lot
City park roadway entrance to the        Roadway entrance to the recreation
softball field parking lot               building parking lot and the main park
                                         drive
Club Road and Queen Anne Road            Country Club Road
Cobblestone Way                          Illinois Route 47
Dane Street                              Borden Street
Davis Court                              Lake Avenue
Dieckman Street                          Illinois Route 47
Duvall                                   South Street
Franklinville Frontage Road              Franklinville Road
Greenwood Avenue                         Wicker Street
Halma Lane West                          McConnell Road
Hickory Road                             St. Johns Road
Jackson Street                           Entrance to the city park at its
                                         intersection with the main park drive
K-Mart shopping center exit              Illinois Route 47, Cobblestone Way
Marvel Avenue                            Park Street
Mary Ann Street                          Pleasant Street
Meadow Street                            Wheeler Street
Mitchell Street                          Ridgeland Avenue
North Street                             Madison Street
Northhampton Street                      Park Street
Oak Street                               Mary Ann Street
Olson Street                             Irving Avenue
Pond Point                               Cobblestone Way, Castle Road
Portage Lane                             Prairie Ridge Drive
Queen Anne Street                        Bagley
Ridgewood Drive                          Dean Street
St. Johns Road                           Raffel Road
Tara Drive                               South Street, Winslow Avenue
Terry Court                              Tappan Street
Walnut Drive                             Willow Avenue
West Avenue                              Oak Street, Carol Avenue
 
(Ord. 1272, 4-6-1976; amd. Ord. 1320, 12-7-1976; Ord. 1321, 12-7-1976; Ord.
1422, 1-17-1978; Ord. 1498, 3-20-1979; Ord. 1531, 7-17-1979; Ord. 1538, 8-21-
1979; Ord. 1679, 8-4-1981; Ord. 1769, 11-16-1982; Ord. 1802, 6-21-1983; Ord.
1819, 12-20-1983; Ord. 2001, 9-2-1986; Ord. 2068, 10-20-1987; Ord. 2147, 12-6-
1988; Ord. 2369, 10-6-1992; Ord. 2532, 2-7-1995; Ord. 2649, 10-1-1996; Ord. 99-
O-61, 11-16-1999; Ord. 04-O-57, 6-15-2004; Ord. 08-O-29, 5-6-2008; Ord. 20-O-
60, 8-4-2020)
   B.   Three-Way, Four-Way And Six-Way Stop Intersections:
Intersection Of Approaches
Intersection Of                               Approaches
Bagley and Tappan                             All
Calhoun and Madison                           North, south, west
Cass and Main                                 All
Church and Madison                            North, east, south
Clay and Todd                                 All
Dean and Calhoun                              All
Dean and South Street                         All
Dean and Van Buren                            All
First and Wheeler                             All
Greenwood and Clay                            All
Greenwood and Tappan                          All
Jackson and Hill                              All
Jackson and Pleasant                          All
Jefferson and Calhoun                         All
Jefferson Street and Freemont Street          All
Judd and Madison                              All
Judd and Pleasant                             All
Judd and Seminary                             All
Lake Street, South Street and Seminary Avenue All
McHenry (Route 120) and Eastwood (Route 47)   All
Meadow Avenue and Wicker Street               All
North Madison and Grove                       All
Prairie Ridge Drive and Ginny Lane (east)     All
Preswick and Fairview                         All
Raffel and Haydn (including park road)        All
South Street, Lake Avenue and Madison Street  All
Throop and Calhoun                            All
Throop and Washington                         All
Throop and West Jackson                       All
Todd and Wheeler                              All
Tryon Street and Judd Street                  All
Wicker and Greenwood                          All
Winslow Avenue and Gerry Street               All
 
(Ord. 890, 9-15-1970; amd. Ord. 1874, 10-16-1984; Ord. 1915, 5-21-1985; Ord.
2001, 9-2-1986; Ord. 2068, 10-20-1987; Ord. 2226, 12-5-1989; Ord. 2465, 3-15-
1994; Ord. 2482, 6-7-1994; Ord. 2641, 8-6-1996; Ord. 98-O-43, 8-4-1998; Ord.
98-O-61, 11-17-1998; Ord. 98-O-62, 11-17-1998; Ord. 98-O-63, 11-17-1998; Ord.
99-O-15, 3-16-1999; Ord. 00-O-49, 10-17-2000; Ord. 00-O-50, 10-17-2000; Ord.
00-O-64, 12-19-2000; Ord. 06-O-46, 6-6-2006; Ord. 08-O-61, 10-7-2008; Ord. 17-
O-45, 5-2-2017; Ord. 20-O-60, 8-4-2020)
   C.   One-Way Stop Intersections:
 
Intersection Of            Approaches
(No entries at this time.)  
 
(Ord. 2443, 11-2-1993; amd. Ord. 00-O-05, 2-1-2000)
5.3.5: SCHEDULE V YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY INTERSECTIONS:
Traffic On Yield To Traffic On
Traffic On                                             Yield To Traffic On
Davis Court                                            Fremont Street
East Beech, westbound                                  North Madison
East Jackson                                           Nebraska
Franklin Road, westbound                               Moraine Drive
North Madison, upon entering into or upon the west leg West leg of East Beech
of East Beech
Regina Court                                           Thomas Drive
Westwood Terrace                                       Oak View Terrace
 
(Ord. 1126, 12-17-1974; amd. Ord. 1227, 8-19-1975; Ord. 1230, 8-19-1975; Ord.
1538, 8-21-1979; Ord. 2001, 9-2-1986; Ord. 2147, 12-6-1988; Ord. 2226, 12-5-
1989; Ord. 2443, 11-2-1993; Ord. 2482, 6-7-1994; Ord. 2582, 9-5-1995; Ord. 00-
O-05, 2-1-2000; Ord. 02-O-48, 7-16-2002; Ord. 06-O-80, 11-7-2006; Ord. 07-O-83,
9-18-2007; Ord. 17-O-28, 4-4-2017; Ord. 20-O-80, 11-3-2020)
5.3.6: SCHEDULE VI TRUCK ROUTES:
Certain streets and highways in the City are hereby designated as truck routes,
and all truck traffic and commercial vehicles shall be restricted to the use of
the streets and highways designated as truck routes except where necessary for
a local delivery and pick up. (Ord. 890, 9-15-1970)
   A.   Truck Routes: The following streets or highways within the City be and
the same are hereby designated as "Class II" truck routes as defined by the
Illinois Vehicle Code and designated by the Illinois Department of
Transportation: (Ord. 2220, 11-7-1989)
Street Or Highway From To
Street Or Highway      From               To
Borden Street          Entire              
Catalpa Lane           Illinois Route 47  Lake Avenue
Claussen Drive         Entire              
Clay Street            Illinois Route 120 Newell Street
Cobblestone Way        Illinois Route 47  U.S. Route 14
Dieckman Road          Entire              
Judd Street            Illinois Route 47  Madison Street
Kilkenny Court         Entire              
Kishwaukee Valley Road U.S. Route 14      Borden Street
Lake Avenue            Illinois Route 47  Cobblestone Way
Lakeshore Drive        Entire              
McConnell Road         Halma Lane         Duncan Place
Newell Street          Illinois Route 120 Clay Street
Techcourt              Entire              
Ware Road              Illinois Route 47  Raffel Road
West Lake Shore Drive  U.S. Route 14      The end
 
(Ord. 2220, 11-7-1989; amd. Ord. 99-O-6, 1-19-1999; Ord. 06-O-70, 9-5-2006;
Ord. 17-O-98, 11-21-2017)
   B.   City Park: The City Park is hereby closed to all vehicles weighing more
than eight thousand (8,000) pounds without special permission by the City
Manager. (Ord. 1291, 7-6-1976)
   C.   Weight Limits: No person shall operate a vehicle of over a gross weight
of eight (8) tons or sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds on any of the following
streets or highways:
Street Or Highway From To
Street Or Highway From                    To
Clay Street       First Street            Terry Court
Dean Street       South Street            Route 14 bypass
Greenwood         Seminary Avenue         Wicker
Irving Avenue     Illinois Route 120      Illinois Route 47
Jackson Street    Tryon                   Borden Drive
Kimball Avenue    Lake Street             Blakely
Lily Pond Road    275' south of the south 795' south of the south railroad
                  railroad right-of-way   right-of-way
North Street      Seminary                Clay
Pleasant Street   Jackson Street          Mary Ann
South Street      Tryon                   West limits
Wheeler           First Street            Greenwood
Wicker Street     Donovan                 Greenwood Avenue
 
(Ord. 1018, 3-20-1973; amd. Ord. 17-O-98, 11-21-2017; Ord. 18-O-17, 2-20-2018)
5.3.7: SCHEDULE VII NO PARKING PLACES 1 :
Street Side From To
Street               Side           From                  To
Alley                North          Main                  Benton
Alley                South          Main                  Benton
Alley 1              North          Clay                  Madison
Alley 1              South          Clay                  Madison
Alley 2              North          Clay                  Madison
Alley 2              South          Clay                  Madison
Alley 3              North          Clay                  Madison
Alley 3              South          Clay                  Madison
Alley 4              North          Dean                  Jefferson
Alley 4              South          Dean                  Jefferson
Austin               Both           Forest                331' north
(7:30 A.M. - 3:30 P.M. any day school is in session)
Beech                North          Madison               100' east of Madison
                                                          30' south of the
Blakely              East           Forest Avenue         south right-of-way
                                                          line of South Street
(10:00 A.M. - 2:00 P.M., Monday - Friday)                  
                                                          190' south of the
Blakely              West           Forest                south right-of-way
                                                          line of South Street
(10:00 A.M. - 2:00 P.M., Monday - Friday)
                                                          60' south of the
Blakely              West           South                 south right-of-way
                                                          line of South Street
Borden Lane          West           Kishwaukee Valley     Claussen
Borden Street        East           Claussen              100' to the south
Borden Street        East           Kishwaukee Valley     100' to the north
Calhoun              North          Illinois Route 47     Madison
Calhoun              North          Johnson               40' to the east
Calhoun              North          Throop                20' west
Calhoun              South          Calhoun               Throop
Calhoun              South          Dean                  200' to the west
Calhoun              South          Illinois Route 47     Irving
Calhoun              South          Seminary              Madison
                                    360' west of the west
Calhoun              South          right-of-way line of  Illinois Route 47
                                    Fair
Calhoun Street       South          Hayward               Tryon
Cass                 South          Johnson               Throop
Central Parkway      South          Sheila                Charles
Cherry Court         Both           Clay Street           The east
Church               North          Madison               Seminary
Church Street        Both           Benton                Main
Church Street        South          Benton                Jefferson
Claussen Drive       Both           Borden                200' to the west
Clay                 East           Greenwood             Bagley
Clay                 East           North right-of-way    South right-of-way
                                    line of alley 3       line of North Street
Clay                 East           North right-of-way    93' to the north
                                    line of Newell
Clay                 West           Greenwood             60' to the north
Clay                 West           Newell                Grove
                                                          East to the
                                                          westernmost corner of
Country Ridge Square North          Sandpiper Lane        premises commonly
                                                          referred to as 620
                                                          Country Ridge Square
                                                          South to the
                                                          westernmost corner of
Country Ridge Square West           Prairie Ridge Drive   premises commonly
                                                          referred to as 620
                                                          Country Ridge Square
Courtaulds Drive     Both           McConnell             End
Davis Road           Both           Illinois Route 47     Castle Road
                                                          1,500' west of the
Davis Road           Both           Illinois Route 47     west right-of-way
                                                          line of Route 47
Dean                 Both           Ridgeland Avenue      Highland Avenue
Dean                 East           Forest                Tryon
Dean                 East           Kimball Avenue        U.S. Route 14
                                                          A point 100'
Dean                 East           South right-of-way    southwesterly along
                                    line of South Street  said east side of
                                                          Dean
Dean                 Northwest      Forest Avenue         Ridgeland Avenue
Dean                 West           South Street          Forest
Dick Tracy Way       West           Lake                  Fremont
                                    162' west of the      186' west of the
East Jackson Street  North          centerline of         centerline of
                                    Seminary Avenue       Seminary Avenue
East Lake Street     Both           South                 300' to the south
Eastwood Drive       Both                                 
Fair Street          West           Calhoun               South
First                North          Clay                  70' west
First                North          Wheeler               60' east
First                South          Clay                  Queen Anne
Forest               South          Blakely               Gould
Fremont              North          Vine                  Madison
Fremont Street       South          Lawndale (westerly    Vine Street
                                    most)
Gerry Street         Both           South Street          Extending 100' to the
                                                          south
Greenley             Both           Lake Avenue           Vine Street
Grove                North          Clay                  210' east of Clay
(7:30 A.M. - 3:30 P.M. any day school is in session)
Grove                South          223' east of Clay     Madison
(7:30 A.M. - 3:30 P.M. any day school is in session)
Hercules Road        Both           Dean Street           East end
Hickory Road         Both           St. Johns Road        Silver Creek Road
Hill                 West           Judd                  Quinlan
Hill                 West           Quinlan               Margaret Drive
Hill Street          West           South                 Jackson
Hutchins             North          Madison               Seminary
                                                          150' north of the
Indigo Lane          East           Prairie Ridge Drive   centerline of Prairie
                                                          Ridge Drive
Irving               East           Park                  McHenry
Jackson              Both           Hill                  Pleasant
Jackson              South          Pleasant              Tryon
Jefferson            East           Fremont               South Street
Judd                 North          Hayward               300' west
                                                          80' west of the west
Judd                 South          Tryon                 right- of-way line of
                                                          Tryon
Judd Street          North          Illinois Route 47     185' west
Judd Street          South          Illinois Route 47     150' west
                                    30' south of          Point 172' south of
Julie                West           centerline of Russel  said point of
                                    Court                 beginning
Kimball Avenue       North          West right-of-way     350' to the west
                                    line of Lake Avenue
Kimball Avenue       South          West right-of-way     127' to the west
                                    line of Lake Avenue
Kishwaukee Valley    Both           Borden Lane           U.S. Route 14
Road
Lake                 Both           Madison               Fremont
Lawrence             North          Dean                  Jefferson
                                                          70' west of the west
Lincoln              North          Tryon                 right- of-way line of
                                                          Tryon
Lincoln              South          Pleasant              Tryon
Madison              East           Church                Hutchins
Madison              East           South of intersection Point 88' south of
                                    with Church           Church curb line
Madison              East           South Street          Fremont
Madison              West           Church                210' south of South
                                                          Street
Madison              West           Todd                  Greenwood
Madison Street       Both           Church                McHenry
Main                 West           60' north of Cass     50' north
                                                          Point 228' north of
                                                          the north curb line
                                                          of Cass at Main
                                    Point 99' south of    located in front of
Main                 West 31'       south curb line of    and on both sides of
                                    Washington            a private driveway
                                                          immediately adjacent
                                                          to the premises
                                                          commonly designated
                                                          as 225 Main
McHenry              Both           Seminary              Greenwood
McHenry              South          Madison               Seminary
McHenry Avenue       Both           Madison               Illinois Route 47
Melody Lane          Both           Tappan Street         150' to the east
Melody Lane          North          Illinois Route 47     A point 150' west
(6:00 A.M. - 4:00 P.M., Monday - Friday, on school days)
Melody Lane          South          Tappan Street         Illinois Route 47
Newell               North          Point 45' east of     Extending 45' west to
                                    centerline at Clay    centerline of Clay
Newell               South          South right-of-way    20' to the west
                                    line of Clay
Northwood Lane       Both           Melody Lane           School property
(6:00 A.M. - 4:00 P.M., Monday - Friday, on school days)
Oakland              West           Judd                  Jackson
Park                 South          Seminary              Irving
Park                 South          Seminary              Northhampton
Pleasant             East           W. Judd               100' to the north
                                    443.4' south of south 389.6' north of north
Putnam Street        East           right-of-way line of  right- of-way line of
                                    South Street          Forest Avenue
                                                          100' east of the east
Russel Court         North          Illinois Route 47     right- of-way line of
                                                          Illinois Route 47
                                    587' east of the east
Russel Court         North          right- of-way line of Julie Street
                                    Illinois Route 47
Russel Court         South          Illinois Route 47     Julie Street
                                                          130' north of
Sandpiper Lane       East           Prairie Ridge Drive   centerline of Prairie
                                                          Ridge Drive
                                                          To the easternmost
                                                          corner of premises
Sandpiper Lane       East           Prairie Ridge Drive   commonly designated
                                                          as 1580 Sandpiper
                                                          Lane
Seminary             Both           North                 City limits
Seminary Avenue      East           Calhoun               South
Seminary Avenue      West           Church                Hutchins
                                    135' south of south
Seminary Avenue      West           right- of-way line of South
                                    Calhoun Street
Sheila               South and east Seminary              Central Parkway
South Street         Both           Entrance to city park 300' east of Blakley
South Street         Both           Hill                  Throop
South Street         Both           Madison               Seminary
South Street         Both           Washburn              Illinois Route 47
                                    508' east of          300' west of
South Street         Both           centerline of Blakley centerline of Tara
                                                          Drive
South Street         North          Throop                Jefferson
South Street         South          Dean                  Jefferson
Southview Drive      Both           Illinois Route 47     Edgewood Drive
Southview Drive      North          Edgewood Drive        614' west of Edgewood
                                                          Drive
Southview Drive      South          Edgewood Drive        475' west of Edgewood
                                                          Drive
Tappan Street        East           Melody Lane           150' to the south
Tappan Street        West           Melody Lane           Terry Court
                                    Southeast corner of
Throop                             Throop Street Parking  
                                    Lot (2 parking
                                    spaces)
(5:00 A.M. - 10:00 A.M., Monday - Friday)
Throop               Both           Calhoun               South Street
Throop               East           Cass                  Calhoun
                                    North curb line at    South curb line at
Throop               East           the entrance to the   the exit to the
                                    Throop/Main Parking   Throop/Main Parking
                                    Lot                   Lot
                                    North curb line at
Throop               East           the exit to the       South curb line to
                                    Throop/Main Parking   the VFW Parking Lot
                                    Lot
Throop               East           North curb line of    29' north
                                    Cass
Throop               East           North curb line to    93' north
                                    the VFW Parking Lot
                                    Northern edge of
Throop               East           designated loading    Washington Street
                                    zone
                                    South curb line of
Throop               East           entrance to Throop/   106' south
                                    Main Parking Lot
                                    Southern edge of
Throop               East           designated loading    29' south
                                    zone
                                    North curb at
Throop               West           entrance to the       29' north
                                    Throop Street Metra
                                    Lot
Throop               West           North curb line of    92' north
                                    Calhoun
Throop               West           North curb line of    25' north
                                    West Judd
                                    South curb line at
Throop               West           entrance to the       56' south
                                    Throop Street Metra
                                    Lot
Throop               West           South curb line of    82' south
                                    Washington
Throop               West           South curb line of    54' south
                                    West Jackson
Throop               West           West Judd             West Jackson
Tryon                East           South Street          Dean
Tryon                East           Washington            Jackson
Tryon                West           Jackson               South Street
                                                          90' south of the
Tryon                West           Lincoln               south right-of-way
                                                          line of Lincoln
                                                          117' north of the
Tryon                West           Lincoln               north right-of-way
                                                          line of Lincoln
                                                          30' south of the
Tryon                West           Washington            south right-of-way
                                                          line of Washington
                                                          A point 51' west of
Van Buren            South          Dean                  the west right-of-way
                                                          line of Dean
Washington           Both           Throop                City limits
Washington           South          Main                  Throop
W. Judd              South          Pleasant              75' to the east
W. Judd              North          Pleasant              40' to the east
West Judd            South          105' west of Hill     20' west to a point
                                                          85' west of Hill
Wheeler              Both           Washington            First
Wicker               East           Washington            CNW Railway
Zimmerman Road       Both           McConnell Road        Country Club Road
 
(Ord. 890, 9-15-1970; amd. Ord. 944, 9-21-1971; Ord. 955, 12-7-1971; Ord. 997,
9-5-1972; Ord. 1070, 2-19-1974; Ord. 1078, 4-2-1974; Ord. 1152, 3-18-1975; Ord.
1160, 4-16-1975; Ord. 1277, 5-4-1976; Ord. 1352, 3-8-1977; Ord. 1385, 7-5-1977;
Ord. 1390, 7-19-1977; Ord. 1397, 8-16-1977; Ord. 1408, 10-18-1977; Ord. 1432,
4-4-1978; Ord. 1450, 6-20-1978; Ord. 1472, 11-21-1978; Ord. 1489, 2-20-1979;
Ord. 1530, 7-17-1979; Ord. 1534, 8-7-1979; Ord. 1545, 11-6-1979; Ord. 1554, 12-
18-1979; Ord. 1618, 10-7-1980; Ord. 1627, 11-18-1980; Ord. 1633, 1-7-1981; Ord.
1674, 7-21-1981; Ord. 1683, 8-18-1981; Ord. 1712, 1-19-1982; Ord. 1762, 10-26-
1982; Ord. 1825, 1-17-1984; Ord. 1987, 6-17-1986; Ord. 2001, 9-2-1986; Ord.
2068, 10-20-1987; Ord. 2159, 1-3-1989; Ord. 2164, 3-7-1989; Ord. 2168, 3-21-
1989; Ord. 2205, 8-15-1989; Ord. 2283, 3-19-1991; Ord. 2384, 12-1-1992; Ord.
2496, 8-16-1994; Ord. 2504, 9-30-1994; Ord. 2601, 12-5-1995; Ord. 2606, 2-6-
1996; Ord. 2641, 8-6-1996; Ord. 2647, 10-1-1996; Ord. 2649, 10-1-1996; Ord.
2681, 5-6-1997; Ord. 98-O-6, 2-17-1998, eff. 3-30-1998; Ord. 98-O-10, 3-17-
1998; Ord. 98-O-28, 5-19-1998; Ord. 98-O-42, 8-4-1998; Ord. 98-O-44, 8-18-1998;
Ord. 98-O-49, 9-15-1998; Ord. 98-O-59, 11-3-1998; Ord. 99-O-37, 6-15-1999; Ord.
00-O-35, 8-1-2000; Ord. 00-O-49, 10-17-2000; Ord. 01-O-05, 3-6-2001; Ord. 01-O-
15, 5-1-2001; Ord. 01-O-24, 6-5-2001; Ord. 01-O-25, 6-19-2001; Ord. 01-O-40,
11-6-2001; Ord. 02-O-42, 7-2-2002; Ord. 02-O-51, 8-6-2002; Ord. 02-O-60, 9-3-
2002; Ord. 02-O-89, 10-15-2002; Ord. 03-O-07, 1-7-2003; Ord. 03-O-77, 11-4-
2003; Ord. 04-O-95, 10-19-2004; Ord. 05-O-112, 11-15-2005; Ord. 07-O-43, 5-15-
2007; Ord. 07-O-61, 9-19-2007; Ord. 07-O-65, 7-17-2007; Ord. 08-O-35, 6-3-2008;
Ord. 08-O-50, 9-2-2008; Ord. 08-O-58, 10-7-2008; Ord. 10-O-14, 3-2-2010; Ord.
10-O-15, 3-2-2010; Ord. 10-O-37, 7-20-2010; Ord. 10-O-45, 11-2-2010; Ord. 12-O-
60, 12-18-2012; Ord. 13-O-35, 7-16-2013; Ord. 13-O-52, 10-1-2013; Ord. 14-O-11,
1-21-2014; Ord. 14-O-18, 2-18-2014; Ord. 14-O-64, 11-4-2014; Ord. 15-O-30, 5-5-
2015; Ord. 15-O-44, 6-16-2015; Ord. 17-O-06, 2-7-2017; Ord. 20-O-82, 11-17-
2020; Ord. 20-O-86, 12-1-2020)
   A.   Bus Stops: When signs are erected in each block at each location giving
notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle, other than a school bus,
between the hours of seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. and three thirty o'clock
(3:30) P.M. on any day when school is in session, as herein designated:
 
Street/Location Side  From                        To
Forest          Both  Dean                        Austin
Grove           South Clay                        223' to the east
Lincoln         North 30' west of the west right- 410' west of the west right-
                      of- way line of Tryon       of-way line of Tryon
Lincoln Avenue  North Tryon                       310' west of the west right-
                                                  of-way line of Tryon
                      117' north of the north     217' north of the north
Tryon           West  right- of-way line of       right- of-way line of Lincoln
                      Lincoln
 
(Ord. 2496, 8-16-1994; amd. Ord. 2504, 9-30-1994; Ord. 2641, 8-6-1996; Ord. 98-
O-6, 2-17-1998, eff. 3-30-1998; Ord. 10-O-14, 3-2-2010; Ord. 12-O-60, 12-18-
2012)
   B.   No Parking During Designated Hours: When signs are erected in each
block and at each of the following locations giving notice thereof, no person
shall park a vehicle between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and two
o'clock (2:00) P.M., Monday through Friday, on school days, upon any of the
streets or portions thereof as herein designated:
Street Side From To
Street           Side  From                        To
Austin           Both  Herrington                  290' south
Blakely          East  Forest                      Stewart
                       100' southwesterly of south 120' southwesterly of south
Dean             East  right-of-way line of South  right-of-way line of South
                       Street                      Street
Forest           Both  Blakely                     125' west of Gerry
Forest           North Putnam                      Austin
Forest           South Gould                       Austin
Gerry            West  South                       Forest
Gould            Both  Forest                      Stewart
Hayward          Both  Herrington                  South Street
Hayward          Both  South Street                Jackson
Herrington Place Both  Hayward                     End west of Austin
Jackson          North Pleasant                    Tryon
Mitchell         Both  Forest                      Stewart
Muriel           Both  Forest                      Stewart
Pleasant         Both  Jackson                     Judd
Putnam           East  South Street                443.4' south of south right-
                                                   of-way line of South Street
                       389.6' north of north
Putnam           East  right- of-way line of       Forest
                       Forest Avenue
Stewart          Both  Blakely                     Gould
West Judd        Both  Hill                        Pleasant
West Judd        South Oakland                     Hill
(Excluding designated handicapped parking spaces)
 
(Ord. 02-O-51, 8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 03-O-87, 12-16-2003; Ord. 06-O-47, 6-6-2006;
Ord. 09-O-20, 3-17-2009; Ord. 12-O-60, 12-18-2012; Ord. 14-O-18, 2-18-2014;
Ord. 14-O-64, 11-4-2014; Ord. 17-O-06, 2-7-2017; Ord. 20-O-86, 12-1-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. Information in parentheses following specific street applies only to the
  street listed immediately above.
5.3.8: SCHEDULE VIII TIME LIMIT PARKING:
   A.   Fifteen Minute Parking: When signs are erected in each block giving
notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than fifteen (15)
minutes between the hours specified of any day except Sundays and public
holidays upon any of the streets or portions thereof as herein designated:
 
Street/Location   Side  From                        To
Depot parking lot Along the entire south/west side of the depot building
                        Beginning 35' northwesterly Continuing to 85'
Depot parking lot South from the west side of the   northwesterly from the west
                        entrance from Church Street side of the entrance from
                                                    Church Street
West Judd         North Oakland                     Hill
 
(Ord. 1299, 8-3-1976; amd. Ord. 1352, 3-8-1977; Ord. 1546, 11-6-1979; Ord.
2305, 8-6-1991; Ord. 2404, 3-16-1993; Ord. 2557, 6-6-1995; Ord. 98-O-6, 2-17-
1998, eff. 3-30-1998; Ord. 98-O-8, 3-3-1998; Ord. 01-O-05, 3-6-2001; Ord. 09-O-
20, 3-17-2009; Ord. 17-O-94, 11-7-2017; Ord. 23-O-55, 11-21-2023)
   B.   Two Hour Parking: When signs are erected in each block or in each
public parking lot giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for
longer than two (2) hours between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) P.M. of any day except Sundays and public holidays, upon any streets,
public parking lots or portions thereof as herein designated:
Street Side From To
Street            Side              From                 To
Benton            Both              Van Buren            CNW Railway
Calhoun           North             Dean                 Jefferson
Calhoun           North             Johnson              Dean
Calhoun           North             Tryon                Johnson
Calhoun           South             Dean                 Jefferson
Calhoun           South             Throop               Johnson
Cass              North             Throop               Benton
Cass              South             Johnson              Benton
Church            North             Clay                 Madison
Church            South             Jefferson            Madison
                                                         8 northerly
City Hall lot                      Calhoun Street       designated parking
                                                         spaces on east side
                                                         of City Hall
Clay              East              Church               Newell
Clay              West              Church               Newell
Dean              Both              Van Buren            Calhoun
                                    Beginning with the   Continuing to the
                  Along the north   sixth designated     northwest to include
Depot parking lot side of the lot   parking space north/ a total of 5
                                    west of the depot    designated parking
                                    building             spaces
First             North             Clay                 Wheeler
Hutchins          Both              Clay                 Madison
Jackson           Both              Benton               Madison
Jackson           Both              Throop               Johnson
Jackson/Jefferson                                        90' north of the
lot (5 diagonal   10' north of the                       north right- of-way
spaces located on right-of-way line                     line of Jackson
the east side of  of Jackson Street                      Street
Jefferson Street)
                                                         33' south of the
Jefferson         East              Calhoun              south right- of-way
                                                         line of E. Jackson
                                                         Street
Jefferson         East              E. Jackson           Church
Jefferson         West              Calhoun              Church
Johnson           Both              Cass                 Van Buren
Johnson           West              Van Buren            Calhoun
Judd              Both              Benton               CNW Railway
Main              Both              Cass                 Church
                                    Entire parking lot
Main Street lot                    except designated     
                                    loading zones and no
                                    parking areas
                                    20' west of the
Newell            South             south right- of-way  270' to the west
                                    line of Clay
                                                         Continuing to the
                                    Beginning with the   south to include a
Throop            East              first designated     total of 4
                                    parking space south  designated parking
                                    of Washington        spaces ending at
                                                         Cass
                                                         Continuing to the
                                    Beginning with the   south to include a
Throop            West              first designated     total of 7
                                    parking space south  designated parking
                                    of Jackson           spaces ending at
                                                         Calhoun
                                                         Continuing to the
                                    Beginning with the   south to include a
Throop            West              first designated     total of 13
                                    parking space south  designated parking
                                    of Washington        spaces ending at
                                                         West Judd
Van Buren         Both              Johnson              Benton
W. Calhoun        Both              Hayward              Tryon
(8:00 A.M. - 2:00 P.M., Monday - Friday, on school days)
Washington        North             Main                 Throop
 
(Ord. 890, 9-15-1970; amd. Ord. 1352, 3-8-1977; Ord. 1397, 8-16-1977; Ord.
1987, 6-17-1986; 1986 Code; Ord. 2147, 12-6-1988; Ord. 2293, 5-21-1991; Ord.
2305, 8-6-1991; Ord. 2647, 10-1-1996; Ord. 2688, 5-20-1997; Ord. 98-O-6, 2-17-
1998, eff. 3-30-1998; Ord. 99-O-33, 5-18-1999; Ord. 00-O-49, 10-17-2000; Ord.
02-O-18, 4-2-2002; Ord. 07-O-61, 6-19-2007; Ord. 08-O-58, 10-7-2008; Ord. 09-O-
45, 6-16-2009; Ord. 13-O-35, 7-16-2013; Ord. 13-O-52, 10-1-2013; Ord. 17-O-94,
11-7-2017)
   C.   Four Hour Parking: When signs are erected in each block giving notice
thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than four (4) hours between
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day except Sundays
and public holidays, or between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. on Friday upon any of the streets or portions thereof as herein
designated:
 
Street    Side From                          To
Blakely   West 60' south of the south right- 190' south of the south right-of-
               of-way line of South Street   way line of South Street
Calhoun   Both Jefferson                     Madison
Dean      Both Calhoun                       South
Jackson   Both Tryon                         Throop
Jefferson Both South Street                  Calhoun
Judd      Both Tryon                         Throop
 
(Ord. 890, 9-15-1970; amd. Ord. 99-O-33, 5-18-1999; Ord. 14-O-18, 2-18-2014)
   D.   Time Limit Parking, 6:00 A.M. To 6:00 P.M.:
 
Street  Side  From      To
Beech   South Madison   Seminary
Madison Both  Greenwood Beech, except for the south 130' on east side of
                        Madison between Greenwood and Beech
 
(Ord. 1160, 4-16-1975; amd. Ord. 1259, 2-17-1976; Ord. 1277, 5-4-1976; Ord.
1281, 5-18-1976; Ord. 1300, 8-17-1976; Ord. 1339, 2-1-1977; Ord. 2647, 10-1-
1996)
   E.   Time Limit Parking, 2:00 P.M. To 4:00 P.M.:
 
Street Side From To
(No entries at this time.)
 
(Ord. 1264, 3-2-1976; amd. Ord. 2504, 9-30-1994)
   F.   Time Limit Parking, 7:30 A.M. To 4:30 P.M.:
 
Street Side From To
(No entries at this time.)
 
(Ord. 1300, 8-17-1976; amd. Ord. 2647, 10-1-1996)
   G.   Time Limit Parking, 10:00 A.M. To 3:00 P.M.:
 
Street  Side From  To
Wheeler East First Second
 
(Ord. 1494, 3-6-1979)
   H.   Time Limit Parking, 7:30 A.M. To 9:00 A.M. And 2:00 P.M. To 4:00 P.M.
Weekdays:
 
Street         Side From To
Northwood Lane Both      
 
(Ord. 1763, 10-26-1982; amd. Ord. 2601, 12-5-1995)
5.3.9: SCHEDULE IX HANDICAPPED PARKING:
   A.   Handicapped Parking Only: The following designated streets, parking
lots, and parts thereof, are hereby designated as "handicapped parking only".
Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be fined two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00).
Street Side From To
Street              Side                From                To
                                        2 spaces east of
Bates Park          South               equipment/           
                                        concession building
                                        First designated
Benton              East                parking space north  
                                        of East Jackson
                                        First designated
Benton              East                parking space south  
                                        of intersection
                                        with Cass
                                        First designated
Benton Street       East                parking space north  
                                        of Judd Street
                                        First designated
Benton Street       West                parking space south  
                                        of private alley
                                        The third parking
Calhoun Street      North               space east of the    
                                        intersection with
                                        Dean Street
                                        First designated
                                        parking space west
Cass Street         North               of the crosswalk     
                                        across Cass Street
                                        at the intersection
                                        with Johnson Street
Challenger Learning 4 designated parking spaces along the south side of the
Center Parking Lot  parking lot, immediately east of Jefferson Street
City Hall Parking   West (Throop        The 2 northerly
Lot                 Street)             most parking spaces  
                                        in this parking lot
                                        93' north of the    South right of way
Clay                East                north right of way  line of alley 3
                                        line of Newell
                                        First and second
                                        designated parallel
Clay Street         East                parking spaces       
                                        north of the
                                        intersection with
                                        Hutchins
                                        1 space located
                                        south/east of the
                                        pedestrian crossing
Clay Street Lot     South               to the depot; and 1  
                                        space located
                                        north/west of the
                                        pedestrian crossing
                                        to the depot
                                        9 spaces south side
Davis Road Park                        of lot adjacent to   
                                        the north end of
                                        field 3
                                        First designated
Dean Street         East                parking space north  
                                        of Calhoun Street
                                        The first
                                        designated parking
Dean Street         East                space north of the   
                                        alley between South
                                        Street and Calhoun
                                        Street
                                        First designated
Dean Street Lot     West                parking space of     
                                        the westernmost row
                                        of parking
                                        5 parking spaces
                                        located on the
Depot Parking Lot   North/west of depot north side of the    
                                        lot north/west of
                                        the depot building
                                        3 parking spaces
Depot Parking Lot   South/east of depot located south/east   
                                        of the depot
                                        building
                                        1 parking space in
                                        the middle of the
Emricson Park                          easterly row of      
                                        parking in the
                                        "lower" parking lot
                                        1 parking space in
Emricson Park                          the northeasterly    
                                        most corner of the
                                        "upper" parking lot
                                        1 parking space in
                                        the southwesterly
Emricson Park                          most corner of the   
                                        "middle" parking
                                        lot
                                        1 parking space
Emricson Park                          north of access     Stuessey Pavilion
                                        drive
                                        2 parking spaces
Emricson Park                          south of landscape   
                                        island east of
                                        Dream Field
                                        1 parking space
Emricson Park       Southeast           past parallel        
                                        parking in "lot A"
Jackson Street      North               At 454 West Jackson  
                                        First designated
Jackson Street      South               parking space west   
                                        of Johnson Street
                                        First designated
                                        parking space of
Jackson Street                         the northern row of  
Parking Lot                             parking of the
                                        Jackson Street
                                        entrance
                                        The third parking
Jefferson           West                space south of the   
                                        intersection with
                                        East Jackson
                                        The westerly most
Jefferson/Calhoun   North               designated parking   
Lot                                     space in the north
                                        row of parking
                                        First designated
Jefferson Street    West                parking space north  
                                        of Calhoun Street
                                        First designated
                                        parking space north
Johnson             East                of the crosswalk     
                                        across Johnson to
                                        the park in the
                                        square
                                        First designated
                                        parking space south
                                        of the crosswalk
Johnson Street      West                across Johnson       
                                        Street at the
                                        intersection with
                                        Van Buren Street
                                        First designated
                                        parking space north
Main                East                of undedicated       
                                        alley between Main
                                        and Benton
                                        First designated
Main Street         East                parking space north  
                                        of Cass Street
                                        First designated
Main Street Lot     North               parking space west   
                                        of the loading zone
Main Street Parking                     First designated
Lot                 South               parking space west   
                                        of Main Street
                                        4 spaces in the
Merryman Fields     North               middle of the lot    
Park                                    adjacent to fields
                                        1 and 2
                                        4 spaces in the
Merryman Fields     North               middle of the lot    
Park                                    adjacent to fields
                                        5 and 6
                                        2 spaces in the
Merryman Fields                        northeast corner of  
Park                                    lot adjacent to
                                        field 7
                                        A point 120' east   A point 140' east
Newell Street       North               of the centerline   of the centerline
                                        of Clay Street      of Clay Street
                                        30' east of the     A point 190' east
Park Street         North               east right of way   of the centerline
                                        of Seminary Avenue  of Seminary Avenue
Public Parking Lot                      4 parking spaces
for the Woodstock   East                along the west curb  
Police Station 656                      line
Lake Avenue
Public parking lot                      4 parking spaces
for Woodstock       North               along the North      
Recreation Center                       Side
Public Parking Lot
for Woodstock       West                5 parking spaces     
Waterworks Aquatic                      along the west side
Center
                                        First designated
                                        parking space south
Putnam              West                of southeasterly     
                                        entrance to high
                                        school
Staff Parking Lot                       First parking space
for the Woodstock   West                along the east curb  
Police Station 656                      line
Lake Avenue
Throop/Judd Parking The southernmost parking space along the Throop Street
Lot                 frontage
                                        First designated
Throop Street       West                parking space north  
                                        of Judd Street
Throop Street                           The southwesterly
Parking Lot         South               most designated      
                                        parking space
                                        First designated
                                        parking space west
Van Buren           North               of the crosswalk     
                                        across Van Buren to
                                        the Park In The
                                        Square
                                        First designated    The Park In The
Van Buren           South               parking space east  Square, at the
                                        of the crosswalk    intersection with
                                        across Van Buren    Dean
                                        First designated
                                        parking space west
                                        of the no parking
Van Buren           South               zone on Van Buren    
                                        west of the
                                        intersection with
                                        Dean
West Judd           South               Point 85' west of   Point 65' west of
                                        centerline of Hill  centerline of Hill
West Judd           South               Point 125' west of  Point 105' west of
                                        centerline of Hill  centerline of Hill
 
(Ord. 1987, 6-17-1986; amd. Ord. 2014, 10-21-1986; Ord. 2119, 8-16-1988; Ord.
2312, 10-1-1991; Ord. 2360, 9-1-1992; Ord. 2399, 2-2-1993; Ord. 2607, 2-6-1996;
Ord. 2624, 4-16-1996; Ord. 2684, 5-6-1997; Ord. 98-O-65, 12-15-1998; Ord. 99-O-
45, 8-3-1999; Ord. 00-O-33, 6-20-2000; Ord. 01-O-39, 10-16-2001; Ord. 02-O-19,
4-2-2002; Ord. 02-O-27, 5-7-2002; Ord. 02-O-31, 5-21-2002; Ord. 02-O-59, 9-3-
2002; Ord. 02-O-101, 11-19-2002; Ord. 03-O-11, 2-18-2003; Ord. 04-O-89, 10-5-
2004; Ord. 04-O-92, 10-5-2004; Ord. 05-O-64, 6-21-2005; Ord. 06-O-13, 2-21-
2006; Ord. 06-O-26, 4-4-2006; Ord. 09-O-38, 6-2-2009; Ord. 09-O-40, 6-2-2009;
Ord. 10-O-17, 4-6-2010; Ord. 11-O-33, 5-17-2011; Ord. 12-O-39, 8-7-2012; Ord.
12-O-45, 9-18-2012; Ord. 12-O-49, 10-16-2012; Ord. 13-O-35, 7-16-2013; Ord. 20-
O-40, 6-2-2020)
5.3.10: SCHEDULE X SNOW ROUTES:
   A.   Stopping, standing, or parking a motor vehicle is hereby prohibited on
the following streets after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. after a snowfall of
three inches (3") or more, as determined by the city's director of public works
or his designee, and until such time as the streets and parking lots are
adequately cleared as determined by the city's director of public works or his
designee:
Street        From             To
Benton Street Van Buren Street Church Street
Street              From             To
Benton Street       Van Buren Street Church Street
Calhoun Street      Tryon Street     Madison Street
Cass Street         Throop Street    Benton Street
Church Street       Main Street      Madison Street
Clay Street         Church Street    Newell Street
Dean Street         South Street     Van Buren Street
East Jackson Street Benton Street    Jefferson Street
East Judd Street    Benton Street    Madison Street
Jefferson Street    South Street     Church Street
Johnson Street      Calhoun Street   Cass Street
Main Street         Cass Street      Church Street
South Street        Tryon Street     Dean Street
Throop Street       South Street     Washington Street
Van Buren Street    Johnson Street   Benton Street
Washington Street   Wheeler Street   Main Street
West Jackson Street Tryon Street     Johnson Street
West Judd Street    Tryon Street     Throop Street
 
The police department is herewith authorized to cause the immediate removal of
any motor vehicle that is found to be in violation of the regulations as
presented in this subsection. When a vehicle removal is authorized by the
police department as provided herein, the owner of the vehicle will be
responsible for all towing costs.
   B.   Parking is hereby prohibited, at any time, on all other public streets
within the city after three inches (3") or more of snow has fallen, as
determined by the city's director of public works or his designee, and until
such time as the streets are adequately cleared as determined by the city's
director of public works or his designee.
   C.   The stopping, standing, or parking of any motor vehicle on any street
or within a public parking lot after a snowfall of three inches (3") or more
which causes or has the potential to cause a traffic hazard, is prohibited. The
police department is herewith authorized to cause the immediate removal of said
vehicle constituting a traffic hazard as aforesaid by a towing service. When a
vehicle removal is authorized by the police department as provided herein, the
owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
   D.   Any person found in violation of this section shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each violation. (Ord. 2597, 11-7-1995; amd. Ord. 99-O-60, 11-16-1999; Ord. 00-
O-48, 10-17-2000; Ord. 01-O-39, 10-16-2001; Ord. 04-O-89, 10-5-2004; Ord. 06-O-
87, 11-21-2006; Ord. 08-O-44, 7-15-2008)
5.3.11: SCHEDULE XI LOADING ZONES:
   A.   The following are hereby designated as loading zone areas within the
city. When signs are erected at each location giving notice thereof, no person
shall park a vehicle for longer than fifteen (15) minutes and only for the
purpose of loading or unloading.
Street Side From To
Street           Side      From                      To
Benton Street    West      230' north of the right   245' north of the right of
                           of way line of Judd       way line of Judd
                                                     91' east of east curb line
Calhoun          North 13' Point 41' west of west    of Johnson, located at
                           curb line of Dean         rear of premises commonly
                                                     designated as 190 Dean
                           Point 49' south of        Point 94' south of said
Jefferson        West      centerline of East Judd   centerline of East Judd
                           for a distance of 45'
                           121' south of the south   175' south of the south
Main             West      right of way line of the  right of way line of the
                           pedestrian walkway        pedestrian walkway
Newell           North 32' Point 202' east of        Point 170' east of said
                           centerline of Clay        centerline of Clay
Throop           East      114' south of the right   139' south of the right of
                           of way line of Washington way line of Washington
Throop           East      North right of way of     50’ to the north
                           Judd Street
                           Point 175' north of       Point 140' north of said
Tryon            West      centerline of Lincoln     centerline of Lincoln
                           extending 35' south
Van Buren Street South     West right of way of Dean 55' to the west
                           Street
 
(Ord. 1525, 6-19-1979; amd. Ord. 1594, 7-1-1980; Ord. 1634, 1-20-1981; Ord.
1712, 12-19-1982; Ord. 1987, 6-17-1986; Ord. 2641, 8-6-1996; Ord. 98-O-8, 3-3-
1998; Ord. 99-O-37, 6-15-1999; Ord. 99-O-39, 7-20-1999; Ord. 00-O-33, 6-20-
2000; Ord. 00-O-36, 8-15-2000; Ord. 05-O-96, 10-4-2005; Ord. 08-O-40, 6-17-
2008; Ord. 08-O-58, 10-7-2008; Ord. 12-O-18, 3-6-2012; Ord. 10-O-14, 3-2-2010;
Ord. 14-O-50, 8-19-2014)
   B.   The following are hereby designated as passenger loading and unloading
zone areas within the city. When signs are erected at each location giving
notice thereof, the designated area shall be used only for passenger loading
and unloading, access shall be limited to no more than fifteen (15) minutes,
and no driver shall leave the vehicle unattended at any time.
 
Street      Side From To
Hill Street West Judd Quinlan
 
(Ord. 02-O-14, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 03-O-07, 1-7-2003; Ord. 03-O-65, 9-2-2003;
Ord. 08-O-50, 9-2-2008)
5.3.12: SCHEDULE XII BICYCLE LANES:
The following are hereby designated as bicycle lanes, and it shall hereafter be
unlawful to operate any vehicle other than nonmotorized bicycles in these
lanes:
 
Street Side                  From                       To
                             Point 508' east of center- Point 300' west of
South  North 5' and south 5' line of Blakley            extending centerline of
                             southwesterly              Tara Drive
 
(Ord. 1627, 11-18-1980)
5.3.13: ADDITIONAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Street Cleaning: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public
street or portion thereof in the city at any time when such street is being
cleaned or snow removed. Signs indicating such cleaning or snow removal shall
be posted before such work is done. See section
 5.3.10 of this chapter.
   B.   Time Limit Parking: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any
city street or city parking lot for a period of time in excess of the amount of
time designated by ordinance and so posted. (Ord. 890, 9-15-1970)
Any person needing to park in a legal parking space for longer than the times
established may apply for a daily parking permit from the office of the city
manager. The permit, which may be issued only for unusual parking requirements,
shall relieve the individual from the time restriction for that day when
prominently displayed on the inside of the vehicle windshield. There shall be
no charge for such a permit. (Ord. 1743, 8-17-1982)
   C.   Vehicles For Sale: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any
street for the purpose of displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon
any street from which vehicle merchandise is peddled or sold. (Ord. 890, 9-15-
1970)
   D.   Parking At Curb:
      1.   Parallel Parking: Unless otherwise designated by signage, pavement
markings, or other means it shall be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a
street or municipal parking lot other than parallel with the curb, or edge of
roadway. Vehicles parallel parked must be parked in the same direction as the
direction of traffic movement for that side of the street. Where parallel
parking spaces are designated by pavement markings, a vehicle shall be parked
within the designated space as nearly to the center as possible. No vehicle
shall be parked so that it occupies more than one designated stall except that
a vehicle in excess of twenty feet (20') may occupy more than one designated
parallel parking stall so long as it does not interfere with pedestrian or
traffic movement and safety. Where parallel parking is permitted but not
designated by pavement markings, a vehicle shall be parked no further than
twelve inches (12") from the curb or edge of the roadway.
      2.   Diagonal Parking: In areas designated by signage, pavement markings,
or other means for diagonal parking or perpendicular parking, vehicles shall be
parked as nearly in the center of the designated stall as possible at the angle
indicated by the pavement markings. No vehicle shall be parked so that it
occupies more than one designated stall and no vehicle with an overall length
of more than twenty feet (20') shall be parked in any diagonal or perpendicular
stall. (Ord. 2068, 10-20-1987)
   E.   Public Rights Of Way:
      1.   Definitions:
   PARKWAY: That area, landscaped or not, of the public right of way extending
from the edge of the roadway to the property line.
   ROADWAY: Any gravel, seal coated or paved area used for the public passage
of vehicles.
      2.   Parking Restriction: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any
sidewalk or in any parkway, except in a parkway area designated by the city
council for "on street parking" and improved in accordance with the
requirements established by the city council. (Ord. 1928, 8-20-1985)
      3.   Parking On Sidewalks Or Parkways: No vehicle shall park on any
sidewalk or in any parkway, except in a parkway area designated by the city
council for "on street parking" and improved in accordance with the
requirements established by the city council.
         a.   Except at the following locations and upon the following
conditions:
            (1)   The west side of Northhampton Street in front of 815
Northhampton Street, Woodstock, Illinois, upon the following conditions:
               (A)   The exception herein created is a pure license, revocable
at will and without notice by the city council;
               (B)   Such parking area is expressly subject to the right of the
city to pave, improve, or repair Northhampton Street;
               (C)   In the event the widening and/or the construction of curb,
gutter or other road improvements on the west side of Northhampton Street, then
the exception herein created may be terminated. (Ord. 2338, 5-5-1992)
            (2)   The east side of Blakely Street from the north side of Forest
Avenue to thirty six feet (36')   north of the north right of way line of
Blakely Street. (Ord. 98-0-6, 2-17-1998, eff. 3-30-1998)
            (3)   The west side of the courtyard along the west side of North
Eastwood Drive, near the intersection of Center Street.
               (A)   Such parking area is not limited to a maximum of thirty
(30) minute time limit between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M.;
               (B)   The exception herein created is a pure license, revocable
at will and without notice by the city council;
               (C)   Such parking area is expressly subject to the right of the
city to pave, improve, or repair North Eastwood Drive;
               (D)   In the event the widening and/or the construction of curb,
gutter or other road improvements on the west side of North Eastwood Drive,
then the exception herein created may be terminated. (Ord. 99-O-47, 8-17-1999)
            (4)   The north side of Christian Way from Illinois Route 47 to
Northhampton Street.
               (A)   Such parking area shall be limited to a maximum of thirty
(30) minute time limit between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M.; and
               (B)   Such parking area shall be subject to the same
restrictions and parking prohibition established by the city for all streets
following a snow event; and
               (C)   The exception herein created is a pure license, revocable
at will and without notice by the city council; and
               (D)   Such parking area is expressly subject to the right of the
city to pave, improve, or repair Christian Way. In the event the widening and/
or the construction of curb, gutter or other road improvements, then the
exception herein created may be terminated; and
               (E)   Such parking area shall be paved by the adjoining property
owner and the property owner shall be responsible for all maintenance and
repair of the parking area; and
               (F)   The area to be improved and used for parking shall not
exceed more than two hundred forty feet (240') in length and the location shall
be subject to approval by the city of Woodstock. (Ord. 05-O-53, 6-7-2005)
            (5)   (Rep. by Ord. 11-O-49, 8-16-2011)
            (6)   The east side of Tappan Street in front of 1338 Tappan
Street.
               (A)   Such parking area shall be limited to a maximum of thirty
(30) minute time limit between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M.; and
               (B)   Such parking area shall be subject to the same
restrictions and parking prohibition established by the city for all streets
following a snow event; and
               (C)   The exception herein created is a pure license, revocable
at will and without notice by the city council; and
               (D)   Such parking area is expressly subject to the right of the
city to pave, improve, or repair Tappan Street. In the event the widening and/
or the construction of curb, gutter or other road improvements, then the
exception herein created may be terminated; and
               (E)   Such parking area shall be paved by the owner of the
property at 1338 Tappan Street and the property owner shall be responsible for
all maintenance and repair of the parking area; and
               (F)   The area to be improved and used for parking shall be
adjoining the pavement between the driveway at 1338 Tappan Street and the north
property line but at no time shall the parking area extend past the north or
south property line, the final location shall be subject to approval by the
city of Woodstock; and
               (G)   Parking shall be limited to licensed cars and/or light
duty vehicles only; no trailers, recreational vehicles, large trucks, or
storage containers of any type are permissible. (Ord. 08-0-28, 5-6-2008)
   F.   Second Division Vehicles: Except as provided in subsection
5.3.7A of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to stand or park any truck,
tractor, semitrailer, trailer or bus classified as a second division F or
above, as provided in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-815(a) of the Illinois
vehicle code, on any street in a residence district, as defined in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-172 of the Illinois vehicle code, for a longer period
than is reasonably necessary for the loading or unloading of such vehicle.
(Ord. 05-0-118, 12-6-2005)
5.3.14: OFF STREET PARKING FACILITIES ESTABLISHED:
It is hereby determined and declared for the public benefit and welfare of the
city for the purpose of relieving traffic and parking congestion on its public
streets and effectuating traffic control and public safety, to acquire,
construct, operate and maintain off street parking facilities, which are
sometimes hereinafter also referred to as parking lots. (Ord. 890, 9-15-1970)
5.3.15: PARKING LOT REGULATIONS:
There are hereby established the following rules and regulations governing the
use of the off street parking facilities owned, leased or other established by
the city of Woodstock for public use: (Ord. 01-0-39, 10-16-2001)
   A.   Width Limitation: No vehicle which has overall length of more than
twenty feet (20') or an overall width of more than eight feet (8') shall be
parked in any parking lot. (Ord. 890, 9-15-1970)
   B.   Designated Parking Stall: A vehicle shall be parked in a parking lot
only within a parking stall designated by pavement markings or other means as
nearly in the center of a designated stall as possible. No vehicle shall be
parked so that it occupies more than one designated stall. (Ord. 2068, 10-20-
1987)
   C.   Designated Roadways: No person shall drive into a parking lot on any
other than the designated roadways, and only in the direction indicated by
signs and markings.
   D.   Speed Limit: No person shall drive on the roadway in any parking lot at
a speed greater than five (5) miles per hour. (Ord. 890, 9-15-1970)
   E.   Parking: No vehicle shall be parked in any parking lot for a longer
period than twenty four (24) hours. (Ord. 1802, 6-21-1983)
   F.   Unattended Vehicle: No vehicle shall be parked and left unattended on
any roadway in any parking lot.
   G.   Entrances And Exits: No vehicle shall enter or leave a parking lot
other than by the designated entrances and exits.
   H.   Endangerment Prohibited: No person shall use any portion of a parking
lot in a manner as to endanger the person or property of another. (Ord. 1882,
12-4-1984)
   I.   Woodstock Public Library Lot: No person shall park, cause to be parked,
or allow to be parked any motor vehicle in the parking lot adjacent to the
Woodstock public library either:
      1.   During hours that the library is not open to the public; or
      2.   When said person is not patronizing the library and on the library
premises. (Ord. 1735, 6-15-1982; amd. Ord. 01-0-07, 4-3-2001)
   J.   Jefferson/Jackson Lot: Two (2) hour parking is hereby established in
the following spaces in the Jefferson/Jackson Streets parking lot: Five (5)
diagonal parking spaces on the east side of Jefferson, beginning approximately
ten feet (10') north of north right of way line of Jackson and extending eighty
feet (80') north. (Ord. 1885, 12-18-1985; amd. Ord. 01-0-07, 4-3-2001)
   K.   Wheeler Street Parking Lot: No person shall ride, operate, or use a
skateboard, in-line roller skates, or other similar activities within any
portion of the public parking lot located on the south side of the Chicago and
Northwestern Railroad property and the west side of Wheeler Street, at any
time. (Ord. 02-0-52, 8-20-2002)
   L.   Depot Parking Lot: Parking in two (2) designated spaces along the
southwesterly side of the lot, as designated by proper signage, shall be
limited to parking by taxi vehicles only. For purposes of this restriction,
that shall include only such taxi vehicles as are in full compliance with all
state permitting, registration, insurance, and licensing requirements. (Ord.
09-0-56, 8-18-2009)
5.3.16: ALL NIGHT PARKING:
No person shall park a vehicle on any street for a period of time longer than
thirty (30) minutes between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M., except physicians on emergency calls. (Ord. 890, 9-5-1970)
   A.   Exception: An exception to this section is hereby granted to the west
side of the courtyard along the west side of North Eastwood Drive, near the
intersection of Center Street, subject to the following:
      1.   This exception is a license, revocable at will and without notice by
the city council.
      2.   Such parking area is expressly subject to the right of the city to
pave, improve or repair North Eastwood Drive.
      3.   In the event the widening and/or the construction of curb, gutter or
other road improvements on the west side of North Eastwood Drive, the exception
granted herein shall be terminated. (Ord. 99-O-47, 8-17-1999)
5.3.17: TEMPORARY NO PARKING ZONES AND TEMPORARY ROAD AND SIDEWALK CLOSURES AND
USES:
The City Manager shall have authority to determine when temporary parking,
standing, en-try or driving restrictions are appropriate on any public right of
way, parking area, road or sidewalk, such as in the event of construction work,
maintenance or authorized special events, all of which the City Manager is
hereby permitted to authorize with such conditions as the City Manager deems
appropriate and with routine reporting to the City Council. In those events, no
person shall park any vehicle upon any street or in any public parking lot nor
shall any person enter or use any street, alleyway or sidewalk, or use such
street, alley or sidewalk in a manner inconsistent with an authorized use,
whenever the City Manager has authorized the posting of signage indicating any
such restriction or special event use is in place. (Ord. 18-O-32, 5-1-2018;
amd. Ord. 20-O-35, 5-20-2020)
5.3.18: SIGNS POSTED:
Appropriate signs shall be posted in all areas where parking is limited or
prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (Ord. 890, 9-15-1970)
5.3.19: OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   Definition:
   ENGINE BRAKE: Any mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking
or deceleration of any vehicles which results in the excessive, loud, unusual
or explosive noise from such vehicle. (Ord. 02-O-100, 11-19-2002)
   B.   Engine Brakes: No vehicle shall be operated utilizing engine brakes at
any time on McConnell Road from Illinois Route 47 to the east City limits.
(Ord. 98-O-53, 10-20-1998)
Except under emergency conditions, no vehicle shall be operated utilizing
engine brakes at any time on Illinois Route 47 from the north City limits to
the south City limits, on U.S. Route 14 from the east City limits to the west
City limits, and on Illinois Route 120 from Illinois Route 47 to the east City
limits. (Ord. 07-O-18, 1-16-2007)
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished for a first conviction thereof by a fine of not more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding ten (10) days,
or by both such fine and imprisonment; for a second such conviction within one
year thereafter, such person shall be punished by a fine of not more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) or by imprisonment for not more than twenty (20) days
or by both such fine and imprisonment, upon the third and subsequent conviction
within one year after the first conviction, such person shall be punished by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not
more than six (6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 98-O-53,
10-20-1998)
5.3.20: PENALTIES:
   A.   General: Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
chapter with the exception of regulations pertaining to parking shall be fined
not less than thirty five dollars ($35.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense and be responsible for the City's cost of
prosecution, including reasonable attorney fees.
   B.   Parking: Except as provided in this section, any person convicted of
violating any provision of this chapter pertaining to parking regulations shall
be fined as follows: (Ord. 99-O-42, 7-20-1999, eff. 10-1-1999)
      1.   If paid within thirty (30) days of the violation, the fine shall be
not less than twenty dollars ($20.00).
      2.   If paid after thirty (30) days, the fine shall not be less than
fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 11-O-56, 10-18-2011)
      3.   The fines provided in subsections B1 and B2 of this section shall be
paid to the Police Department or the City's parking violation collection
service between the day of the offense and up to thirty (30) days following the
offense. After thirty (30) days following the offense, the City or the City's
parking collection service may begin an administrative debt collection process
as approved by the City. Any person violating any parking provision in excess
of three (3) times within a thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the
most recent violation may be referred to the Circuit Court for adjudication.
(Ord. 07-O-17, 1-16-2007)
      4.   After thirty (30) days following the offense, any person convicted
in open court of violating any provision of this chapter pertaining to parking
shall be fined not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense and may be responsible for the City's cost
of prosecution, including reasonable attorney fees. The City reserves the right
to turn unpaid parking violations of more than thirty (30) days over to the
City's collection agency in lieu of adjudicating the violations in Circuit
Court. (Ord. 11-O-56, 10-18-2011)
   C.   Unattended Vehicles: It shall be conclusively presumed that any
unattended vehicle found parked in violation of this chapter shall have been so
parked either by the registered owner or at the authorization, direction and
control of the registered owner. (Ord. 99-O-42, 7-20-1999, eff. 10-1-1999)
   D.   Towing Vehicles Away: The Police Department and all members thereof are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away or have removed and towed away by a
commercial towing service, any vehicle illegally parked in any place where such
parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks the use of a
fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the movements of any emergency
vehicle, or any vehicle which has been parked in any public street or other
public place for a period of twenty four (24) consecutive hours. Any vehicle
parked in violation of subsection
5.3.13F of this chapter shall be removed and towed away irrespective of how
long it has been left parked or left standing. (Ord. 05-O-118, 12-6-2005)
Vehicles so towed away shall be stored on any City property or in a public
garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator thereof
after payment of the expense incurred by the City in removing and storing such
vehicles, and any fines incurred. (Ord. 99-O-42, 7-20-1999, eff. 10-1-1999)
   E.   Parking, Two Hour Zones, Graduated Fines: Any person convicted of
violating any provision of this chapter pertaining to parking regulations in an
area where parking is restricted to two (2) hours shall be fined as follows:
      1.   First Violation: There shall be no penalty.
      2.   Second Violation: If paid within thirty (30) days of the violation,
the fine shall be ten dollars ($10.00); if paid after thirty (30) days, the
fine shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
      3.   Third Violation: If paid within thirty (30) days of the violation,
the fine shall be twenty dollars ($20.00); if paid after thirty (30) days, the
fine shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
      4.   Fourth And Subsequent Violations: If paid within thirty (30) days of
the violation, the fine shall be thirty dollars ($30.00); if paid after thirty
(30) days, the fine shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 07-O-17, 1-16-2007)
      5.   Exempt: The following streets shall be exempted from the graduated
fine structure, but shall remain designated as two (2) hour parking zones:
 
Street   Side  From     To
First    North Clay     Queen Anne
Hutchins Both  Clay     Madison
Judd     Both  Nebraska Irving
Putnam   East  South    Herrington Place
 
(Ord. 99-O-42, 7-20-1999, eff. 10-1-1999)
CHAPTER 4
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
5.4.1: Snowmobile Routes Designated
5.4.2: Insurance Required
5.4.3: Operation Of Snowmobiles
5.4.4: Snowmobile Requirements
5.4.1: SNOWMOBILE ROUTES DESIGNATED:
The following roadways within the city are hereby declared to be designated
snowmobile routes:
   CASTLE ROAD (east right of way) from the southernmost city limits
(Kishwaukee Creek) north to Cobblestone Way.
   COBBLESTONE WAY beginning at the west right of way line of Castle Road at
its intersection with Cobblestone Way and extending westerly to the centerline
of Illinois Route 47.
   DAVIS ROAD beginning at the west right of way line of Dean Street at its
intersection with Davis Road and extending southeasterly to the westerly edge
of Kishwaukee park.
   DIECKMAN STREET from the centerline of Illinois Route 47 at its intersection
with Dieckman Street to its westerly terminus.
   GREENWOOD AVENUE dedicated right of way from its easterly terminus at the
centerline of Illinois Route 120 to the east right of way line of Illinois
Route 47 at its intersection with Greenwood Avenue.
   RAFFEL ROAD from the north right of way line of Banford Road at its
intersection with Raffel Road, extending southward approximately six hundred
sixty feet (660') to the city limits.
   ROSE FARM ROAD (west right of way) from the northernmost city limits
(railroad tracks) south to U.S. Route 14.
   WARE ROAD from the west right of way line of Illinois Route 47 at its
intersection with Ware Road to the east right of way line of Raffel Road at its
intersection with Ware Road. (Ord. 2017, 11-4-1986; amd. Ord. 2228, 12-5-1989)
5.4.2: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile upon a designated snowmobile route
within the city unless the operator and the snowmobile are covered by a policy
of insurance containing liability coverage in the extent of fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) per person and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
per occurrence, and property damage coverage in the amount of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) per occurrence, naming the city as an additional coinsured
under the policy. (Ord. 2017, 11-4-1986)
5.4.3: OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES:
   A.   Operation Only On Snowmobile Routes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a snowmobile on any public roadway within the city except
those designated in section
5.4.1 of this chapter as snowmobile routes. It shall be unlawful for any person
to operate a snowmobile within any municipally owned park within the city.
(Ord. 99-0-48, 8-17-1999)
   B.   Operation On Private Property: It shall be unlawful to operate any
snowmobile upon private property within the city without the prior consent of
the owner thereof.
   C.   Stopping On Snowmobile Routes: It shall be unlawful to stop a
snowmobile upon a designated snowmobile route within the city, except to obey
traffic laws and regulations or as required by traffic conditions or emergency.
   D.   Driver's License Required: It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile
on a designated snowmobile route within the city unless the operator of that
snowmobile possesses a valid motor vehicle driver's license.
   E.   Speed Restriction: It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile on a
designated snowmobile route within the city at a speed greater than fifteen
(15) miles per hour.
   F.   Obedience To Traffic Laws: Every operator of a snowmobile on a
designated snowmobile route within the city shall obey all traffic signs and
signals and all other traffic laws, regulations and ordinances of the state and
the city.
   G.   Yield Right Of Way: Every operator of a snowmobile on a designated
snowmobile route within the city shall yield the right of way to the operators
of all other motor vehicles.
   H.   Operation In Single File: Whenever two (2) or more snowmobiles are
being operated along the same part of a designated snowmobile route within the
city at the same time and in the same direction, the operators of the
snowmobiles shall keep them in single file.
   I.   Driving Near Curb: Every operator of a snowmobile on a designated
snowmobile route within the city, which has no curb, shall operate the
snowmobile on the shoulder of the roadway and, on one which has curb and
gutter, shall operate the snowmobile on the roadway as near to the curb as is
safe to do so. (Ord. 2017, 11-4-1986)
5.4.4: SNOWMOBILE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Registration And Condition Of Snowmobiles: It shall be unlawful to
operate a snowmobile on a designated snowmobile route within the city unless
the snowmobile is properly registered and numbered in accordance with the laws
of the state and unless the snowmobile meets the equipment and safety
requirements of the laws of the state.
   B.   Excessive Noise Prohibited: No person shall operate a snowmobile on a
designated snowmobile route within the city which is not equipped with an
adequate and functioning muffler, or which in any manner causes excessive noise
or air pollution.
   C.   Lights Required: Any snowmobile operated at night on a designated
snowmobile route within the city shall display a lighted headlight and a red
taillight. (Ord. 2017, 11-4-1986)
CHAPTER 5
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5.5.1: Adoption Of State Statutes
5.5.2: Definitions
5.5.3: Systems Established
5.5.4: Office Of Traffic Compliance Administrator
5.5.5: Notice Requirements
5.5.6: Issuance Of Citation
5.5.7: Service
5.5.8: Hearing And Evidence Rules
5.5.9: Defenses
5.5.10: Final Determination Of Violation Liability
5.5.11: Appeals
5.5.12: Procedures For Nonresidents
5.5.13: Judgment Of Findings, Decision And Order
5.5.14: Penalty
5.5.1: ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES:
That 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3, administrative adjudication of
violations of traffic regulations concerning the standing, parking or
conditions of vehicles and automated traffic law violations, and 5/11-208.6,
automated traffic law enforcement system, as from time to time amended, are
hereby adopted in their entirety. Any person charged with the violation of a
municipal ordinance regulating the standing, parking and condition of vehicles
and automated traffic law violations may be prosecuted under and in accordance
with the provisions herein. (Ord. 09-0-17, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
5.5.2: DEFINITIONS:
The terms used herein shall have the following meanings:
   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER: An individual who is appointed to serve as
the hearing officer for matters set forth under this chapter. The
administrative hearing officer shall be responsible for the operation of an
administrative adjudication system for automated traffic law violations and
shall be referred to herein as the "hearing officer" or the "administrative law
judge". The adjudication of all notices of parking, standing, compliance and
automated traffic violations shall be conducted by the hearing officer in
accordance with all the provisions of title 1, chapter 7, article L of this
code.
   AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: A device with one or more motor
vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a red light signal to produce
recorded images of motor vehicles entering an intersection against a red light
signal in violation of section 5/11-306 of the vehicle code or similar
provision of a city ordinance.
   AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW VIOLATION: A violation described in section 5/11-208.6
of the vehicle code.
   CERTIFIED REPORT: A report concerning five (5) or more unpaid fines or
penalties for automated traffic law violations made by the city to the
secretary of state in accordance with section 5/6-306.5 of the vehicle code.
   DETERMINATION NOTICE: A notice of final determination of automated traffic
law enforcement violation liability issued pursuant to section 5/11-208.3 of
the vehicle code and pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   RECORDED IMAGES: Images showing the time, date, and location of an automated
traffic law violation recorded by an automated traffic law enforcement system
on: a) two (2) or more photographs; b) two (2) or more microphotographs; c) two
(2) or more electronic images; or d) a video recording showing the motor
vehicle and, on at least one image or portion of the recording, clearly
identifying the registration plate number of the motor vehicle.
   SUSPENSION NOTICE: A notice of impending driver's license suspension issued
pursuant to section 5/11-208.3 of the vehicle code.
   SYSTEM: Individually, an automated traffic law enforcement system or,
collectively, automated traffic law enforcement systems established in the city
pursuant to this chapter.
   TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR: The city's police chief or designee.
   VEHICLE CODE: The Illinois vehicle code 1 .
   VIOLATION NOTICE: An automated traffic law violation notice issued pursuant
to sections 5/11-208.3 and 5/11-208.6 of the vehicle code and pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 09-0-17, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq., as amended.
5.5.3: SYSTEMS ESTABLISHED:
The city hereby determines to establish systems at the following intersections
located within the corporate limits of the city:
   A.   Illinois Route 47 and Illinois Route 120;
   B.   Illinois Route 47 and Country Club Road;
   C.   Illinois Route 47 and McConnell Road;
   D.   Illinois Route 47 and Lake Avenue;
   E.   Lake Avenue and Kilkenny Court;
   F.   Illinois Route 47 and U.S. Route 14;
   G.   U.S. Route 14 and Dean Street;
   H.   U.S. Route 14 and Lake Avenue;
   I.   U.S. Route 14 and Doty Road;
   J.   U.S. Route 14 and Lake Shore Drive; and
   K.   U.S. Route 14 and West Lake Shore Drive. (Ord. 09-0-17, 3-3-2009, eff.
5-1-2009)
5.5.4: OFFICE OF TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR:
There is hereby created the position of traffic compliance administrator which
position shall be filled by the police chief appointed by the city manager. The
traffic compliance administrator shall be authorized to adopt, distribute and
process violation notices and other notices required by section 5/11-208.3 of
the vehicle code, collect money paid as fines and penalties for automated
traffic law violations. The traffic compliance administrator is also authorized
to make a certified report to the secretary of state pursuant to section 5/6-
306.5 of the vehicle code. Any such certified report shall contain the
information required under section 5/6-306.5(c) of the vehicle code. (Ord. 09-
0-17, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
5.5.5: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A violation notice shall include:
      1.   The date, time and place of the violation.
      2.   The particular regulation violated.
      3.   The fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment.
      4.   The vehicle make and state registration number.
      5.   The identification number of the person issuing the notice.
      6.   That the payment of the indicated fine, and any applicable penalty
for late payment, shall operate as a final disposition of the violation.
      7.   Information on the availability of a hearing in which the violation
may be contested on its merits.
      8.   The time and manner in which a hearing will be held.
   B.   With regard to automated traffic law violations, a violation notice
shall also include:
      1.   The name and address of the vehicle's registered owner.
      2.   A copy of the recorded images.
      3.   A statement that the recorded images are evidence of a red light
signal violation.
      4.   A warning that failure to pay the penalty or contest liability in a
timely manner is an admission of liability and may result in a suspension of
the driving privileges of the vehicle's registered owner.
      5.   A statement that the person may elect to proceed by: a) paying the
fine; or b) challenging the charge in court, by mail or by administrative
hearing.
      6.   The requirement for the vehicle's make is not required if it is not
available and readily discernible. (Ord. 09-0-17, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
5.5.6: ISSUANCE OF CITATION:
Before a citation is issued for any automated traffic law violation, a
determination shall be made by a technician employed or contracted by the city,
based on inspection of recorded images generated by the system, that the
vehicle was being operated in violation of section 5/11-208.6 of the vehicle
code or a city ordinance. If the technician determines that the vehicle entered
the intersection as part of a funeral procession or in order to yield the right
of way to an emergency vehicle, a citation shall not be issued. If it is
determined that a uniform traffic citation was issued by a police officer for
the same violation of the law occurring at the same time and location, an
automated traffic law violation citation shall not be issued. (Ord. 09-0-17, 3-
3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
5.5.7: SERVICE:
   A.   Service Of Violation Notice: The original or a facsimile of the notice
shall be affixed to the vehicle or by handing the notice to the operator of a
vehicle if present. Service of automated traffic law violations shall be made
by mail to the address of the registered owner of the cited vehicle within
thirty (30) days after the secretary of state notifies the city of the identity
of the vehicle's owner, but in no event later than ninety (90) days after the
violation.
   B.   Traffic Compliance Administrator Certification: When traffic compliance
administrators issue violation notices they shall certify to the correctness of
the facts on the violation notice by signing their name to the notice at the
time of service or, in the case of a notice produced by a computerized device,
by signing a single certificate to be kept by the traffic compliance
administrator attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the
device while it was under his/her control. The original or a facsimile of the
violation notice shall be retained by the traffic compliance administrator. A
record of the proceeding shall be kept in the ordinary course of business.
   C.   Prima Facie Evidence: A violation notice issued, signed and served in
accordance with this section, or a copy of the notice, shall be prima facie
correct and shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts shown
on the notice. The notice, copy or computer generated record shall be
admissible in any subsequent administrative or legal proceedings.
   D.   Service Of Additional Notices: Service of additional notices may be
sent by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the address of the
registered owner of the cited vehicle as recorded with the secretary of state,
or, under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1306, to the lessee of the cited
vehicle at the last address known to the lessor of the cited vehicle at the
time of lease. If notice to that address is returned as undeliverable, service
shall be to the last known address recorded in a United States postal service
database. The service shall be deemed complete as of the date of deposit with
the United States postal service.
   E.   Second Violation Notice: A second notice of violation shall include:
      1.   The date and location of the violation cited in the violation
notice.
      2.   The particular regulation violated.
      3.   The vehicle make and state registration number.
      4.   The fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment.
      5.   The method in which a hearing to contest the violation on its merits
may be obtained by the respondent, and the time and manner in which the hearing
may be requested.
      6.   A statement that failure either to pay the fine and any applicable
penalty or to appear at the scheduled hearing will result in a final
determination of violation liability for the cited violation in the amount of
the fine and penalty indicated.
      7.   A statement that, upon the occurrence of a final determination of
violation liability for the failure, and the exhaustion of, or failure to
exhaust, available administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid
fine or penalty will constitute a debt due and owing the city.
   F.   Final Notice Of Determination: A notice of final determination of
parking, standing, compliance or automated traffic law violation liability and
the conclusion of the judicial review procedures taken pursuant to this section
shall be issued. The notice shall:
      1.   State the unpaid fine or penalty is a debt due and owing the city;
      2.   Contain warnings that failure to pay any fine or penalty due and
owing the city within the time specified may result in the city filing a
petition in the 22nd circuit court to have the unpaid fine or penalty rendered
a judgment as provided by this section, or may result in suspension of the
person's driver's license for failure to pay fines or penalties for ten (10) or
more parking violations under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5 or five
(5) or more automated traffic law violations under 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-208.6.
   G.   Driver's License Suspension: A notice of impending driver's license
suspension shall:
      1.   Be sent to the person liable for any fine or penalty that remains
due and owing on ten (10) or more parking violations or five (5) or more unpaid
automated traffic law violations;
      2.   State that failure to pay the fine or penalty owing within forty
five (45) days of the notice's date will result in the city notifying the
secretary of state that the person is eligible for initiation of suspension
proceedings under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5;
      3.   State that the person may obtain a photostatic copy of an original
ticket imposing a fine or penalty by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope
to the city with a request for a copy; and
      4.   Be sent by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the
address recorded with the secretary of state or, if any notice to that address
is returned as undeliverable, to the last known address recorded in a United
States postal service approved database. (Ord. 09-0-17, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-
2009)
5.5.8: HEARING AND EVIDENCE RULES:
A registered owner of the vehicle cited in a violation notice shall have an
opportunity for a hearing in which the owner may contest the merits of the
alleged violation, and during which formal or technical rules of evidence shall
not apply; provided, however, that under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
1306, the lessee of a vehicle cited in the violation notice shall be provided
an opportunity for a hearing as afforded the registered owner. Likewise, the
lessee of a vehicle cited in a violation notice shall be afforded the
opportunity for a hearing of the same kind afforded the registered owner. (Ord.
09-0-17, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
5.5.9: DEFENSES:
For matters relating to parking, standing or condition of vehicles and
automated traffic law violations, the administrative law judge may consider in
defense of a violation:
   A.   The motor vehicle, or registration plates, of the motor vehicle were
stolen before the violation occurred and not under the control of or in the
possession of the owner at the time of the violation.
   B.   For an automated traffic enforcement violation, in addition to the
defense in subsection A of this section, that the driver of the vehicle passed
through the intersection when the light was red either: 1) in order to yield
the right of way to an emergency vehicle or 2) as part of a funeral procession.
   C.   The relevant required signs prohibiting or restricting parking were
missing or obscured.
   D.   The facts alleged in the parking, standing or compliance violation
notice are not correct, are materially inconsistent or do not support a finding
that the specified regulation was violated.
   E.   Any other evidence or issues provided by city ordinance.
To demonstrate that the motor vehicle, or the registration plates, were stolen
before the violation occurred and were not under the control or possession of
the owner at the time of the violation, the owner must submit proof that a
report concerning the stolen motor vehicle or registration plates was filed
with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner. (Ord. 09-0-17, 3-3-2009, eff.
5-1-2009)
5.5.10: FINAL DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION LIABILITY:
A final determination of violation liability shall occur following failure to
pay the fine and any applicable penalty, or to appear at a hearing on the
merits, and upon the exhaustion of the administrative review procedures. When a
person fails to appear at his/her scheduled hearing to contest an alleged
violation, the administrative law judge's determination of violation liability
shall become final: a) upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that
determination; or b) upon expiration of the period for filing the petition
without a filing having been made. (Ord. 09-0-17, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
5.5.11: APPEALS:
A petition to void a determination may be filed by a person owing an unpaid
fine or penalty and shall be filed within thirty (30) days of the finding of
liability and shall be ruled upon by the administrative law judge. The grounds
for such a petition are limited to:
   A.   The person was not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the date
the violation notice was issued; or
   B.   The person had paid the fine or penalty for the violation in question;
or
   C.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a date for a hearing.
When it has been determined there is just cause, the registered owner shall be
provided with a hearing on the merits for the violation. (Ord. 09-0-17, 3-3-
2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
5.5.12: PROCEDURES FOR NONRESIDENTS:
If an alleged violator does not reside within the city, the violation may be
contested in writing pursuant to the notice of violation. In such
circumstances, the nonresident may submit his or her position, in writing,
signed and under oath, to the administrative law judge, setting forth the
reasons why a finding of liability should not be entered and why the issuance
of the violation was improper. Said written challenge must be submitted not
less than fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing as noted on the notice of
violation. (Ord. 09-0-17, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
5.5.13: JUDGMENT OF FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER:
   A.   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the administrative review
law shall be a debt due and owing the city and, as such, may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under the
administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of parking,
standing, compliance or automated traffic law violation, the city may commence
a proceeding in the 22nd judicial circuit court for the purpose of obtaining a
judgment on the final determination of violation. Nothing in this section shall
prevent the city from consolidating multiple final determinations of parking,
standing, compliance or automated traffic law violations against a person in
such a proceeding. Upon commencement of the action, the city shall file a
certified copy or record of the final determination of parking, standing,
compliance or automated traffic law violation, which shall be accompanied by a
certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the final
determination of violation was issued in accordance with this chapter and the
applicable city ordinance. Service of the summons and a copy of the petition
may be made by any method provided for by section 2-203 of the code of civil
procedure or by certified mail, return receipt requested, provided that the
total amount of fines and penalties for final determination of parking,
standing, compliance or automated traffic law violations does not exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). If the court is satisfied that the
final determination of parking, standing, compliance or automated traffic law
violation was entered in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.2-1 et seq., and that the registered owner
or the lessee, as the case may be, had an opportunity for an administrative
hearing and for judicial review as provided herein, the court shall render
judgment in favor of the city and against the registered owner or lessee for
the amount indicated in the final determination of parking, standing,
compliance or automated traffic law violation, plus costs. The judgment shall
have the same effect and may be enforced in the same manner as other judgments
for recovery of money. (Ord. 09-0-17, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
5.5.14: PENALTY:
Unless the driver of the vehicle cited for an automated traffic law violation
received a uniform traffic citation from a police officer at the time of the
violation, the owner of the vehicle is subject to a penalty of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per violation. In the event such penalty is not paid within
thirty (30) days after service of a violation notice, the penalty shall
increase to two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 09-0-17, 3-3-2009, eff. 5-1-
2009)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6.1A.1: Street Construction
6.1A.2: Street Repairs
6.1A.3: Driveways
6.1A.4: Closing Streets To Traffic
6.1A.5: Removal Of Snow And Ice
6.1A.6: Obstruction Of Streets
6.1A.7: Encroachments
6.1A.8: Use Of Sidewalks During Building Operations
6.1A.9: Openings In Streets
6.1A.10: Street Trees
6.1A.11: Street Numbers
6.1A.12: Maintenance Of Parkway
6.1A.1: STREET CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   No person shall construct or lay any new pavement on any street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way, without a permit. Applications for such
permits shall state the location of the intended pavement, the extent thereof,
and the person who is to do the actual construction work. No permit shall be
issued except on order of the Director of Community Development or his
designee.
   B.   All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformity with
specifications laid down or approved by the Director of Community Development
or his designee. (Ord. 2315, 11-19-1991)
6.1A.2: STREET REPAIRS:
All street, alley and sidewalk pavements shall be kept in good repair. Repair
work, whether done by the City or by the abutting owner, shall be under the
supervision of the Director of Public Works or his designee. (Ord. 2315, 11-19-
1991)
6.1A.3: DRIVEWAYS:
   A.   Permit: No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles across any
sidewalk in the City without a permit. No permit for the construction of a
driveway onto a street for commercial use, or the habitual use of anyone other
than the owner or occupant of the premises served, shall be issued except upon
the order of the Director of Community Development. The fee for such permit is
three dollars ($3.00) per foot of drive width.
   B.   Construction: No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave
a step, sharp depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade shall
be as nearly as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk. The
surface finish of any driveway where the same crosses the sidewalk shall not be
constructed of such materials as to render it slippery and hazardous for
pedestrians. Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete or of
such materials as may be approved by the City Council.
   C.   Repairs: Every person maintaining a driveway shall keep it in good
repair where it crosses the sidewalk, and free from obstruction and openings.
(Ord. 2315, 11-19-1991)
6.1A.4: CLOSING STREETS TO TRAFFIC:
The Director of Public Works or his designee shall close to traffic any street
in the City which is in such a condition that traffic upon it would do harm to
the street surface. The Director of Public Works or his designee shall place
adequate barricades shutting off traffic from such street, which barricades
shall be lighted at night. No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street
which has been so barricaded. (Ord. 2315, 11-19-1991)
6.1A.5: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit accumulations of snow
from private property onto any street, road or public way in the City. (Ord.
2315, 11-19-1991; amd. Ord. 09-0-24, 4-21-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
6.1A.6: OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS:
No person shall create or maintain any obstruction of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, except as may be specifically authorized by
ordinance, by the City Manager or by the City Manager's designee. (Ord. 2315,
11-19-1991; amd. Ord. 20-O-35. 5-20-2020)
6.1A.7: ENCROACHMENTS:
No person shall erect or maintain any building or structure which encroaches
upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public place.
   A.   Display Of Goods: No person shall use any street, sidewalk or other
public place for the display or sale of goods or merchandise, or write or mark
any signs or advertisements on any pavement without expressed approval of the
City Council.
   B.   Materials On Streets:
      1.   Materials may be deposited in a street preparatory to delivery or
use, provided such deposit does not reduce the usable width of the roadway at
that point to less than eighteen feet (18').
      2.   Material other than actual building construction material shall not
be permitted to remain on a street for more than three (3) hours.
      3.   Material shall be guarded by lights if such material remains upon
any street at night.
      4.   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on a sidewalk
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width of the walk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4'), and provided that no such article
shall remain on such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour.
   C.   Building Materials On Streets: The use of streets for the storage of
materials in the process of construction or alteration of a building may be
granted where it will not unduly interfere with traffic and will not reduce the
usable width of the roadway to less than eighteen feet (18'). No portion of the
street other than that directly abutting on the premises on which work is being
done shall be used except with the consent of the owner or occupant of the
premises abutting such portion. Any person seeking to make such use of the
street shall file an application for a permit with the Director of Public
Works, together with a bond with sureties to be approved by the Director of
Public Works, to indemnify the City for any loss or damage which may be
incurred by it by reason of such use and occupation. (Ord. 2315, 11-19-1991)
6.1A.8: USE OF SIDEWALKS DURING BUILDING OPERATIONS:
No sidewalk shall be obstructed in the course of building construction or
alteration without a special permit from the Director of Community Development.
Whenever the removal of a sidewalk is required in such work, a special permit
from the Director of Community Development shall be obtained. (Ord. 2315, 11-
19-1991)
6.1A.9: OPENINGS IN STREETS:
No person shall construct or maintain any opening or stairway in any street,
alley or sidewalk without the approval of the City Council. All such lawfully
maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable strong cover or railing,
approved by the Director of Public Works or his designee. (Ord. 2315, 11-19-
1991)
6.1A.10: STREET TREES 1 :
   A.   Trees In Streets:
      1.   No person shall plant any tree or bush in any street or parkway or
other public place without first obtaining the approval of the Director of
Public Works or his designee.
      2.   No person shall remove or cut down any tree or shrub in any street
or public place without a permit.
      3.   No person shall injure any tree or shrub planted or growing in any
street or public place.
      4.   No person shall attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any
tree, pole or shrub in any street or public place.
   B.   Overhanging Trees:
      1.   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other
public place in the City so as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel
shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the premises on
which the tree or shrub grows so as to remove the obstruction.
      2.   Any tree or limb of a tree which is likely to fall on or across any
street, sidewalk or other public place shall be removed by the owner of the
premises on which such tree stands.
      3.   The Director of Public Works or his designee may trim or remove any
tree or shrub which obstructs or endangers traffic or travel.
   C.   Wires On Trees: No person shall attach any wire or rope to any tree or
shrub in any street, parkway or other public place without the permission of
the Director of Public Works. Any person maintaining poles and wires in the
streets, alleys or other public places shall, in the absence of provision in
the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles free from and
away from any trees and shrubs in such places so far as may be possible, and
shall keep all such trees and shrubs near such wires and poles properly
trimmed, subject to the supervision of the Director of Public Works or his
designee so that no injury shall be done either to the poles or wires or to the
shrubs and trees by their contact. (Ord. 2315, 11-19-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 4, chapter 1, article A of this Code.
6.1A.11: STREET NUMBERS:
The Director of Community Development shall keep a chart showing the proper
street number of every lot in the City, which chart shall be open to
inspection. (Ord. 2315, 11-19-1991; amd. Ord. 07-O-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1A.12: MAINTENANCE OF PARKWAY:
It shall be the duty of each owner of or person residing on property abutting
on a parkway area to maintain the grass on the parkway by keeping its height at
a level which complies with this Code. This duty shall extend only to grass and
weed cutting and its imposition does not entail any further duties or
responsibilities except as provided in section
6.1A.10 of this article. (Ord. 17-O-64, 7-18-2017)
ARTICLE B. EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
6.1B.1: Excavation Notices
6.1B.2: Excavation Permits
6.1B.3: Backfilling And Resurfacing
6.1B.4: Charges For Backfilling, Resurfacing, And Final Restoration
6.1B.5: Barricades
6.1B.1: EXCAVATION NOTICES:
Whenever improvement of any portion of any street or alley is ordered by the
city council, the director of public works or his designee shall notify all
interested utility companies and all property owners abutting the improvement
and other interested persons of such order advising them to take steps, prior
to the construction of the improvement, to perform all desired or necessary
excavations for placing pipes, conduits, sewers, wires or other facilities in
such public ways under, over, on or adjacent to the improvements. The persons
so notified shall make such excavations before the improvement work is begun,
or at such time deemed convenient by the director of public works or his
designee prior to completion of the improvement. (1963 Code, §27.23)
6.1B.2: EXCAVATION PERMITS:
   A.   Application: No person shall dig, excavate, remove, cut or in any
manner tunnel under or break the surface of any part of any street, alley or
public way unless an excavation permit to do so has been issued by the director
of public works or his designee, according to the conditions of this article.
Each applicant shall submit to the director of public works a sketch map
showing the location and the purpose of the excavation, the date of
application, and the signature of the applicant. The excavation permit shall
show the date of application, the place of the excavation, the estimated date
when the same will be made, the permit fee paid, and the name of the applicant,
who shall state that the person has filed with the director of public works a
bond as required in this article. (1963 Code, §27.24)
   B.   Conditions: The excavation permit shall be void thirty (30) days from
the date of issue if the initial work has not been started, and the person
granted the permit shall perform the work with all possible speed. The permit
shall always be in the possession of the person in charge of the work or
working at the location, so that the permit may be produced for inspection at
any time upon request by authorized city officials. (1963 Code, §27.24; amd.
1986 Code)
   C.   Separate Permits: A separate excavation permit is required for each
interrupted alteration of the surface or undersurface of any street or alley;
provided, that when multiple cuts are made at the same approximate time for
purposes of repairing or servicing underground utilities, one permit and one
permit fee shall apply for each three hundred foot (300') section of gas main
over which such multiple cuts are made. Minimum charges for resurfacing shall
apply to each such three hundred foot (300') section. (1963 Code, §27.24)
   D.   Fee: The fee for each permit is one hundred dollars ($100.00), which
shall be paid to the city of Woodstock at the time the permit is applied for,
and no portion of that fee is refundable. In addition to the one hundred dollar
($100.00) permit fee, the applicant shall provide the city with a deposit in
the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) at the time the permit is applied
for. That deposit amount is to be refunded at the request of the applicant,
less costs incurred by the city related to the permit activity, upon the final
completion of all right of way restoration and approval of that restoration by
the department of public works. (Ord. 08-0-18, 4-15-2008)
   E.   Emergencies: In case of a break of a gas main or other emergency which
might, in the opinion of the director of public works or his designee, prove
harmful to the public health or welfare or cause serious damage, the director
of public works or his designee may grant an emergency permit verbally, to be
entered subsequently as written permit as hereinabove provided.
   F.   Authority: The director of public works shall have authority and it
shall be his duty to exercise his judgment in the public interest in the
issuance of excavation permits with respect to the size, location,
specifications and timing of excavations or other conditions. (1963 Code,
§27.24)
6.1B.3: BACKFILLING AND RESURFACING:
   A.   The work of backfilling excavations in a street right of way shall be
done exclusively by the city or under contract let by the city up to a point
one foot (1') back on the boulevard side of the curb or curb line, except that
a cut made by a private utility company shall be backfilled by the company in
order to ensure protection of facilities. The backfilling of excavations more
than one foot (1') back of the curb or curb line shall be the responsibility of
the person who took out the excavation permit. He shall perform such
backfilling promptly and shall continue to be responsible for liability and
maintenance of the excavation for a period of twenty four (24) months after the
permit date. He shall promptly perform such backfilling.
   B.   The work of removing all excess material, spoil, and debris from any
excavation shall be the responsibility of the person who took out the
excavation permit. The removal shall include all work to clean and sweep the
street, and all material must be removed from the street right of way within
twenty four (24) hours of the time the excavation was completed.
   C.   The work of resurfacing and constructing a base on top of backfill
material and under the finished surfacing material shall be done exclusively by
the city or directly under city supervision. Also, the replacement of curbs and
sidewalks damaged or removed in the course of an excavation shall be performed
exclusively by the city or under city supervision.
   D.   Any settlement within twenty four (24) months after the permit date of
any resurfacing patch over a street cut backfilled by a private utility
company, shall be held to be the responsibility of the utility company who
shall, upon direction of the director of public works or his designee,
reexcavate and properly refill the street cut.
   E.   The methods and materials used in performing all backfilling,
resurfacing and reconstruction of curbs and sidewalks resulting from
excavations in a street right of way shall be subject to the specifications and
direction of the director of public works or his designee.
   F.   The city will accept responsibility for backfilling, repairing and
safeguarding an excavation up to one foot (1') back of the curb or curb line,
provided the director of public works or his designee has been notified and has
acknowledged such notification by preparing a written acceptance of
notification and responsibility. The city will not accept responsibility for an
excavation on the same day that notification is received. If notification is
received after nine o'clock (9:00) A.M., the effective time of the director of
public work's acceptance of notification and responsibility shall not be sooner
than nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. the following day.
   G.   During the period of official acceptance by the city of responsibility
for an excavation, the person in whose name the excavation permit was issued
shall be fully responsible for suitable protection of the excavation in such
manner as to prevent accidents therefrom to persons, vehicles and animals
passing near the same.
   H.   Immediately upon acceptance of city responsibility for an excavation,
the department of public works shall perform the needed work with dispatch and
notify the department of finance as to volume of fill, area resurfaced or
linear feet of curb repaired.
   I.   The department of public works may enlarge the size of the cut to the
extent necessary to square off edges and shall include such enlarged area to be
resurfaced in figures submitted to the department of finance for billing
purposes.
   J.   Whenever the excavator has broken a portion of a square of sidewalk,
the entire square shall be replaced, and the total square footage replaced
shall be reported to the department of finance for billing purposes. (1963
Code, §27.26; amd. 1986 Code)
6.1B.4: CHARGES FOR BACKFILLING, RESURFACING, AND FINAL RESTORATION:
There shall be a charge by the city for the repair of excavations, backfilling,
leveling and grading, resurfacing, topsoiling and seeding, and all related
final restoration within a public right of way; at the following minimum rates
and amounts:
Backfilling:                                                                      
                                                                                 $2.00/
   With dirt (over 50 sq. yds. but less than 100 sq. yds.) at 4"/sq. yd.      sq.
                                                                                 yd.
                                                                                 1.70/
   With dirt (over 100 sq. yds.) at 4"/sq. yd.                                sq.
                                                                                 yd.
   With sand                                                                  4.00/
                                                                                 ton1
   With gravel (CA6)                                                          8.10/
                                                                                 ton1
   With gravel (GR9)                                                          8.10/
                                                                                 ton1
Surface:                                                                          
                                                                                 9.00/
   Asphalt street - 2" base thickness                                         sq.
                                                                                 yd.
                                                                                 27.00/
   Asphalt street - 6" base thickness                                         sq.
                                                                                 yd.
                                                                                 14.00/
   Brick pavement or surface                                                  sq.
                                                                                 yd.
                                                                                 3.50/
   Concrete sidewalk - 4" with gravel base                                    sq.
                                                                                 ft.
                                                                                 4.25/
   Concrete driveway - 6" with gravel base                                    sq.
                                                                                 ft.
Curb:                                                                             
   Concrete curb and gutter - B6.12                                           25.00/
                                                                                 l. ft.
Lawn Restoration:                                                                 
                                                                                 3.00/
   Finish grade, topsoil, and place sod                                       sq.
                                                                                 yd.
                                                                                 2.00/
   Finish grade, seed, fertilize - less than 50 sq. ft.                       sq.
                                                                                 ft.
                                                                                 1.70/
   Finish grade, seed, fertilize - more than 50 sq. ft.                       sq.
                                                                                 ft.
Barricade Rental:                                                                 
   Type II with lights                                                        2.00/
                                                                                 day
   The minimum charge shall be for 4 barricades per location                   
Vehicles And Equipment:                                                           
   Cost of vehicles and equipment shall be charged based on the city's annual
rental rates, as established from time to time by the department of public        
works.
Labor Costs:                                                                      
   Labor costs shall be based on the time actually spent on the backfill and
restoration project, as determined by the city, at the employee's actual rate of  
pay. Costs for time needed outside of normal work hours will be billed at a
minimum charge of 2 hours.
 
Note:
1. The minimum charge per excavation shall be $30.00 for each of these items.
(Ord. 2547, 4-18-1995, eff. 5-1-1995)
6.1B.5: BARRICADES:
   A.   Any person laying or repairing or making any excavation in any pavement
on a street, alley, sidewalk or other public place shall maintain suitable
barricades to prevent injury to any person or vehicle. The barricades shall be
protected by lights at night.
   B.   No person shall disturb or interfere with any barricade or lights
lawfully placed in any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place. (1963
Code, §27.28)
   C.   All barricades shall be properly placed and installed prior to
beginning any work on a right of way and shall be maintained until all
backfilling has been completed. (1986 Code)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AFFECTING PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6.1C.1: Missiles
6.1C.2: Deposits On Streets
6.1C.3: Barbed Wire And Electric Fences
6.1C.4: Gas Pumps
6.1C.5: Scaffolds
6.1C.6: Articles On Windows
6.1C.7: Games In Streets
6.1C.8: Injury To Streets
6.1C.1: MISSILES:
No person shall throw, cast or propel any missile on any street, alley or
public place. (1963 Code, §27.03; amd. 1986 Code)
6.1C.2: DEPOSITS ON STREETS:
No person shall deposit on any street, alley or sidewalk any material which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass or
other articles which may injure any person or property. (1963 Code, §27.04)
6.1C.3: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES:
No person shall maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or in part of
barbed wire or similar material designed to cause injury to persons, or any
wire charged with electric current. (1963 Code, §27.09; amd. 1986 Code)
6.1C.4: GAS PUMPS:
No person shall maintain or erect any gasoline pump or tank in or under any
public street, alley or sidewalk. (1963 Code, §27.10)
6.1C.5: SCAFFOLDS:
Any scaffolds or ladders placed in such a position that they overhang or can
fall onto any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way in the City shall be
firmly and properly constructed and safeguarded; and no person shall leave or
place any tools or articles on any such place in such a manner that the same
can fall onto such street, sidewalk or other public way from a greater height
than four feet (4'). (1963 Code, §27.11)
6.1C.6: ARTICLES ON WINDOWS:
No person shall place any movable article on any window ledge, or other place
abutting on a street, sidewalk, alley or other public place at a height above
four feet (4') from the ground, in such a manner that the same can be or is in
danger of falling onto such street, sidewalk or other public place. (1963 Code,
§27.12)
6.1C.7: GAMES IN STREETS:
No person shall play any games upon any street, alley or sidewalk where such
games cause unnecessary noise or interfere with the traffic or pedestrians.
(1963 Code, §27.14)
6.1C.8: INJURY TO STREETS:
   A.   No person shall injure any sidewalk, street or alley pavement. (1963
Code, §27.15)
   B.   No person shall walk or drive any vehicle upon, or injure any newly
laid street or sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a warning sign or
barricade, or knowingly injure any soft, newly-laid pavement. (1963 Code,
§27.16)
ARTICLE D. CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF- WAY
SECTION:
6.1D.1: Purpose And Scope
6.1D.2: Definitions
6.1D.3: Annual Registration Required
6.1D.4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
6.1D.5: Action On Permit Applications
6.1D.6: Effect Of Permit
6.1D.7: Revised Permit Drawings
6.1D.8: Insurance
6.1D.9: Indemnification
6.1D.10: Security
6.1D.11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
6.1D.12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
6.1D.13: General Construction Standards
6.1D.14: Traffic Control
6.1D.15: Location Of Facilities
6.1D.16: Construction Methods And Materials
6.1D.17: Vegetation Control
6.1D.18: Removal, Relocation Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
6.1D.19: Cleanup And Restoration
6.1D.20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
6.1D.21: Variances
6.1D.22: Penalties
6.1D.23: Enforcement
6.1D.24: Small Wireless Facilities
6.1D.1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the City's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage and visual qualities of the City
rights-of-way and the City as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this article, the City intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the City and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
City's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the City's residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   C.   Facilities Subject To This Article: This article applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the City. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this article may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The City, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the City
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the City enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the City may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
article.
   E.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the City, such franchise, license or similar agreement
shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any lawful
renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this article and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the City and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   F.   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This article supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   G.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
article, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this article to the
maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws or regulations.
   H.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The City shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this article and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this article when the City so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the City
to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare. (Ord. 07-O-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in section
1.3.2 of this Code or 92 Illinois Administrative Code section 530.30, unless
the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
   ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
   APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this article.
   BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
   COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right-of- way lines
of a right-of-way.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Pursuant to section
1.7D.2 of this Code, the duly appointed Director of Public Works or his or her
designee.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY: For the purposes of this article, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right- of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
   EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across or within rights-of-way under this article.
For purposes of this article, the term "facility" shall not include any
facility owned or operated by the City.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
engineer or Director of Public Works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk
to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological
balance of the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives,
radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons,
etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any Federal or State law, statute or
regulation.
   HIGHWAY: A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. Highway includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois Highway Code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
101 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
   ICC: Illinois Commerce Commission.
   IDOT: Illinois Department of Transportation.
   JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program, operated pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
1 et seq.
   JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
   OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under the right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY: Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to
sections
6.1D.4 and
6.1D.5 of this article.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES ANTENNA: A structure, antenna, equipment,
accessory equipment and related improvements used, or designed to be used, to
provide wireless transmission of voice, data, images, or other information,
including, but not limited to, cellular phone service, personal communication
service, and paging service.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane or coal slurry.
   PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the City. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, State or Federal level.
   RESTORATION: The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the City has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the City. Right-of-way or rights-of-way shall not include any
real or personal City property that is not specifically described in the
previous sentence and shall not include City buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right-of-way.
   ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
6.1D.10 of this article.
   SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
   A.   Telecommunications shall not include:
      1.   Value added services in which computer processing applications are
used to act on the form, content, code and protocol of the information for
purposes other than transmission.
      2.   Purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications service
provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such provider
to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end to end
communications.
      3.   The provision of cable services through a cable system as defined in
the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now
or hereafter amended, or cable or other programming services subject to an open
video system fee payable to the City through an open video system as defined in
the rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and
following), as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Every person engaged in making sales of
telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as
defined in this article.
   VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois
Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201
(v).
   WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 07-O-102,
12-4-2007; amd. Ord. 16-O-46, 8-2-2016; Ord. 17-O-26, 3-21-2017; Ord. 18-O-43,
6-16-2018)
6.1D.3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the City shall register by
January 1 of each year with the Director of Public Works, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right-of-
way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and
evidence of insurance as required in section
6.1D.8 of this article, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 07-O-
102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this article, no
person shall construct any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across
or within any City right-of-way which: 1) changes the location of the facility,
2) adds a new facility, 3) disrupts the right-of-way, or 4) materially
increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on, over, above,
along, under, across or within the right-of-way, without first filing an
application with the Director of Public Works and obtaining a permit from the
City. No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the
right-of-way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
article shall be filed on a form provided by the City and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the City may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address, telephone and telecopy numbers and
an e-mail address contact.
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address and its interest in the work.
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application.
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed.
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the City:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the City and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the City finds that additional information or assurances are
needed.
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations.
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
6.1D.8 of this article.
      8.   Evidence of posting of the Security Fund as required in section
6.1D.10 of this article.
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
article (see section
6.1D.21 of this article).
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
City.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority.
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures.
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied.
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control, and City have been satisfied.
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed. (Ord. 07-O-102, 12-4-2007)
      6.   In the case of the installation of small wireless antenna/towers on
either new or existing poles or structures, the provisions of section
6.1D.24 of this article also shall apply, and in the event of any conflict,
those provisions shall control. (Ord. 18-O-43, 6-16-2018)
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the City within thirty (30) days after
the change necessitating the amendment. (Ord. 07-O-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   City Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Director of
Public Works within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and
regulations, the Director of Public Works shall reject such application in
writing, stating the reasons. If the Director of Public Works is satisfied that
the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this article and applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, the Director of Public Works
shall issue a permit as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the
duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Director of
Public Works, that the construction proposed under the application shall be in
full compliance with the requirements of this article. (Ord. 07-O-102, 12-4-
2007)
The City may retain an independent qualified consultant to review any
application for a permit to install a personal wireless telecommunication
facility, wireless services facility or wireless facility or modification to
such an existing facility. The review is intended to be a review of technical
aspects of the proposed improvement and the cost of the independent review
shall be paid by the applicant prior to issuance of the permit. No independent
review cost is required to be paid by any telecommunication retailer that is
currently paying the Municipal Telecommunication Tax. (Ord. 17-O-26, 3-21-2017)
   B.   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the City
that it intends to commence work governed by this article for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the City not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The Director of
Public Works shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event the Director of Public Works fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: a)
ten (10) days after service of notice to the City by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or
b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this article, although in all other appropriate respects, the
telecommunications retailer shall be bound by the provisions of this article.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the City, where a permit
is required for work pursuant to section
6.1D.4 of this article the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the City
an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a State issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the City, unless otherwise acted upon by the City, provided
the holder has complied with applicable City codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 07-O-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the City authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this article on City rights-of-way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this article shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Preconstruction Meeting Required: At the election of the city, no
construction shall begin pursuant to a permit issued under this article prior
to attendance by the permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who
will perform any work under the permit at a preconstruction meeting. The
preconstruction meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by
the city with such city representatives in attendance as the city deems
necessary. The meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the
permit, and reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work
will occur, including, without limitation, presence or absence of other utility
facilities in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of
other utilities, use of rights of way by the public during construction, and
access and egress by adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Required Laws: The issuance of a city permit does
not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of the city and
applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. (Ord. 07-0-102,
12-4-2007)
6.1D.7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any material
respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and specifications
submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall submit a revised set
of drawings or plans to the city within ninety (90) days after the completion
of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall specifically
identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from the
locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this article, it shall be treated as a
request for a variance in accordance with section
6.1D.21 of this article. If the city denies the request, then the permittee
shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify the facility
so it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans therefor.
(Ord. 07-0-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the city, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents
and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed below:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C" and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
required policies to the city within ten (10) days following receipt of a
written request from the city.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until 30 days after receipt by the City, by
registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a written
notice addressed to the City Manager of such intent to cancel or not to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no event
later than ten (10) days prior to cancellation, the utility shall obtain and
furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the city evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-
insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under subsection
A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private self-
insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company. (Ord. 07-0-102, 12-4-
2007)
6.1D.9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this article or by a franchise, license or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
article by the city, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 07-0-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount set forth in this section. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this article;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the city occasioned by
the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this article; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims, costs
or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this article including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this article to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this article or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the city in the
form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the city, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
city. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this section
shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the city of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the state
at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the director of public works, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs that the city estimates are likely to be
incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the city, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the director of
public works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to
post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The city, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written notice
clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights
under this section, may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided
that the permittee has not reimbursed the city for such amount within the
fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this article that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the city that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund,
the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in this
section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the city,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the city, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the city for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
article or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the city to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the city as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the city with respect to the
security fund are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether reserved
by this article or otherwise authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or
exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect any other
right the city may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city shall not be
entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its rights which
may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 07-0-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   City Right To Revoke Permit: The city may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this article for one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this article;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The city shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this article
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the city providing written proof of such removal to the
city within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of revocation.
The city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time periods
provided in this section.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within this section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of this section, the city or its designee may, at
the option of the city: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2) upon not less than
twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the subject facilities or
equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days' notice to the permittee
of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and property of the
city. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the city for all costs of
removal. (Ord. 07-0-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the city no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this article, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city's right of
way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 07-O-102,
12-4-2007)
6.1D.13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right-of-way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. Adm.
Code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
article, the Director of Public Works shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the Director of Public Works shall state which standard or
principle will apply to the construction, maintenance or operation of a
facility in the future. (Ord. 07-O-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The City's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this Code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable Federal, State, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so there is minimum
interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
6.1D.20 of this article, the utility shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the City. (Ord. 07-O-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this section.
      1.   No Interference With City Facilities: No utility facilities shall be
placed in any location if the Director of Public Works determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
City's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the City's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way line
and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The city may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
[1989]).
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The city may
require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are not
highways, rather than within particular highways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The city may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
      2.   The city may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view in a manner appropriate for the
surrounding environment, and the city may require the facility's owner to
maintain such screening.
   F.   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 07-0-
102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the director
of public works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall
be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or
jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly
marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the city to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the director of public works.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the city to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the director of public works, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
director of public works.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
6.1D.21 of this article, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the director of public works.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
city.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the city. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                        Minimum Cover
Electric lines                          30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service   18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                   determined by the city)
Gas or petroleum products               30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                              Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                        protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                    protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within city rights of way shall be constructed, operated and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the ICC) entitled "rules for construction of
electric power and communications lines", and the national electrical safety
code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers" or
other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the city. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers" or other approved methods which
compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a city approved
manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of pipeline
safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 - transportation of
natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety standards (49 CFR
section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction"
and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Water Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the director of public works. With the approval of
the director of public works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be
used in place of vegetation free area. The housing for ground mounted
appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the ICC
or the standards established by other official regulatory agencies for the
appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on the
right of way without the prior written approval of the director of public
works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross
arms or other materials shall be distributed along the right of way prior to
and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval must be
obtained from the city.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the city, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the director of public works
when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the city shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The city will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the city or by
JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 07-0-
102, 12-4-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
6.1D.17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable state laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the city as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right of way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable state laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this article.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The City may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The City may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the following subsection, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the City for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Director of Public Works that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control. (Ord. 07-O-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the City,
a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the Corporate Authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance or installation
of any City initiated or mandated improvement in or upon, or the operations of
the City in or upon, the rights-of- way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the City, any utility that owns, controls or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this article; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The City retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the City, as the City may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the City shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior to
cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the City, the utility shall notify the City within ninety (90)
days. Following receipt of such notice the City may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the Director of Public Works
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event the City does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
City, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 07-O-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights-of-way
are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the City. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the Director of Public Works. Such cleanup
and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding,
resodding or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project. The time period provided in this section may be extended by the
Director of Public Works for good cause shown. (Ord. 07-O-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities and any associated screening or landscaping on,
over, above, along, upon, under, across or within rights-of-way are to be
maintained by or for the utility in a manner satisfactory to the City and at
the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Director of Public Works, or his or her duly authorized agent, of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the Police Department shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the City a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 07-O-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.21: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this article must do so in writing to the Director of
Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this article from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The Director of Public Works shall decide
whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this article identified
in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The Director of Public Works may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are not
practical in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Director of Public Works may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this article but which carry out the
purposes of this article.
   E.   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Director
of Public Works under the provisions of this article shall have the right to
appeal to the City Council, or such other council or commission as it may
designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the City
Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The City Council shall commence its consideration of
the appeal at the Council's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least
seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The City Council shall timely
decide the appeal. (Ord. 07-O-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to a fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this Code, not to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) per violation per day. There may be times when the City will
incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the utility
will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this article. Unless
the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the
requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the City's costs of
damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating or
removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other
administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit related
cost apportionment of the City. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that
does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord. 07-O-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this article shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the City may have for enforcement of this article. (Ord.
07-O-102, 12-4-2007)
6.1D.24: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose And Scope:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the City's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the City exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Illinois Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act (PA 100-0585).
      2.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This section supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
      3.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
section, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
section to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:
   ACT: The Illinois Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act 50 ILCS 840/1 et
seq., as may be subsequently amended.
   ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency (RF) radiation, to be operated or operating from a fixed
location pursuant to federal communications commission (FCC) authorization, for
the provision of personal wireless service and any commingled information
services. The antenna does not include an unintentional radiator, mobile
station or device..
   APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT: Any person or entity that submits an application and the agents,
employees and contractors of such person or entity.
   APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the City for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities at a specified location, and a request that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well
as any applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522
(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153
(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51),
as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE: A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: 1) listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section
VI.D.1.a.i through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement
codified at 47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or 2) designated as a locally landmarked
building, property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the
City pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the
Certified Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation
Office or where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois
State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the City in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT: A written authorization required by the City to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE: A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. Right-of-way does not include City-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: 1) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and 2) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
1) equipment associated with wireless communications; and 2) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: 1) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or 2) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the City.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole.
   C.   Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities:
      1.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
paragraph i. regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to
zoning review or approval if they are collocated: a) in rights-of-way in any
zoning district, or b) outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for
commercial or industrial use.
      2.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the City to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements.
   D.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the City, together with the City's Small Wireless
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
      1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
      2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or utility
pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its immediate
surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each proposed
small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility poles or
structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the completed
facility;
      3.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
      4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
      5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
      6.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge; and
      7.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the City, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      8.   Certification by a radio engineer that a new, replacement or
modified small wireless facility operates within all applicable FCC standards.
   E.   Application Process: The City shall process applications as follows:
      1.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
      2.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis after the submission of a completed application.
FCC regulation provides than an application to collocate a small wireless to
collocate a small wireless facility using an existing structure shall be
granted or denied within sixty (60) days of submission of a completed
application. Delays beyond that time limit are available only in exceptional
circumstances or with the consent of the applicant.
      3.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that includes
the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis after the submission of a completed application.
FCC regulation provides that an application to collocate a small wireless
facility using a new structure shall be granted or denied within ninety (90)
days of submission of a completed application. Delays beyond that time limit
are available only in exceptional circumstances or with the consent of the
applicant.
      4.   The City shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this section.If the City determines that applicable codes,
ordinances or regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or
wireless support structure be replaced before the requested collocation,
approval shall be conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or
wireless support structure at the cost of the provider.
The City shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the City denies an
application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the City and resubmit the
revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of denial is sent
to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The City shall
approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require the applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the City's review period.
The applicant must notify the City in writing of its intention to proceed with
the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted with
the revised application.
Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the denial. However, this revised application does not apply if the cure
requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
      5.   Within thirty (30) days after an approved permit to collocate a
small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, the City and the applicant
shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement, provided by the City for
the initial collocation on a Municipal utility pole by the application. For
subsequent approved permits to collocate a small wireless facility on a
Municipal utility pole, the City and the applicant shall enter into a License
Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement. The director of public
works, or his or her designee, is authorized to execute the pole attachment
agreement on behalf of the city following review and approval by the city
attorney of any revisions.
   F.   Completeness Of Application: Within ten (10) days after receiving an
application, the City shall determine whether the application is complete and
notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the City must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the City fails to provide notification to the applicant within ten
(10) days after all documents, information and fees specifically enumerated in
the City's permit application form are submitted by the applicant to the City.
FCC regulation allows ten (10) days for determination of completion, and that
ten (10) day time frame replaces the thirty (30) day period provided in the
state act.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the City sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
   G.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
      1.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the City; or
      2.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar emergency
that causes the delay.
   H.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the City may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The City may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
   I.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period of
not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the City makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or
the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable City codes
or any provision, condition or requirement contained in this section.
If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of permits
shall be subject to the applicable City Code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
   J.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit applications,
supporting information and notices to the City by personal delivery at the
City's designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked on the date due
or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   K.   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The City may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the City's electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the City reasonably determines
that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
section. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      3.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
The City may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   Utility Pole Restrictions: The wireless provider shall not collocate
small wireless facilities on City utility poles that are part of an electric
distribution or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone
of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the City utility pole and on the top
of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider complies
with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      5.   Compliance: The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable
codes, including acoustic regulations, and local code provisions or regulations
that concern public safety.
      6.   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with the
following design standards and any variations from these design standards may
only be granted pursuant to the variance provisions of section
6.1D.21 of this article:
         a.   Screening: Whenever any equipment or appurtenances are to be
installed at grade, screening must be installed to minimize the visibility of
the facility and shall not be permitted to obstruct sight lines or to create
other traffic or safety problems.
         b.   Color And Stealth: All wireless facilities subject to this
section, including all related equipment and appurtenances, must be a color
that blends with the surroundings of the pole, structure tower or
infrastructure on which it is mounted. The color must be comprised of
nonreflective materials which blend with the materials and colors of the
surrounding area and structures. The applicant shall use good faith efforts to
employ reasonable stealth techniques to conceal the appearance of the wireless
facilities. Any pole extension shall not be metallic or wood and shall blend
with the color of the pole upon which they are mounted.
         c.   Wiring And Cabling: Wires and cables connecting the antenna to
the remainder of the facility must be installed in accordance with the National
Electrical Code and National Electrical Safety Code adopted by the City and in
force at the time of the installation of the facility. Any wiring must be
covered with an appropriate cover. No wiring and cabling serving the facility
will be allowed to interfere with any existing uses.
      7.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this collocation
requirements and conditions subsection, a wireless provider shall not be
required to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole,
or category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna
systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for
the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility
pole, the City may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within two hundred
feet (200') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the City, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the
criteria in this paragraph.
      8.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the City, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the City, provided the City may designate which
intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height limitation
for such facility; or
         b.   Fifty feet (50') above ground level. The fifty foot (50') limit
provided by FCC regulation replaces the limit of forty-five feet (45') under
the act.
      9.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance as provided in section
6.1D.21 of this article.
      10.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the City and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground- mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      11.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: Subject to the variance
provisions of this article (section
6.1D.21 of this article) and State law, the wireless provider shall comply with
applicable spacing requirements of this article concerning the location of
ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      12.   Undergrounding Regulations: Subject to the variance provisions of
this article (section
6.1D.21 of this article) and State law, the wireless provider shall comply with
the provisions of this article concerning undergrounding requirements that
prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility poles
in a right-of-way without prior approval.
      13.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the City and the wireless provider agree to extend this
period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility pole or
by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided
the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days after
the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the
additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred sixty
(360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be void
unless the City grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   L.   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures. The fees established by this
ordinance are equal to the limit imposed by the act and represent a reasonable
approximation of the city’s objectively reasonable costs. The city shall
regularly review the fees imposed and may adjust the fees by further amendment
to this chapter.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   The City shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the City at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications and certifications for any of
the replacement equipment consistent with the section titled “Application
Requirements”; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the City to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   M.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this section authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the City or another unit of local government that is not located within rights-
of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure without
the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the
Illinois Public Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public
commuter rail service, or electric utility. The provisions of this section do
not apply to an electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless
facilities if the facilities are being used, developed and maintained
consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the
Illinois Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Illinois Public Utilities Act. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: 1)
to obtain a franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or
video service or 2) to obtain any required permission to install, place,
maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless
facilities subject to this section.
   N.   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the City and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
City utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the City's utility poles pursuant
to applications submitted to the City before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this section.
A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the City on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the City
makes available under this section for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the City
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the City's utility
poles pursuant to applications submitted to the City before the wireless
provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this paragraph.
   O.   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to the City an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a City utility
pole located in a right- of-way that equals: 1) two hundred seventy dollars
($270.00) per year (which amount may be increased by the city manager in the
future to the maximum amount authorized by the federal communications
commission in any future ruling, order or guidance authorizing such fee and
recurring rates) or 2) the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the
wireless provider's use of space on the City utility pole.
If the City has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs, the
fee shall be two hundred seventy dollars ($270.00) (or any amount appropriately
increased by the city manager pursuant to this section) payable on the first
day after the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice
of intent to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   P.   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from the City notifying the wireless
provider of the abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the City to the owner at the last known address of the wireless
provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety (90) days
of such notice, the City may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for Municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the City if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City. Such
notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider.
   Q.   Dispute Resolution: The Circuit Court of McHenry County, Illinois shall
have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under the Small
Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning
rates for collocation of small wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles
within the right-of-way, the City shall allow the collocating person to
collocate on its poles at annual rates of no more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) per year per Municipal utility pole, with rates to be determined upon
final resolution of the dispute.
   R.   Indemnification: A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the City
harmless against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property
damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or
occupancy of the City improvements or right-of-way associated with such
improvements by the wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors
arising out of the rights and privileges granted under this section and the
Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless
against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the City or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall
further waive any claims that they may have against the City with respect to
consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability.
   S.   Insurance: The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless
provider's own cost and expense such insurance as is required by this Code's
provisions for the construction of utilities in the rights-of-way.
The wireless provider shall include the City as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the City in a commercial general liability policy prior to the
collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the City. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this subsection. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the City evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the City. (Ord. 18-O-43, 6-16-2018; amd. Ord. 24-O-
66, 11-5-2024)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, PUBLIC FACILITIES AND PUBLIC GROUNDS
SECTION:
6.2.1: Definitions
6.2.2: Permission Required For Exclusive Use
6.2.3: Deposits, Fees, Waivers And Capital Improvements
6.2.4: Required Police Supervision
6.2.5: Hours For City Parks, Playgrounds, Public Facilities And Public Grounds
6.2.6: Prohibited Acts
6.2.7: Penalties
6.2.1: DEFINITIONS:
   ADULT USER GROUP: Any user group where the “majority,” defined as more than
fifty percent (50%), of the participants are eighteen (18) years of age or
more, at the time of application for a park use permit.
   ATHLETIC FACILITIES: Any public City-owned land specifically used for
sports-related activities such as baseball, softball, soccer or football
fields, and basketball, sand volleyball, tennis and pickleball courts.
   NONRESIDENT USER GROUP: Any user group where less than sixty five percent
(65%) of the total participants of the group are residents of the City of
Woodstock, at the time of application for a park use permit.
   ORGANIZATION: Any business, club, lodge, league, association, or group of
persons, whether incorporated or unincorporated, whether formed for a single or
multiple purpose.
   PARK FACILITIES: Any City-owned personal property, located on any City-owned
land or any public right-of-way including, but not limited to athletic, park
and recreational facilities, benches or seating of any sort, pavilions, tables,
playgrounds, or portable toilets.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES: Any City-owned property, located on any City-owned land
or any public right-of-way including, but not limited to, athletic, park or
recreational facilities, public parking lots, and grounds.
   PUBLIC GROUNDS: Any City-owned land or structure and any City-owned or City-
controlled right-of-way except for public sidewalks and streets.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITIES: Any City-owned buildings or structures open to the
public, either free of charge or with an entry fee, such as Woodstock Water
Works or the Recreation Center.
   RESIDENT USER GROUP: Any user group where sixty five percent (65%) or more
of the total participants of the group are residents of the City of Woodstock,
at the time of application for a park use permit.
   USER GROUP: Any business, club, lodge, league, association, or group of
persons, whether incorporated or unincorporated, whether formed for a single or
multiple purpose, which has received approval from the City of Woodstock for
the exclusive use of a specific park facility, athletic facility, or
recreational facility.
   YOUTH USER GROUP: Any user group where the “majority,” defined as more than
fifty percent (50%), of the participants are under the age of eighteen (18)
years of age, at the time of application for a park use permit and where no
participants are older than nineteen (19) years of age. (Ord. 2605, 2-6-1996;
amd. Ord. 17-O-90, 10-17-2017; Ord. 23-O-63, 12-19-2023)
6.2.2: PERMISSION REQUIRED FOR EXCLUSIVE USE:
   A.   No individual, organization, league, association, or user group shall
be permitted the exclusive use of any City park facility, athletic facility, or
recreational facility without securing permission from the City. Requests for
such permission shall be made in writing, upon forms provided by the City and
submitted to the Recreation Department. A user group shall be required to
submit the appropriate membership information at the same time as the
application is submitted, necessary for the City to determine the user group
type and classification. The City reserves the right to reject applications
that do not include the necessary membership information.
   B.   The City reserves the right to approve or reject any application
submitted for the exclusive use of any City facility. Applications may be
rejected by the City due to scheduling conflicts, maintenance needs, field
closures, unsafe or unacceptable field conditions, incomplete information with
the application, other activities within a park that may be in conflict with
the requested use, lack of payment, past performance of the user group, or
other similar items. (Ord. 23-O-63, 12-19-2023)
6.2.3: DEPOSITS, FEES, WAIVERS AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Deposits And Fees:
      1.   Unless otherwise waived pursuant to this Section, any individual,
organization, association, or user group making application for the exclusive
use of any Park Facility, Athletic Facility, or Recreational Facility shall be
charged a fee and/or a refundable deposit for such usage in accordance with the
City’s fee schedule.
      2.   Fee Schedule: The City Manager, or their designee, shall authorize
the creation of a fee schedule for Park, Athletic and Recreational Facilities,
which shall be updated annually taking CPI and PTELL percentage increases as
well as other costs into consideration for that year. The Parks and Recreation
Commission shall review proposed fees, and upon approval by the City Manager,
or their designee, the fee schedule shall be posted on the City’s Website.
      3.   The City shall have the authority to determine the category of user
group for the purpose of calculating fees and charges. Where possible, the
determination of the user group classification shall be made by the City
utilizing a current list of participants, to be provided by the user group, for
the same year. In the event that a membership list is not available for the
current year, the determination of the user group shall be made by the City
utilizing a list of participants, to be provided by the group, from the
previous year or other reasonable methods for determining estimated
participation if prior participants lists do not exist.
      4.   Each user group shall be required to submit information to the City
as part of the permission request process for the use of City park facilities,
athletic facilities, and recreational facilities. The City reserves the right
to reject any application that does not include the necessary membership
information. In the event that the user group fails to provide the membership
information as part of the permission application, or when requested by the
City, the City may then automatically classify the user group as a “nonresident
user group” and shall charge the appropriate fees.
      5.   Costs: A fee of $150.00 or the cost for staff time and materials to
repair damage or restore the site, whichever amount is greater, will be charged
if it is found that a user has falsified the numbers of persons included in a
party, cleanup is not performed, or if damage occurs to the structure or any of
its components. If this fee is not paid, no further rentals will be considered
for the individual, user group, or the party that has placed the reservation
until this fee has been collected.
   B.   Waivers: The following bodies shall receive fee waivers:
      1.   Community Unit School District 200: In recognition of the ongoing
cooperation between the City and Woodstock Community Unit School District 200
(“District 200") for the sharing of facilities, no fees will be charged to
District 200 for the use by District 200 high schools’ sports programs and
teams of park and athletic facilities. In lieu of charging a direct user fee,
the City will continue to have access to District 200 facilities for City-
sponsored recreational programs and activities.
      2.   Marian Central Catholic High School: In recognition of the ongoing
cooperation between the City and Marian Central Catholic High School for the
sharing of facilities, no fees will be charged to Marian Central Catholic High
School for the use of park and athletic facilities for organized events, such
as team games, by the school’s sports programs and teams. In lieu of charging a
direct user fee, the City and Marian Central Catholic High School will work
together for City access to the high school’s facilities for City-sponsored
recreational programs and activities.
      3.   Pre-Approved User Groups: Pursuant to section C below, certain user
groups may make pre-approved contributions or efforts to improve City
facilities. Those pre-approved user groups may be eligible for fee waivers as
provided in Section C below.
   C.   Capital Improvements Funded By User Groups:
      1.   User groups are encouraged to consider funding capital improvement
projects that improve public spaces and serve the needs of the community as
well as other user groups. A capital improvement project must be submitted to
the Recreation Department for review and comment, and then will be submitted to
the Parks and Recreation Commission for a recommendation based upon
desirability and sustainability. No capital improvements shall be made by any
user group without prior City approval.
      2.   The City offers user groups, who make such preapproved capital
improvements, the opportunity for fee waivers. The amount of any fee waiver
shall not exceed pre-approved eligible expenses for capital improvements.
Eligible expenses shall be defined by the City Manager, or their designee, for
each project. There is no guarantee that 100% of a project’s costs will be
waived. An annual cap of fee waivers may be implemented by the City Manager, or
their designee.
      3.   No expenses shall be eligible for a fee waiver without appropriate
documentation. All such documentation must be submitted within a year of
project completion to the Recreation Department. All expenses must be reviewed
by the Parks and Recreation Commission and approved by the City Manager, or
their designee.
      4.   If a User Group wishes to appeal the decision of the City Manager,
the City Manager shall submit this request to the City Council for
consideration. The decision of the City Council shall then be final. (Ord. 23-
O-63, 12-19-2023)
6.2.4: REQUIRED POLICE SUPERVISION:
   A.   Determination By Size: No organization sponsoring a picnic at which the
anticipated or expected attendance is in excess of one hundred fifty (150)
shall be granted a permit unless, at the time application for the picnic permit
is made, arrangements have been made for the supervision of such picnic by off
duty police officers. For each anticipated three hundred fifty (350) persons,
or part thereof, in excess of one hundred fifty (150) persons, provisions shall
be made for supervision by one off duty police officer. All expenses attendant
to the supervision by off duty police officers shall be borne by the sponsoring
organization and shall be paid in advance.
   B.   Possible Exclusion: This requirement shall not apply to organizations
whose entire attendance at a picnic, excluding supervisory personnel, is
limited to children not older than twelfth grade school age, unless, in the
opinion of the Chief of Police, such police supervision is necessary.
   C.   Approval: Arrangements for off duty police officers shall be subject to
the approval of the Chief of Police. (Ord. 1914, 5-21-1985)
6.2.5: HOURS FOR CITY PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, PUBLIC FACILITIES AND PUBLIC GROUNDS:
   A.   Emricson Park: It shall be unlawful for any person to be present in
Emricson Park between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. or not more than
fifteen (15) minutes following the completion of a City approved recreational
activity (whichever is later) and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord. 05-O-109, 11-
1-2005)
   B.   Sesquicentennial Park And Park In The Square: It shall be unlawful for
any person to remain in Sesquicentennial Park or Park in the Square between the
hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. or not more than fifteen (15) minutes
following the completion of a City approved recreational activity (whichever is
later) and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Pedestrian traffic is allowed during
prohibited hours provided that pedestrians traverse the park without stopping
or loitering. (Ord. 15-O-55, 9-15-2015)
   C.   Public Facilities And Public Grounds: In addition to any prescribed
hours for any public park, it shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or use
any individual public facilities (including those within City parks or
playgrounds and on public grounds) or public grounds (outside of City parks) in
excess of four (4) hours in any twenty four-hour period unless such use or
occupancy is associated with a City authorized event or program.
   D.   All Other: Unless otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter,
it shall be unlawful for any person to be present in or on any park,
playground, public facility and public grounds within the City between dusk and
dawn or not more than fifteen (15) minutes following the completion of a City-
approved activity (whichever is later) and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord. 17-O-
90, 10-17-2017)
6.2.6: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person using any parks, playgrounds, public
facilities and public grounds within the City to either perform or permit to be
performed any of the following acts: (Ord. 17-O-90, 10-17-2017)
   A.   Vandalism: Wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, or
displace or remove any buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces,
railings, paving or paving material, water lines or other public utilities or
parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards, whether temporary
or permanent, monuments, stakes, posts or other boundary markers or other
structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal.
   B.   Pollution Of Waters: Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be
placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay or other body of
water, in the City park or any tributary, stream, storm drain or drain flowing
into such waters, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which would
or may result in the pollution of said waters.
   C.   Dumping Refuse Or Trash: Bring in or dump, deposit or leave any empty
bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage
or refuse or other trash. No refuse or trash of any kind, nature or description
shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any park or left anywhere on
the grounds thereof but shall be placed in proper receptacles where these are
provided. Where receptacles are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste
shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence
and properly disposed of elsewhere.
   D.   Endangerment: Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct.
   E.   Assault, Battery Or Fighting: Commit any assault, battery or engage in
any fighting.
   F.   Interference: Prevent any person from using any park or any of its
facilities or interfere with such use in compliance with this chapter and the
rules applicable thereto.
   G.   Swimming Or Bathing: Swim, bathe or wade in any waters in or adjacent
to any park except in such waters and at such places as are provided therefor
and in compliance with such regulations as are adopted with respect to such
use.
   H.   Dressing Or Undressing: Dress or undress except in bathing houses or
structures as may be provided for that purpose.
   I.   Activity Areas: Engage in flying model airplanes, golf practice, ice
skating and picnics except at locations specifically designated for such
activities by the Director of Public Works. (Ord. 1096, 7-2-1974)
   J.   Vehicles In Parks:
      1.   Drive or park any motor vehicles except on a street, driveway, or
parking lot in any park or to park and/or leave any such vehicle in any place
other than one established for public parking.
Drive, park, or otherwise operate a motorized vehicle of any type on any
recreational path whether paved or unpaved in any park. This prohibition of the
operation of motorized vehicles on a recreation path shall not apply to
vehicles and equipment owned by the City or authorized by the City, when being
used for the maintenance of park lands and facilities. (Ord. 02-O-97, 11-5-
2002)
      2.   It shall be unlawful to operate any unregistered or unlicensed
vehicle at any time in any City park.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person not holding a valid driver's
license to operate any vehicle at any time in any portion of a City park.
      4.   No vehicle which has an overall length of more than twenty feet
(20') or an average width of more than eight feet (8') shall be parked in any
parking lot in a City park.
      5.   No vehicle shall be parked so that it occupies more than one
designated parking space.
      6.   No vehicle shall be parked or left unattended in any City park after
the stated time of closing.
      7.   Use of all driveways, roadways, and parking areas by vehicles in
excess of eight thousand (8,000) pounds' GVW in all City parks is hereby
prohibited, without special permission from the City Manager.
      8.   Operation of any snowmobile in any Municipally owned park within the
City at any time.
      9.   Operation of any motorized off road vehicle in any Municipally owned
park within the City at any time. This prohibition of the operation of
motorized off road vehicles shall not apply to vehicles and equipment owned by
the City or authorized by the City, when used for the maintenance of park lands
and facilities.
   K.   Dangerous Animals: Bring any dangerous animal into the City park, and
it shall be unlawful to permit any dog to be in the City park unless on a leash
not more than six feet (6') in length.
   L.   Peddling: To vend, sell, peddle or offer for sale any commodity or
article within any park, unless specifically authorized to do so by the City
Council.
   M.   Smoking: To smoke, burn or use any cigarette, cigar, or other form of
or device containing tobacco or to use any "alternative nicotine product" (as
defined in subsection
4.9.4A of this Code).
   N.   Consumption Of Food/Beverages: Handle, possess or consume food or
beverages inside the pool area.
   O.   Post Signs: Post, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, placard,
advertisement or inscription whatever or to cause to be erected any sign
whatever on any public lands or highways or roads adjacent to or within any
City park.
   P.   Alcohol: Consume or possess any alcoholic beverage at any time without
a proper permit or unless specifically authorized by the Local Liquor
Commissioner for City permitted special events and other City authorized events
pursuant to Title 3, Chapter 3, Section 14(C)(1) of the City’s Code. The
Commissioner may limit any such authorization to beer and/or wine only.
   Q.   Davis Road Park: It shall be unlawful to permit any animal to be within
the confines of Davis Road Park.
   R.   Illegal Drug Or Substance: To possess or use any illegal drug or
substance as defined by this Code or the Illinois Criminal Code.
   S.   Drone Use: To use or fly a drone without first obtaining City staff
approval from the City Manager's Office.
   T.   Posted Notice: Where posted notice has been given that such activity is
not permitted, no person shall walk, stand, sit (including upon a chair of any
sort) or lie upon the grass or surface in or on any park, playground, public
facility or public grounds. Notwithstanding the notice requirements of this
subsection T, no posted notice of prohibition shall be required for areas that
are by their nature not designed for walking, standing, sitting or lying by the
public such as flower, garden or other planted beds, restored natural or grassy
areas, wetlands and similar grounds. In addition, the City Manager or designee
may order a prohibition on access to any part of any park, playground, public
facility or public grounds, without posted notice, when they conclude that the
public health, safety and welfare require such prohibition (such as, for
example, for landscaping, cleaning or repairs) provided however that this
prohibition shall first be communicated verbally to any affected person and
that such person shall be provided a reasonable opportunity to remove
themselves from that area.
   U.   Park In The Square: Additional prohibitions applying to the Park in the
Square are codified in section
6.2B.2 of this chapter. (Ord. 1096, 7-2-1974; ; amd. 1986 Code; Ord. 2072, 11-
3-1987, eff. 1-1-1988; Ord. 2508, 10-4-1994; Ord. 99-O-48, 8-17-1999; Ord. 06-
O-81, 11-7-2006, eff. 1-1-2007; Ord. 16-O-26, 4-5-2016; Ord. 17-O-90, 10-17-
2017; Ord. 21-O-10, 2-2-2021; Ord. 23-O-62, 12-19-2023)
6.2.7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates or neglects to comply with any provision of
this chapter, as well as any provisions of articles A, B and C of this chapter,
shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) in addition to any additional penalties
prescribed in articles A, B, and C of this chapter. (Ord. 17-O-73, 9-5-2017)
   B.   In addition to the monetary penalty, any person who violates the
provisions identified in subsection C of this section shall be prohibited from
access to or use of any park, playground, public facility or public grounds in
the City of Woodstock for:
      1.   Two (2) weeks for the first conviction.
      2.   One month for the second conviction.
      3.   Six (6) months for the third conviction.
   C.   Violations subject to subsection B of this section access and use
prohibitions:
      1.   Subsection
6.2.5C of this chapter (time limitations for occupancy or use of public
facilities or public grounds).
      2.   Subsection
6.2.6P of this chapter (consumption and possession of alcohol in any park,
playground, public facility or public grounds).
      3.   Subsection
6.2.6R of this chapter (consumption and possession of illegal drugs or other
illegal substances in any park, playground, public facility or public grounds).
      4.   Subsection
6.2.6T of this chapter (walking, standing, sitting or lying in or on any
prohibited part of any park, playground, public facility or public grounds).
      5.   Subsection
6.2B.2D of this chapter (smoking and tobacco use in the Park in the Square).
   D.   Notice of said prohibition shall be provided to the violator by
personal service. (Ord. 17-O-90, 10-17-2017)
ARTICLE A. CITY BANDSTAND
SECTION:
6.2A.1: Management
6.2A.2: Reserved Use Restrictions
6.2A.3: Application For Use
6.2A.4: Issuance Of Permit, Insurance Requirements
6.2A.5: Rules And Regulations
6.2A.6: Record Of Dates Kept
6.2A.7: Penalty
6.2A.1: MANAGEMENT:
The general management and direction of the community bandstand located in the
Woodstock Park in the Square and its use shall be vested in the City Manager.
(Ord. 1045, 10-23-1973; amd. 1986 Code)
6.2A.2: RESERVED USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The reserved use of the bandstand shall be restricted to the City and
organizations recognized by general ordinance or resolution of the City
Council.
   B.   The bandstand may be used by other "recognized organizations".
"Recognized organizations" as mentioned herein, shall include the following:
      1.   Fraternal Organizations: Moose, Elks, Knights of Columbus, Lions,
Rotary, Kiwanis, Odd Fellows, etc.
      2.   Religious: All organizations, clubs, groups, study groups and the
like organized and/or sponsored by an existing parish or religious congregation
in the City.
      3.   Business Organizations: Chamber of Commerce, Business and
Professional Women's Club, etc.
      4.   Educational Organizations: Any club or group of students organized
and existing pursuant to the rules and regulations of an established school
district.
      5.   Veterans' Organizations: Veterans' organizations.
      6.   Charitable Organizations: Charitable organizations.
      7.   Others: Others as deemed appropriate by the director of the opera
house or the City Manager. (Ord. 1045, 10-23-1973; amd. 1986 Code)
6.2A.3: APPLICATION FOR USE:
   A.   Requests for use may be directed to the office of the director of the
opera house. If deemed necessary, a written application and assurances may be
required. Requests for use of the bandstand shall be made not less than seven
(7) days prior to the date of the proposed use. Although not automatic,
permission to use the bandstand shall not be withheld unreasonably.
   B.   In the event there is a question as to the propriety of the use or the
propriety of the person, group or organization as to its eligibility for use,
the applicant shall be so advised and the request for use shall then be placed
upon the next available agenda of the City Council for action.
   C.   The City Manager shall, upon submitting a written request for the use
of the bandstand to the City Council, circulate copies of the request to each
member of the City Council with their regular agenda lists together with any
additional remarks regarding the reasons that the application is on the
Council's agenda, the basis of the Manager's questions, and general
recommendations as to the disposition of the request. Copies of the Manager's
remarks shall be distributed to the applicant as well.
   D.   Upon the submission to the City Council by the City Manager of a
question regarding the request for use of the bandstand, the Council shall
either approve or reject the application upon the face of the application and
the Manager's remarks. The City Council may, upon motion of any Council member,
suspend its rules and the operation of these rules and permit debate on the
issue of the request or barring the applicant. The submission of the request to
the City Council shall not automatically entitle any person to debate the
question before the Council. (Ord. 1045, 10-23-1973; amd. 1986 Code)
6.2A.4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT, INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
No solely private group, club, corporation or organization shall be
automatically permitted the use of the bandstand upon the submission of an
application. A private person or corporation may, upon making a proper request
and upon submitting in addition thereto a request to be declared a recognized
organization for the date or dates requested, be given permission to use the
bandstand.
Any private group, corporation or organization shall submit a certificate of
public liability insurance with limits of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) per person and three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per
occurrence for bodily injury and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for
property damage inuring to the benefit of the City and with the City an
additional insured thereunder. A certificate of insurance for the date or dates
upon which the private organization wishes to use the bandstand shall accompany
the application. (Ord. 1045, 10-23-1973; amd. 1986 Code)
6.2A.5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
All permits hereafter issued shall be subject to such reasonable regulations
regarding the emission of noise from the bandstand as may be imposed from time
to time by the City Manager or designee. The determination of the City Manager
or designee as to the reasonableness of any noise shall be binding upon the
applicant for the use of the bandstand. (Ord. 1045, 10-23-1973; amd. 1986 Code)
6.2A.6: RECORD OF DATES KEPT:
The city manager or designee shall keep a record or calendar of dates for the
use of the bandstand and shall keep such dates available for public inspection.
(Ord. 1045, 10-23-1973; amd. 1986 Code)
6.2A.7: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be penalized in
accordance with section
6.2.7 of this chapter. (Ord. 16-O-26, 4-5-2016)
ARTICLE B. PUBLIC SQUARE
SECTION:
6.2B.1: Definitions
6.2B.2: Additional Prohibited Activities
6.2B.3: Penalties
6.2B.1: DEFINITIONS:
   ADJACENT SIDEWALKS: The public sidewalks within the right-of-way of the
following street locations:
      Benton Street: From Van Buren to Church
      Cass Street: From Throop to Benton
      Dean Street: From Van Buren to Calhoun
      Jackson Street: From Benton to Jefferson
      Jackson Street: From Throop to Johnson
      Johnson Street: From Cass to Calhoun
      Judd Street: From Jefferson to Benton
      Main Street: From Church to Cass
      Van Buren Street: From Johnson to Benton
   PARK IN THE SQUARE: That public park located in the City of Woodstock in the
square area bounded by Cass Street, Johnson Street, Van Buren Street and Benton
Street. (Ord. 1365, 4-20-1977; amd. Ord. 08-O-53, 9-16-2008)
6.2B.2: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
In addition to the prohibited activities contained in section
6.2.6 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of
the following activities in the Park in the Square:
   A.   Playing ball, riding skateboards, riding bicycles, serving or gliding
frisbees or other similar sailing or gliding devices.
   B.   For any group of persons to congregate in the Park in the Square in
such a manner that free access along paved walkways in the park or adjacent
sidewalks is restricted, prohibited or blocked.
   C.   To ride any bicycle, skateboard or other devices on any paved walkways
in the Park in the Square or adjacent sidewalk to the Park in the Square.
   D.   To smoke, burn or use any cigarette, cigar, or other form of or device
containing tobacco or to use any "alternative nicotine product" (as defined in
subsection
4.9.4A of this Code). (Ord. 16-O-26, 4-5-2016)
6.2B.3: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be penalized in
accordance with section
6.2.7 of this chapter. (Ord. 16-O-26, 4-5-2016; amd. Ord. 16-O-60, 10-4-2016)
ARTICLE C. TRAIN DEPOT
SECTION:
6.2C.1: Train Depot Defined
6.2C.2: Use Of The Train Depot
6.2C.3: Prohibited Acts
6.2C.4: Penalties
6.2C.1: TRAIN DEPOT DEFINED:
The Train Depot refers to the building located on or about 90 Church Street, in
the City, which is owned by the Union Pacific Railroad and is leased to the
City. The City, with the permission of the Union Pacific Railroad may sublet
all or part of the Train Depot to private third parties. (Ord. 17-O-73, 9-5-
2017)
6.2C.2: USE OF THE TRAIN DEPOT:
   A.   At any time that the Train Depot is not fully or partially subject to a
lease with a third party, then the un-sublet part of the Train Depot building
shall be open only to those members of the public who are using it for a
reasonable period before departing on and after arriving from any commuter
trains or from any public buses that make stops at the Train Depot. The hours
of operation shall be established by the City Manager.
   B.   At any time that any part of the Train Depot has been sublet by the
City to a third party, in addition to the provisions of section
 6.2C.3 of this article and subject to the terms of such sublet, the third
party shall have control of the use of that part of the Train Depot, of its
hours of operation, of whether or not to restrict access to all or part of the
property to its customers and of any additional rules of conduct for
individuals within the sublet part of the Train Depot. (Ord. 17-O-73, 9-5-2017)
6.2C.3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
At all times, whether the Train Depot has been sublet or not, it shall be
unlawful for any person using the Train Depot to either perform or permit to be
performed any of the following acts:
   A.   Vandalism: Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, or
displace or remove any part of the Train Depot building or parts of the
building, equipment, furniture, signage, decorative items or any personal
property within the Train Depot all of which may be, but are not limited to
tables, benches, railings, entranceways, water lines or other public utilities
or parts or appurtenances thereof, restrooms, signs, notices or placards,
whether temporary or permanent, equipment, facilities or other property or
appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal.
   B.   Dumping Refuse Or Trash: Bring in or dump, deposit or leave any empty
bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste,
garbage, refuse or other trash unless directly associated with the operations
of the Train Depot. Any permitted refuse shall be placed in proper receptacles
where these are provided. Where receptacles are not so provided, all such
refuse or trash shall be carried away from the Train Depot by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere.
   C.   Endangerment: Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or
engage in any disorderly conduct.
   D.   Assault, Battery Or Fighting: Commit any assault, battery or engage in
any fighting.
   E.   Interference: Prevent or interfere with any person using the Train
Depot for the purposes authorized in section
6.2C.2 of this article.
   F.   Dangerous Animals: Bring any animal into the Train Depot except
authorized therapy animals.
   G.   Peddling: To vend, sell, peddle or offer for sale any commodity or
article within the Train Depot, unless specifically authorized to do so by the
City Council.
   H.   Smoking: To smoke, burn or use any cigarette, cigar, or other form of
or device containing tobacco or to use any "alternative nicotine product" (as
defined in subsection
4.9.4A of this Code).
   I.   Post Signs: Post, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, placard,
advertisement or inscription whatever or to cause to be erected any sign
whatever (unless authorized by the subtenant in possession of the Train Depot
or at the request to the City by the Union Pacific, METRA, PACE or other
transportation authorities for transportation-related communications).
   J.   Alcohol: Consume or possess any alcoholic beverage at any time.
   K.   Illegal Drug Or Substance: To possess or use any illegal drug or
substance as defined by this Code or the Illinois Criminal Code.
   L.   Sanitary Violations: To urinate or defecate in any portion of the
building not specifically intended for such use. (Ord. 17-O-73, 9-5-2017)
6.2C.4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates or neglects to comply with any provision of
this article, shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   B.   In addition to the monetary penalty, any person who violates the
provisions of:
      1.   Subsection
 6.2C.3H of this article related to smoking and tobacco use in the Train Depot;
      2.   Subsection
6.2C.3J of this article related to consumption and possession of alcohol in the
Train Depot;
      3.   Subsection
6.2C.3K of this article related to consumption and possession of illegal drugs
or other illegal substances in the Train Depot;
      4.   Subsection
6.2C.3L of this article related to sanitary violations involving urination or
defecation;
shall be prohibited from access to the Train Depot for:
      1.   Two (2) weeks for the first conviction;
      2.   One month for the second conviction; and
      3.   Six (6) months for the third conviction.
Notice of said prohibition shall be provided to the violator by personal
service. (Ord. 17-O-73, 9-5-2017)
CHAPTER 3
PREVAILING WAGE RATES
SECTION:
6.3.1: Wage Rates On Public Works Projects
6.3.1: WAGE RATES ON PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS:
To the extent and as required by "an act regulating wages of laborers,
mechanics and other workers employed in any public works by the state, county,
city or any public body or any political subdivision or by anyone under
contract for public works", approved June 26, 1941, as amended 1 , the general
prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics, and other
workers engaged in the construction of public works coming under the
jurisdiction of the city is hereby ascertained to be the same as the prevailing
rate of wages for construction work in the McHenry County area as determined by
the department of labor of the state of Illinois as of June of the current year
a copy of that determination being on file in the office of the city clerk and
incorporated herein by reference. As required by said act, any and all
revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by the department of labor of the
state of Illinois shall supersede the department's June determination and apply
to any and all public works construction undertaken by the city. The definition
of any terms appearing in this chapter which are also used in aforesaid act
shall be the same as in said act.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general prevailing
rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except public
works construction of the city to the extent required by the aforesaid act.
The city clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by any
interested party in the main office of the city this determination or any
revisions of such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this determination or of
the current revised determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect
shall be attached to all contract specifications.
The city clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any employer, and to
any association of employers and to any person or association of employees who
have filed their names and addresses, requesting copies of any determination
stating the particular rates and the particular class of workers whose wages
will be affected by such rates.
The city clerk shall promptly file a certified copy of this section with both
the secretary of state index division and the department of labor of the state
of Illinois. (Ord. 2296, 6-4-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL WATER, SEWER, TOTE AND SANITARY FACILITIES
ARTICLE A. WATER SERVICE
SECTION:
6.4A.1: Definitions
6.4A.2: Plumbing Requirements
6.4A.3: Water Mains
6.4A.4: Connections With Water Mains
6.4A.5: Installation Of Service Pipes
6.4A.6: Repairs To Pipes
6.4A.7: Shutoff Boxes
6.4A.8: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
6.4A.9: Liability Of City
6.4A.10: Penalties
6.4A.1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this article shall be as follows:
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   PREMISES: Any building, structure, part of a building, or parcel of land.
   SHALL, MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
   SHUTOFF BOX OR SERVICE BOX: A valve located on the water service line which
can be used to shut off the flow of potable water between the main and the
premises being served.
   WATER MAIN: A pipe owned by and maintained by the city of Woodstock for the
purposes of distributing potable water to serve, or is accessible to, more than
one property, dwelling, or premises and is exterior to buildings.
   WATER MASTER PLAN: The most recent publication of the city of Woodstock's
water master plan, providing an assessment and summary of the city's water
systems and including recommendations for the construction of future
improvements.
   WATER SERVICE LINE, SERVICE PIPE: That line connected to the water main,
including the fittings at the point of the connection, which delivers potable
water to the user's facilities, property, or premises. (Ord. 99-0-57, 10-19-
1999)
6.4A.2: PLUMBING REQUIREMENTS:
No water shall be turned on for service for premises where the plumbing does
not comply with the city regulations. (Ord. 99-0-57, 10-19-1999)
6.4A.3: WATER MAINS:
   A.   Water mains shall be constructed of ductile iron of a minimum internal
diameter of six inches (6"), or the minimum size designated with the water
master plan if greater than six inches (6").
   B.   Water mains installed in the city shall comply with the requirements of
the subdivision and platting ordinance of the city and shall include all
performance and maintenance warranties.
   C.   The extension or installation of any water main in the city shall be
preceded by the submission of plans prepared and sealed by a professional
engineer. Said plans shall be approved by the city prior to the extension or
installation of any water main.
   D.   All water main extensions shall be installed across the entire width of
the lot or lots to be served and shall include connection to the closest
existing water main to complete a loop, when directed by the city engineer.
   E.   The cost of plans, specifications, engineering services and
construction of water mains specified in this section shall be borne by the
property owners or other person causing the installation to be made. (Ord. 99-
0-57, 10-19-1999)
6.4A.4: CONNECTIONS WITH WATER MAINS:
   A.   Requirements: No connection with a water main shall be made until the
requirements set forth herein have been met:
      1.   Application is made by the owner of the real estate involved, or his
duly authorized agent, for a permit, such application to be made with the city
engineer, and such permit is issued by the city engineer.
      2.   No less than twenty four (24) hours (excluding weekends and
holidays) prior to the connection, notice, either in writing or verbal, is
given of such connection to the city engineer.
      3.   The connection is made under the supervision, at the site thereof,
of the director of public works, or his duly authorized agent, and the
connection is covered only after such connection has been inspected by the
director of public works or his duly authorized agent.
      4.   Payment, or evidence of payment, is made of any liens, encumbrances
or special assessments impressed or levied against the real estate involved for
the cost of water mains serving the property which are recorded in the office
of the city clerk and McHenry County recorder of deeds.
   B.   Fees: No connection with a water main shall be made until the fees set
forth in article D of this chapter have been paid. (Ord. 99-0-57, 10-19-1999)
6.4A.5: INSTALLATION OF SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Service pipes from the water main to the premises to be served shall be
installed by and at the cost of the property owner involved or the applicant
for the service. Such installation shall be under the supervision of the
director of public works. After installation of the service pipe, the
responsibility of maintaining the service pipe to the water main shall be the
responsibility of the property owner. (Ord. 06-0-22, 3-21-2006, eff. 5-1-2006)
   B.   No service pipe shall be installed unless it conforms to specifications
drawn up by the city engineer, a copy of which specifications shall be kept on
file by the City Engineer and shall be open to inspection by any person
interested.
   C.   Each property served by the Municipal water supply must have a separate
water service. Such service shall be located on property owned by the water
customer, or within a recorded easement.
   D.   All excavations for water service pipes shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Director of Public
Works, at the expense of the owner. (Ord. 99-O-57, 10-19-1999)
6.4A.6: REPAIRS TO PIPES:
Repairs of damages, including, but not limited to, leaks, to service pipes from
the water main to the premises and plumbing systems, shall be made as follows:
(Ord. 99-O-57, 10-19-1999)
   A.   Owner Responsible For Cost: Repairs to service pipes, from the water
main to the premises served, and plumbing systems of buildings shall be made by
and at the expense of the property owner of the premises served. (Ord. 06-O-22,
3-21-2006, eff. 5-1-2006)
   B.   Repairs: (Rep. by Ord. 18-O-52, 10-2-2018)
   C.   Emergency: In case of emergency whereby a service pipe is damaged, the
City may immediately go on the premises, without notice to the owner or user
thereof, and repair such pipe. An emergency exists when there is an immediate
threat of substantial property damage, or an immediate threat to the public
health, safety and welfare. The decision as to the existence of an emergency
shall be made by the Director of Public Works or the City Manager, who shall
certify in writing thereto, such certification to be filed in the records of
the Director of Public Works. The cost of such repair shall be repaid to the
City by the owner or user, or both, of the premises served. Collection of such
cost shall be made and enforced in the manner described in article D of this
chapter. (Ord. 99-O-57, 10-19-1999)
   D.   Service Pipe Repairs: Whenever suspected or actual damage, including,
but not limited to, leaks, to a service pipe exists, and such damage is not
certified to constitute an emergency, the City shall notify the owner to have
the damage repaired at the owner's expense. Such repairs must be completed by
the owner within five (5) business days of the date of the notice. In the event
that repairs are not completed within five (5) business days of the date of
notice, the City may either turn off water to the property involved until
repairs are made or perform such repairs and charge all costs and expenses
related thereto to the property owner. In the event water is turned off to the
property involved, the building shall be red tagged as "unfit for human
occupancy" and the property owner shall be responsible for the City's cost of
termination and a fifty dollar ($50.00) reinstatement fee when the water is
turned on. (Ord. 06-O-22, 3-21-2006, eff. 5-1-2006)
6.4A.7: SHUTOFF BOXES:
   A.   Shutoff boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every service pipe,
and shall be located between the curb line and the front sidewalk line where
this is practicable. Shutoff boxes or service boxes may not be located within
sidewalks, driveways or other paved areas within the right-of-way. Such boxes
shall be so located that they are easily accessible and shall be protected from
frost. All shutoff boxes shall be in good working order. (Ord. 99-O-57, 10-19-
1999; amd. Ord. 18-O-52, 10-2-2018)
   B.   Water service pipes connected to multi-tenant buildings must include a
shutoff box on the primary service pipe and must include an additional shutoff
box for the service to each tenant space. All shutoff boxes for multi-tenant
buildings must be accessible by the City, from the exterior of the building.
(Ord. 99-O-57, 10-19-1999)
6.4A.8: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Resale Of Water: No water shall be resold or distributed by the
recipient to any premises other than that for which application has been made
and the meter installed, except in the case of an emergency.
   B.   Tampering: No person, not authorized by the City Council, shall tamper
with, alter or injure any part of the City waterworks or supply system, or with
any meter. (Ord. 99-O-57, 10-19-1999)
   C.   Service Pipe: Unless authorized by the City, no person shall be
permitted to turn water on or off at the service pipe. (Ord. 06-O-22, 3-21-
2006, eff. 5-1-2006)
6.4A.9: LIABILITY OF CITY:
The City shall not be liable for any damage caused by a leak or break in any
service pipe, or for damage caused by the repair or installation of such pipes
when such work is not done by the City, nor shall the City be liable for any
damage caused by a failure to repair any leak or break in any service pipe.
(Ord. 99-O-57, 10-19-1999)
6.4A.10: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any portion of this article, once a
restriction/prohibition has been put into place, shall be fined in accordance
with section
1.4.1 of this Code for each offense plus the City's cost of prosecution
including, but not limited to, its attorney fees. Each day that a violation
continues or persists shall be deemed a separate offense. At the discretion of
the City Manager or his/her designee, the City may initiate adjudication
procedures in accordance with title 1, chapter 7, article L of this Code to
settle contested matter(s), to achieve compliance with this article, assess
penalties and fines, and collect outstanding obligations. In addition, the City
reserves the right to discontinue water service to any premises until the
violation is corrected. (Ord. 10-O-21, 4-20-2010)
ARTICLE B. SEWER USE AND PRETREATMENT
SECTION:
General Provisions
6.4B.1.1: Enactment
6.4B.1.2: Purpose And Policy
6.4B.1.3: Administration
6.4B.1.4: Jurisdiction
6.4B.1.5: Abbreviations
6.4B.1.6: Definitions
6.4B.2: Sewer Extension Requirements
6.4B.2.1: Applicability
6.4B.2.2: Sewer Extension Requirements
6.4B.3: Sewer Connection Procedures
6.4B.3.1: Use Of Public Sewers Required
6.4B.3.2: Private Sewage Disposal
6.4B.3.3: Building Sewer And Connections
6.4B.3.4: Fees
6.4B.3.5: Use Of Public Sewers
6.4B.3.6: Monitoring Facilities
6.4B.3.7: Additional Structures Required For The Use Of The Public Sewers
6.4B.3.8: Food Service Establishments
6.4B.3.9: Sewer Line Maintenance/Replacement
6.4B.3.10: Automobile Service, Repair And Fuel Dispensing Properties
6.4B.3.11: Amalgam Management At Dental Offices
6.4B.4: Information Required Of Non-Residential Users
6.4B.4.1: Industrial User Survey
6.4B.4.2: Affirmation To Survey
6.4B.4.3: Reports Of Changed Conditions
6.4B.4.4: Additional Survey Information
6.4B.5: General Discharge Requirements
6.4B.5.1: Applicability
6.4B.5.2: Prohibited Discharge Standards
6.4B.5.3: National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
6.4B.5.4: State Limits
6.4B.5.5: Local Limits
6.4B.5.6: Right Of Revision
6.4B.5.7: Monitoring Facilities
6.4B.5.8: Monitoring Requirements
6.4B.5.9: Analytical Requirements
6.4B.5.10: Protection Of City Sampling And Flow Metering Equipment From Damage
6.4B.6: General Discharge Compliance
6.4B.6.1: Applicability
6.4B.6.2: Pretreatment Facilities
6.4B.6.3: Additional Pretreatment Measures
6.4B.6.4: Best Management Practices (BMP) Plan
6.4B.6.5: Accidental Discharge And Slug Control Plan
6.4B.6.6: Closure Plan
6.4B.7: Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirements And Application
6.4B.7.1: Wastewater Information And Analysis
6.4B.7.2: Wastewater Discharge Permit Authority And Requirements
6.4B.7.3: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permitting: Existing
Connections
6.4B.7.4: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permitting: New
Connections
6.4B.7.5: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Application
Contents
6.4B.7.6: Individual And General Application Signatories And Certification
6.4B.7.7: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Decisions
6.4B.7.8: Intermittent Discharges And Clean-Ups
6.4B.8: Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance Process
6.4B.8.1: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Duration
6.4B.8.2: Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents
6.4B.8.3: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Appeals
6.4B.8.4: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Modification
6.4B.8.5: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer
6.4B.8.6: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Revocation
6.4B.8.7: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Re-Issuance
6.4B.8.8: Regulation Of Waste Received From Other Jurisdictions
6.4B.9: Reporting Requirements
6.4B.9.1: General Reporting Requirements
6.4B.9.2: Pretreatment Requirements For Non-Residential Users
6.4B.9.3: Additional Pretreatment Requirements For Categorical Industrial Users
6.4B.9.4: Periodic Compliance Reports/Self-Monitoring Reports
6.4B.9.5: Reports From Non-Permitted Users
6.4B.9.6: Authorized Representative Change Notification
6.4B.9.7: Reports Of Changed Conditions
6.4B.9.8: Reports Of Potential Problems
6.4B.9.9: Notice Of Violation/Repeat Sampling And Reporting
6.4B.9.10: Notification Of The Discharge Of Hazardous Waste
6.4B.9.11: Report Submittal Due Dates
6.4B.10: Compliance Monitoring
6.4B.10.1: Right Of Entry: Inspection And Sampling
6.4B.10.2: Record Keeping
6.4B.10.3: Search Warrants
6.4B.11: Confidential Information
6.4B.12: Publication Of Users In Significant Noncompliance
6.4B.13: Administrative Enforcement Remedies
6.4B.13.1: Notification Of Violation
6.4B.13.2: Compliance Agreements
6.4B.13.3: Show Cause Order
6.4B.13.4: Compliance Orders
6.4B.13.5: Cease And Desist Orders
6.4B.13.6: Emergency Suspensions
6.4B.13.7: Termination Of Discharge
6.4B.14: Penalties And Judicial Enforcement Remedies
6.4B.14.1: Recovery Of Costs Incurred
6.4B.14.2: Injunctive Relief
6.4B.14.3: Civil Penalties
6.4B.14.4: Remedies Nonexclusive
6.4B.15: Supplemental Enforcement Action
6.4B.15.1: Failure To Report Or Notify
6.4B.15.2: Performance Bonds
6.4B.15.3: Liability Insurance
6.4B.15.4: Payment For Outstanding Fees, Fines, And Penalties
6.4B.15.5: Water Supply Severance
6.4B.15.6: Public Nuisances
6.4B.15.7: Contractor Listing
6.4B.16: Affirmative Defenses To Discharge Violations
6.4B.16.1: Upset
6.4B.16.2: Prohibited Discharge Standards
6.4B.16.3: Bypass
6.4B.17: Miscellaneous Fees
6.4B.17.1: Fee Schedule
6.4B.17.2: Pretreatment Program Funding
6.4B.17.3: Pretreatment Charges And Fees
6.4B.17.4: Additional Remedies
6.4B.18: Miscellaneous Provisions
6.4B.18.1: Severability
6.4B.18.2: Conflict
6.4B.18.3: Offenses Under Previous Ordinances
6.4B.19: Effective Date
6.4B.1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
6.4B.1.1: ENACTMENT:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Federal Clean Water Act and regulations
promulgated thereunder, the Illinois Environmental Protection Act of 1970, as
amended, and in accordance with Illinois Municipal Code, this chapter, hereby
known as Sewer Use and Pretreatment Ordinance, is enacted by the City Council
of the City of Woodstock. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.1.2: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the Publicly-Owned
Treatment Works (POTW) for the City of Woodstock, hereafter referred to
interchangeably as the City. This chapter provides for the use of public and
private sewers and drains, private sewage disposal, and authorizes the
installation and continuing of connections into the sewage works of the City
upon certain conditions, including permission thereof; providing for the
installation and maintenance of such connections and enforcements thereto;
regulating the use of municipal and private sewers and drains; individual
wastewater disposal, the installation, connection and disconnection of building
sewers, the discharge of water and waste in the public sewer system providing
for penalties for violation therefore; and providing for penalties for
violation thereof; and providing for termination of permits issued by the City
pursuant to the provisions hereof. This chapter enables the City to comply with
all applicable state and Federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 United
States Code § 1251 et seq.) and General Pretreatment Regulations of 40 CFR Part
403. Additional objectives of this chapter are:
   A.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with its operation;
   B.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will pass
through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be
incompatible with the POTW;
   C.   To protect both POTW personnel who may be affected by air, wastewater
and biosolids in the course of their employment and the general public;
   D.   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and biosolids
from the POTW;
   E.   To enable the City to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit conditions, biosolids use and disposal requirements,
and any other Federal or state laws to which the POTW is subject;
   F.   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the POTW;
   G.   To provide uniform requirements for food service establishments for the
control of grease discharge to the sanitary sewer system; and
   H.   To regulate private wastewater disposal systems. This chapter shall
apply to all users of the POTW and provides for the enforcement of general
requirements for users. The ordinance authorizes the issuance of wastewater
connection and discharge permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and
enforcement activities; establishes administrative review procedures; requires
user reporting; and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the programs established herein. The
ordinance authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits that do not
allow the discharge of defined process waste streams but continue to allow the
discharge of domestic or sanitary wastewater. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.1.3: ADMINISTRATION:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Pretreatment Coordinator and/or duly
authorized agent(s) shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Pretreatment
Coordinator and/or duly authorized agent(s) may be delegated by the City or
Pretreatment Coordinator to other City personnel or other duly authorized agent
(s) of the City.
It shall be the duty of employees of the police, building, engineering, fire,
street, and water departments to give vigilant aid to the Department of Public
Works in the enforcement of this chapter and to this end they shall report all
violations thereof, which come to their knowledge, to the Director of Public
Works (DPW). (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.1.4: JURISDICTION:
This section shall apply within the City and to persons outside the City who
are, by contract or agreement with the City, users of the City POTW. Contract
and agreement provisions are provided in Section 6.4B.8.8. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-
2024)
6.4B.1.5: ABBREVIATIONS:
The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
BOD    Biochemical Oxygen Demand
BMP    Best Management Practices
BMR    Baseline Monitoring Report
CE     City Engineer
CFR    Code of Federal Regulations
CIU    Categorical Industrial User
COD    Chemical Oxygen Demand
DPW    Director of Public Works
FOG    Fats, Oils and Grease, interchangeable with Oil and Grease
FSE    Food Service Establishment
GI     Grease Interceptor
gpd    Gallons per day
IAC    Illinois Administrative Code
IEPA   Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
IU     Industrial User
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NCPS   National Categorical Pretreatment Standard
NFSE   Non-Food Service Establishment
NPDES  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NSCIU  Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User
NSRU   Non-Significant Regulated User
POTW   Publicly Owned Treatment Works
PSES   Pretreatment Standards for Existing Sources
PSNS   Pretreatment Standards for New Sources
ppm    Part per million
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SDWA   Safe Drinking Water Act
SIU    Significant Industrial User
SNC    Significant Non-Compliance
SSO    Sewer System Overflows
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act
TSS    Total Suspended Solids
TTO    Total Toxic Organics
UDO    Unified Development Ordinance
U.S.C. United States Code
USEPA  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
 
(Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.1.6:   DEFINITIONS:
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
ACT or THE ACT
or CLEAN WATER The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as
ACT or FEDERAL amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.
ACT:
AGENCY:        The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
AMALGAM        Any wastewater generated and discharged by a dental discharger through the
PROCESS        practice of dentistry that may contain dental amalgam.
WASTEWATER:
AMALGAM        A collection device designed to capture and remove dental amalgam from the amalgam
SEPARATOR:     process wastewater of a dental facility.
APPROVAL       The Regional Administrator of Region V of USEPA, until such time that the State of
AUTHORITY:     Illinois has a USEPA approved pretreatment program.
AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE 1. If the user is a corporation:
OF THE USER:
                  a. By a responsible corporate officer - the president, secretary, treasurer, or
              a vice-president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or
               any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the
               corporation; or
                  b. The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operation
               facilities provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions that
               govern the operation of the regulated facility including having the explicit or
               implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations, and initiate and
              direct other comprehensive measures to assure long-term environmental compliance
               with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems are
               established or actions taken to gather complete and accurate information for
               individual wastewater permit (or general permit) requirements; and where authority
               to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with
               corporate procedures.
              2. If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner or
               proprietor, respectively.
              3. If the user is a limited liability company (LLC): any managing member of the
               company.
               4. If the user is a Federal, state, or local governmental facility: a director or
              highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance
               of the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
               5. The individuals described in paragraphs 1 through 4, above, may designate a
               duly authorized representative, if the authorization is in writing, the
              authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall
               operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having overall
               responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the written
               authorization is submitted to the City of Woodstock.
               6. If an authorization under Paragraph 5 of this section is no longer accurate
               because a different individual or position has responsibility for the overall
               operation of the facility, or overall environmental matters for the company, a new
               authorization satisfying the requirements of Paragraph 5 must be submitted to the
              City of Woodstock within thirty (30) calendar days. If an authorization under
               Paragraph 5 of this section is no longer accurate because the individual described
               in Paragraphs 1 through 4 above has changed, a new authorization satisfying the
               requirements of Paragraph 5 must be submitted to the City of Woodstock within
               thirty (30) calendar days.
               Schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and
BEST           other management practices to implement the prohibitions listed in Section
MANAGEMENT     6.4B.5.2 [40 CFR Section 403.5(a)(1) and (b)] and/or prevent or reduce the
PRACTICE       pollution conveyed to the POTW. BMPs include treatment requirements, operating
(BMP):         procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks,
               Biosolids or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
BIOCHEMICAL    The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
OXYGEN DEMAND  under standard laboratory procedures approved in 40 CFR Part 136 for five (5) days
(BOD) or       at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/
(BOD5):        l).
BIOSOLIDS:     The anaerobically digested and stabilized organic solids removed from the POTW and
               disposed of on agricultural land or at a landfill.
               That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the
               discharge from waste, and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building
BUILDING       and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved point of discharge,
DRAIN:         beginning five feet (5') (one and a half meters (1.5 m.)) outside the inner face
               of the building wall. Discharge of stormwater runoff to the building drain is
               prohibited.
BUILDING       The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of
SEWER:         disposal.
BYPASS:        The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a User’s treatment
               or pretreatment facility.
CATEGORICAL    An industrial user subject to a categorical pretreatment standard or categorical
INDUSTRIAL     standard. A CIU is considered a significant industrial user.
USER (CIU):
CATEGORICAL    Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by USEPA in
PRETREATMENT   accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply
STANDARD or    to a specific category of users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter
CATEGORICAL    N, Parts 405-471.
STANDARD:
CHEMICAL       The quantity of oxygen utilized in the chemical oxidation of all compounds, both
OXYGEN DEMAND  organic and inorganic in water.
(COD):
               The City of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois and any reference to “within the
CITY:          City” shall mean all territory within the perimeter of the City limits or
               wastewater service area.
COMBINED       A pipe or conduit that is designed and constructed to carry wastewater,
SEWER:         stormwater, surface water and ground water drainage.
COMBINED WASTE
STREAM         The formula set forth in 40 CFR Section 403.6(e).
FORMULA:
COMPOSITE      A sample of wastewater composed of two (2) or more discrete samples collected,
SAMPLE:        based on a flow-proportional or time-proportional method.
CONTROL        The City of Woodstock.
AUTHORITY:
COOLING WATER: The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning, cooling or
               refrigeration, to which the only pollutant added is heat.
DAILY AVERAGE: The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a pollutant collected during a
               calendar day.
               The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant during a calendar day. Where
               daily maximum is expressed in terms of a concentration, the daily maximum is the
DAILY MAXIMUM: arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant concentration derived from all
               measurements taken that day. Where daily maximum is expressed in units of mass,
               the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of a day.
DENTAL         An alloy of elemental mercury and other metal(s) that is used in the practice of
AMALGAM:       dentistry.
               A facility where the practice of dentistry is performed, including, but not
DENTAL         limited to, institutions, permanent or temporary offices, clinics, home offices,
DISCHARGER:    and facilities owned and operated by Federal, state or local governments, that
               discharges wastewater to a Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW).
DIRECTOR OF    The Director of Public Works of the City of Woodstock, or his/her authorized
PUBLIC WORKS:  agent.
               Any person, firm, establishment or institution that discharges wastewater,
DISCHARGER:    excluding inflow and infiltration, into the POTW from any non-domestic source
               regulated under Section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act and 35 Ill Adm. Code (IAC)
               307.
DISCHARGE      An individual or general wastewater discharge permit issued to a user which
PERMIT:        specifies the requirements for discharge of wastewater or the requirements for
               zero discharge of wastewater as appropriate.
DULY           The Mayor and City Council of Woodstock and designated employees and agents of the
AUTHORIZED     City.
AGENT:
               A unit designed for occupancy by one (1) family. It may be a house designed for
DWELLING:      the exclusive use of one (1) family or it may be a portion of a building designed
               and intended to be used by one (1) family.
EASEMENT:      An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
EFFLUENT       Those criteria defined in any applicable “NPDES” Permit.
CRITERIA:
ENVIRONMENTAL  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water
PROTECTION     Division Director, the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized official
AGENCY:        of said agency.
EXISTING
DENTAL         A dental discharger that is not a new source.
DISCHARGER
SOURCE:
EXISTING       Any source of discharge that is not a “New Source.”
SOURCE:
FATS, OIL, AND Is used interchangeably with “oils and grease.”
GREASE (FOG):
FECAL COLIFORM Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of man and animals whose
BACTERIA:      presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of pollution.
               The United States government participation in the financing of the construction of
FEDERAL GRANT: the POTW as provided by Title II-Grants for Construction of Treatment Works of the
               Act and implementing regulations.
               Any user engaged in the activities of manufacturing, preparing, serving, or
               otherwise making available for consumption foodstuffs that use one or more of the
               following preparation activities: blending, cooking by frying (all methods),
               baking (all methods), grilling, sautéing, rotisserie cooking, broiling (all
FOOD SERVICE   methods), boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting, or poaching and infrared
ESTABLISHMENT  heating, searing, barbecuing, and any other food preparation or servicing activity
(FSE):         that produces a consumable food product in or on a receptacle requiring washing to
               be reused. A limited food preparation establishment is not considered to be a FSE
               when only engaged in reheating, hot holding or assembly of ready to eat food
               products and as a result, there is no wastewater discharge containing significant
               amounts of FOG.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will separate by gravity from
               wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility.
FLOW:          Volume of wastewater per unit of time.
GARBAGE:       Solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking, and dispensing of
               food, and from the commercial handling, storage, and sale of produce or food.
               A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis without regard to
GRAB SAMPLE:   the Flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed fifteen (15)
               minutes.
               A fee charged to an owner/operator of a food service establishment when there are
               physical limitations to the property that make the installation of the usual and
GREASE         customary grease interceptor or grease control device for the FSE under
DISPOSAL       consideration, impossible or impracticable. The grease disposal mitigation fee is
MITIGATION     intended to cover the costs of the increased maintenance of the sewer system for
FEE:           inspection and cleaning of FOG and other viscous or solidifying agents that a
               properly employed grease control device would otherwise prevent from entering the
               sewer system.
HAULED WASTE:  Sanitary or process wastewater transported as a commercial venture.
HOT SPOTS:     Areas in sanitary sewers that have experienced sanitary sewer overflows or that
               must be cleaned and maintained frequently to avoid blockages of the sewer system.
INDIRECT       The introduction of pollutants into POTW from any nondomestic source under section
DISCHARGE or   307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act.
DISCHARGE:
INDUSTRIAL
USER (IU) or   A source of indirect discharge from a non-residential source.
USER:
INDUSTRIAL     A combination of liquid and water carried wastes discharged, permitted to flow or
WASTE:         escape from any non-residential source, including the wastewater from pretreatment
               facilities and polluted cooling water.
               Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer service
INFILTRATION:  connections and foundation drains) from the ground through such means as defective
               pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes. Infiltration does not include, as is
               distinguished from, inflow.
               Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer service
               connections) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
INFLOW:        drains, yard drains, area drains, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole
               covers, cross connections between storm sewers and sanitary sewers, catch basins,
               cooling towers, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash waters, or drainage.
               Inflow does not include, and is distinguished from, infiltration.
INSPECTOR:     The building inspector of the City of Woodstock.
INSTANTANEOUS  The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time,
LIMIT:         determined from the analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected,
               independent of the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
               A Discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a Discharge or Discharges by other
               sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations, or
               its biosolids processes, use or disposal and therefore, is a cause of a violation
               of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the
               magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the prevention of wastewater or
INTERFERENCE   biosolids use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with the following statutory
or INTERFERE:  provisions and regulations or permits issued thereunder (or more stringent state
               or local regulations): Section 405 of the Clean Water Act, the Solid Waste
               Disposal Act (SWDA) (including title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
               Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and including state regulations contained in
               any state biosolids management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA)
               the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection,
               Research and Sanctuaries Act.
               A dental discharger that does not place dental amalgam, and does not remove dental
LIMITED DENTAL amalgam except in limited emergency or unplanned, unanticipated circumstances. A
DISCHARGER     new limited dental discharge source means a limited dental discharger whose first
SOURCE:        discharge to a POTW occurs after July 14, 2017. An existing limited dental
               discharge source means a limited dental discharger that is not a new source.
               Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the City upon industrial or
LOCAL LIMIT:   commercial facilities to implement the general and specific discharge prohibitions
               listed in 40 CFR Section 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
MAXIMUM
ALLOWABLE      The estimated maximum loading of a pollutant that can be received at a POTW’s
HEADWORKS      headworks without causing pass through or interference.
LOADING:
MAXIMUM        The estimated maximum loading of a pollutant that can be received at a POTW’s
ALLOWABLE      headworks from all permitted industrial users and other controlled sources without
INDUSTRIAL     causing pass through or interference. This is usually calculated by applying a
LOADING:       safety factor to the maximum allowable headworks loading and discounting for
               uncontrolled sources, hauled waste and growth allowance.
MEDICAL        Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood products, pathological
WASTES:        wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially
               contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis wastes.
MILLIGRAMS PER A unit of the concentration of water or Wastewater constituent representing one
LITER:         thousandth of a gram (0.001 g.) of the constituent in one thousand milliliters
               (1,000 ml) of water.
MOBILE UNIT:   A specialized mobile self-contained van, trailer, or equipment used in providing
               dentistry services at multiple locations.
MONTHLY        The sum of all “daily discharges” measured during a calendar month divided by the
AVERAGE:       number of “daily discharges” measured during that month.
MONTHLY        The highest allowable average of “daily discharges” over a calendar month,
AVERAGE LIMIT: calculated as a sum of all the “daily discharges” measured during a calendar month
               divided by the number of “daily discharges” measured during that month.
NATIONAL
CATEGORICAL
PRETREATMENT   Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
STANDARD or    accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1317) which apply to
CATEGORICAL    a specific category of Users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N,
PRETREATMENT   Parts 405-471.
STANDARD or
CATEGORICAL
STANDARD:
NATIONAL
POLLUTANT      The national program for issuing, modifying, revoking and reissuing, terminating,
DISCHARGE      monitoring and enforcing permits from point sources to waters of the United
ELIMINATION    States, and imposing and enforcing pretreatment requirements, under sections 402
SYSTEM or      of the CWA.
NPDES:
NATIONAL
POLLUTANT
DISCHARGE      A permit issued pursuant to Section 402 of the CWA. The City operates its North
ELIMINATION    WWTP under NPDES Permit No. IL0031861 and South WWTP under NPDES Permit No.
SYSTEM PERMIT  IL0034282.
(NPDES
PERMIT):
NATURAL        Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
OUTLET:        ground water.
NEW DENTAL
DISCHARGER     A dental discharger whose first discharge to a POTW occurs after July 14, 2017.
SOURCE:
               1. Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is (or may
               be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the
NEW SOURCE:    publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c) of the Act
               which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
               promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that one of the following is
               true:
                 a. The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at a site
               on which no other source is located;
                  b. The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces the
              process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an
               existing source; or
                  c. The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
               structure, facility, or installations are substantially independent of an existing
              source at the same site. In determining whether these are substantially
               independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility is integrated
               with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in
               the same general type of activity as the existing source, should be considered.
               2. Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results in a
               modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create a new
              building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of Section
               1.b. or c. above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to existing process or
               production equipment.
              3. Construction of a new source as defined under this paragraph has commenced if
               the owner or operator has done one of the following:
                 a. Begun, or caused one (1) of the following to begin as part of a continuous
               onsite construction program:
                    (1) Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment; or
                     (2) Significant site preparation work including, clearing, excavation, or
              removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for
               the placement, assembly, or installation of New Source facilities or equipment; or
                  b. Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities
               or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable
              time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified without
               substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering, and design studies
               do not constitute a contractual obligation under this paragraph.
               4. New sources shall install and have in operating condition and shall “start-up”
              all pollution control equipment required to meet applicable pretreatment standards
               before beginning to discharge.
NON-CONTACT    Water used for cooling which does not come into direct contact with any raw
COOLING WATER: material, intermediate product, waste product, or finished product.
NON-RESIDENTIA All users not defined “residential users.”
L USER:
NON-SIGNIFICAN
T REGULATED    A non-residential user that meets the criteria outlined in Section 6.4B.7.2 C.5.
USER:
OILS AND       Any hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, fats, waxes, oils and any other material
GREASE:        that is extracted by a solvent in a method approved in 40 CFR Part 136.
               A sewer that does not discharge to a public or private sewer main through the use
OVERHEAD       of gravity. Overhead sewers utilize a pump to lift the sewage to an elevation
SEWER:         where gravity can then carry away the wastewater. Non-residential wastes
               discharged from overhead sewers are subject to all the same limits and
               requirements of sanitary sewers.
               A discharge that exits the POTW into waters of the United States in quantities or
PASS THROUGH:  concentrations, which alone or in conjunction with discharge or discharges from
               other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES
               permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
               Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, corporation,
PERSON:        association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any other
               legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. This definition
               includes all Federal, state, and local governmental entities.
pH:            A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution expressed in standard units.
               A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or other waste on a treatment
               works or stream. One population equivalent is one hundred gallons (100 gal.) or
               three hundred and eighty liters (380 l.) of sewage per day, containing seventeen
POPULATION     hundredths of a pound (0.17 lbs.) or seventy-seven gallons (77 gal.) of BOD5 (five
EQUIVALENT:    (5)-day biochemical oxygen demand) and two tenths of a pound (0.20 lbs) or ninety-
               one grams (91 g.) of total suspended solids. The impact on a treatment works is
               evaluated or defined as the highest population equivalent of the three to four (3:
               4) parameters (IEPA 301.345).
               Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash, sewage,
               garbage, wastewater biosolids, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
POLLUTANT:     biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment,
               rock, sand, cellar dirt or industrial, municipal, and agricultural wastes and
               certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity,
               color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
               Any discharge which alone or in combination with discharges from other sources
POTENTIAL      inhibits or disrupts the POTW or any of its processes or operations including
PROBLEM:       plant emissions or any conditions which create public nuisance, causing the POTW
               to expend additional resources or manpower or take additional steps to protect the
               POTW processes or receiving stream.
PPM:           Parts per million.
               The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the
               alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater prior to, or in
               lieu of, discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. This
PRETREATMENT:  reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological
               processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting the
               concentrations of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment
               standard.
PRETREATMENT   The Utilities Manager of the City of Woodstock or his/her designee.
COORDINATOR:
PRETREATMENT   means any substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment imposed on
REQUIREMENTS   a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
               Any specified pollutant, City prohibitive discharge standards as set forth in
PRETREATMENT   Section
STANDARDS or   6.4B.5.2, City specific limitations on discharge as set forth in Section
STANDARDS:     6.4B.5.5, State of Illinois Pretreatment Standards in Ill. Adm. Code Section 307,
               or the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
PROHIBITED
DISCHARGE      Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these
STANDARDS or   prohibitions appear in Section
PROHIBITED     6.4B.5.2.
DISCHARGES:
               The wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that have been
PROPERLY       shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow
SHREDDED       conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than
GARBAGE:       one-half inch (0.5") or one and twenty-seven hundredths centimeters (1.27 cm.) in
               any dimension.
PUBLIC
IMPROVEMENT    The City of Woodstock’s Engineering design standards, specifications, details and
STANDARDS AND  improvement requirements for public improvements constructed and installed in the
DETAILS        City of Woodstock.
(PISD):
               A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the City. It shall also
PUBLIC SEWER:  include sewers within or outside the City limits that serve one (1) or more
               persons and, ultimately Discharge into the City sanitary sewer, even though those
               sewers may not have been constructed with City funds.
               A “Treatment Works”, as defined by Section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. section
               1292) which is owned by the City. This definition includes any devices and systems
PUBLICLY-OWNED used in the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
TREATMENT      of sewage or industrial wastes, of a liquid nature that are connected to the City
WORKS (POTW):  POTW, but does not include sewers, pipes, and other conveyances not connected to
               the City POTW treatment plant. Synonymous with POTW Treatment Plant, Wastewater
               Treatment Works, Wastewater Treatment Plant, Water Pollution Control Facility, and
               Wastewater Facilities.
REGIONAL       The Regional Administrator for USEPA Region V.
ADMINISTRATOR:
RESIDENTIAL
SOURCE or      Any single family or multi-family dwelling unit designed primarily as a place of
RESIDENTIAL    human habitation which discharges only domestic wastewater to the city’s system.
USER:
               A pipe of conduit designed and/or intended to carry wastewater from residences,
SANITARY       commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, and to which stormwater,
SEWER:         surface water, ground water and unpolluted non-contact cooling water are not
               intentionally admitted.
SEPTIC TANK    Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers,
WASTE:         trailers, and septic tanks.
SEWAGE:        Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing operations, etc.).
SEWERAGE:      The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection, transportation and
               pumping of sewage and industrial wastes.
SHALL/MAY:     “Shall” is mandatory; “May” is permissive.
SIGNIFICANT
INDUSTRIAL     A user of the POTW (except as provided by paragraphs 3 and 4) who is:
USER:
              1. A user subject to any National Categorical Pretreatment Standards; or
              2. A user that:
                  a. Has an average process wastewater discharge flow of twenty-five thousand
              gallons (25,000 gal.) or more per work day (excluding sanitary, non-contact
               cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater);
                  b. Has a discharge flow of process wastewater that makes up five percent (5%)
              or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW
               treatment plant; or
                  c. Is designated as such by the City on the basis that it has a reasonable
              potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for violating any
               pretreatment standard or requirement.
               3. The City may determine that a user subject to categorical pretreatment
               standards is a non-significant categorical industrial user rather than a
              significant industrial user on a finding that the user never discharges more than
               one hundred (100) gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical wastewater (excluding
               sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless specifically
               included in the pretreatment standard) and the following conditions are met:
                 a. The user, prior to the city’s finding, has consistently complied with all
               applicable categorical pretreatment standards and requirements;
                  b. The user annually submits the certification statement required in Section
              6.4B.9.3 C. (see 40 CFR Section 403.12(q)), together with any additional
               information necessary to support the certification statement; and
                 c. The user never discharges any untreated concentrated wastewater.
               4. Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in Subsection (2) of this part
               has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
              violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the City may at any time, on
               its own initiative or in response to a petition received from a User, determine
               that such User should not be considered a Significant Industrial User in
               accordance with 40 CFR Section 403.8(f)(6).
SLUDGE:        See “BIOSOLIDS.”
               Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including but not limited to an
               accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge or any discharge of flow rate
               or concentration, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
SLUG or SLUG   through, or in any other way violate the POTW’s regulations, Local Limits or
LOAD:          Permit conditions or a non-customary batch Discharge or any Discharge of flow rate
               or concentration that could cause a violation of the Prohibited Discharge
               Standards in Section
               6.4B.5.2.
STATE ACT:     The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
               The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the construction of POTW
STATE GRANT:   as provided by the Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act and for making such grants as
               filed with the Secretary of the State of Illinois.
STORM SEWER:   A sewer that carries rain water, snow melt and surface drainage but excludes
               sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
STORMWATER:    Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural precipitation, and
               resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
               Any electrical and/or mechanical device designed to raise water from a lower level
SUMP PUMP:     to a higher level and is designed to remove collected storm water from a pit to a
               storm sewer or other approved point of discharge.
SUPERINTENDEN  The Superintendent of the POTWs of the City of Woodstock, or his/her authorized
T:             deputy, agent or representative.
“T”:       As in Cyanide-T means total.
TOTAL          Total suspended matter, expressed in milligrams per liter, that either floats on
SUSPENDED      the surface of, or is in suspension in water, Wastewater or other liquids and
SOLIDS (TSS):  which is removable by laboratory filtration, under standard laboratory procedures
               approved in 40 CFR Part 136.
TOTAL TOXIC    The summation of all quantifiable values greater than one hundredth of a milligram
ORGANICS:      per liter (0.01 mg/l) for the toxic organics specified in the applicable
               regulation.
UNIFIED        A Planning and Zoning Document for the City of Woodstock that encompasses and
DEVELOPMENT    replaces the Zoning Ordinance, the Subdivision Ordinance, and the Sign Ordinance
ORDINANCE      while addressing many other aspects of building and development in the City of
(UDO):         Woodstock.
               Water quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria in effect or water
UNPOLLUTED     that would not cause violation of receiving water quality standards and would not
WATER:         be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment
               facilities provided.
               An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
               noncompliance with pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
UPSET:         control of the industrial user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the
               extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
               inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
               improper operation.
               A source of indirect discharge into the POTW. It also includes such persons or
USER:          sources that are prohibited from discharging specific pollutants or waste streams
               to the POTW.
UTILITIES      The Wastewater Treatment Superintendent of the City of Woodstock or his/her
MANAGER:       designee.
               Any combination of the liquid and water carried industrial wastes and sewage from
WASTEWATER:    residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
               facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are contributed
               to the POTW.
WASTEWATER
DISCHARGE      The document or documents issued to a User by the City pursuant to Section 6.4B.8.
PERMIT:
WATER QUALITY  Those standards defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of Illinois, Title 35,
STANDARDS:     Subtitle C, Chapter I.
               All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water courses, waterways, wells, springs,
WATERS OF THE  reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or
STATE OF       accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or
ILLINOIS:      private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon the State of
               Illinois or any portion thereof.
WORK DAY:      A day on which work or service is performed by an industry. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-
               2024)
 
6.4B.2: SEWER EXTENSION REQUIREMENTS:
6.4B.2.1: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The extension of a Sanitary Sewer by any entity that will serve or in
the future may serve more than one resident, building or property owner that
will connect either directly or indirectly to the POTW of the City shall be
made only after all necessary and applicable documentation as required in
Section
6.4B.2.2  has been submitted to the City for review, approved by the City
Engineer and all required permits obtained.
   B.   All sanitary sewer mains shall be installed across the entire width or
length of the lot, parcel or tract of land to be served. The City Council may,
upon the recommendation of the CE, in accordance with standard engineering
practices, excuse the obligation to extend a sanitary sewer main across the
entire length or width of a lot under the following circumstances:
      1.   When the carrying capacity of a sanitary sewer main has been reached
and further extensions thereof are not feasible.
      2.   When there is no further extension of any given main and it is
reasonably foreseeable to serve any adjacent, contiguous or adjoining property,
then the obligation of extending a sanitary sewer main across the entire length
or width of a lot, parcel or tract of land may be temporarily excused until an
extension of any such main is needed to service adjacent, contiguous or
adjoining real estate. The owner of any lot, parcel or tract of land shall,
when applying for any such temporary excuse from the obligations of this
section, execute a covenant running with the land obligating their heirs,
administrators, successors or assigns of the owner at the time of the
application to extend any such main when extension is needed to serve adjacent,
contiguous or adjoining properties, or to pay the cost therefore, and to give
the City such temporary and permanent easements as may in the future be needed
to lay, trench, dig or extend any such sewer pipe. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.2.2: SEWER EXTENSION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application. Persons desiring such extension of the sewer system shall
submit, at a minimum, to the City for approval by the City Engineer (CE) four
(4) copies of the following documents.
      1.   Detailed plans and specifications prepared by a professional
engineer registered in the State of Illinois.
      2.   IEPA permit application with such supporting documents required by
the IEPA, completely filled out and ready for City signature.
      3.   Detailed Engineer’s Estimate of Probable Cost for the proposed
improvements.
   The person or persons extending the sewer shall pay all costs of plan review
by the CE to the City prior to the City signing the IEPA permit application.
   B.   Issuance. The City will issue a permit for construction in accordance
with the following:
      1.   It has been demonstrated that the downstream POTW, including City
sewers and pump stations, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load; shall be constructed
with minimum size as required by the City’s Sanitary Sewer Master Plan, the
Public Improvement Standards and Details (PISD) and the Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO), whichever is greater.
      2.   A permit has been issued by the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency (IEPA). Future construction on the project for which the original permit
was not issued shall require a new permit that will be issued in compliance
with the ordinances of the City at the time of the application for the new
permit. All fees and charges assessed under the conditions of the City permit
are forfeited by the applicant/owner upon the expiration of the permit.
      3.   An improvement guarantee as required per the UDO has been secured by
the City for the proposed improvements.
      4.   The City has received copies of all required and necessary permits,
insurance and bonds required for street openings or stream crossings and any
other permits required by an outside agency having jurisdiction.
      5.   The City has received certificates of insurance protecting the City
from any liability or damage whatsoever from injury, including death, to any
person or property. The amount of the insurance shall be as established by the
City Council.
   C.   Construction Requirements.
      1.   The rules, regulations, ordinances and policies listed hereafter and
issued by the authorities indicated are incorporated herein by reference and
shall govern the work as far as they apply to said work.
      2.   The city’s rules, regulations, resolutions, policies, directives and
instructions that may be adopted or issued from time to time by the City.
         a.   The City of Woodstock Public Improvements Standards and Details
(PISD), latest edition.
         b.   “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois” latest edition.
         c.   The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency’s rules,
regulations, technical releases and requirements.
         d.   “The Illinois Recommended Standards for Sewage Works,” IEPA,
latest edition.
         e.   “The State of Illinois Plumbing Code” (latest edition).
         f.   “Federal Manual of Practice No. 9”, Water Pollution Control
Federation, latest edition.
      3.   All construction inspection of the proposed improvements shall be
per Section VII of the PISD. All costs associated with these inspections shall
be the paid for by the permittee.
      4.   Any and all deviations from the approved design or approved
materials as shown on the approved plans, shall be approved by the City
Engineer, or his/her designee prior to any changes being made in the field.
   D.   Project Completion. The proposed improvements will not be considered
complete, a certificate of occupancy shall not be issued or permit considered
closed out until all public improvements have been completed, inspected and
accepted by the City as identified in the UDO and the PISD. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-
16-2024)
6.4B.3: SEWER CONNECTION PROCEDURES:
6.4B.3.1: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or allow to be
deposited any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste
in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the City or in
any area under the jurisdiction of the City.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet or storm drain
within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said City without the
expressed approval from the DPW that all state and Federal effluent limitations
have been met and there are no reasonable alternative methods of disposal and
has been permitted by the City.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owner of any house, building, or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purpose situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located any public sanitary sewer of the City, is hereby required
at his expense to install suitable facilities therein; including toilets,
urinals, lavatory sinks and kitchen sinks; and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
section, within ninety (90) calendar days after date of official notice to do
so; provided that said public sewer is located within the distance set forth in
Chapter 8 of the UDO. All public sewer extensions shall be made in accordance
with Section
6.4B.2.2 .
      1.   Application for a permit to make a connection to the public sanitary
sewer shall be made in accordance with Section
6.4B.3.3 .
      2.   Failure to install such facilities and to connect same to the public
sanitary sewer within ninety (90) calendar days after date of official notice
to connect, shall be deemed, held and construed as a violation of this
provision, punishable as provided in Sections
6.4B.14  and
6.4B.15 .
      3.   In the event of failure upon the part of the owner to make the
described connection within ninety (90) calendar days after date of official
notice to connect, if it shall appear that such delay is not willful upon the
part of the owner, an official notice in writing by the City shall be given to
the owner to make such connection, served personally or by certified mail. If
the owner fails, neglects and refuses to make the connection within thirty (30)
calendar days of the date of this notice, he shall be held and deemed to be in
violation of this provision, and punishable as provided in Sections
6.4B.14  and
6.4B.15 .
   E.   No user(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, stormwater sump
pumps, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface
run-off or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   F.   Damages. The City shall not be held responsible for damages to personal
property caused by the construction or repair to the City sewers, by water and
sewage seepage, or for any other reason. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.3.2: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Where a public sanitary sewer is not readily available, Chapter 8 of
the UDO that identifies what may be allowed and procedures that must be
followed.
   B.   Where development is possible but gravity sewers and conventional sewer
systems are not practical. Accordingly, it is the policy of the City to approve
privately owned and maintained lift station systems on a discretionary case-by-
case basis. In order to implement one of these systems, a developer or
individual homeowner must prove to the City that a privately owned and
maintained lift station system is the only viable option other than a
conventional sanitary sewer system.
      1.   Permitting. A permit shall be submitted and inspection fee as
published in Section
6.4B.17.1  shall be paid to the City at the time the application is filed.
      2.   Installation. The City shall inspect the work at any stage of the
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
City when the privately owned and maintained lift station system is ready for
final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
      3.   Operation and Maintenance. The City shall be entitled to inspect the
privately owned and maintained lift station system if the City has any reason
to believe that the privately owned and maintained lift station system is not
operating properly. should the privately owned and maintained lift station
system fall into disrepair or otherwise need maintenance as determined by the
City, and the owner refuses to repair, replace or otherwise fix the privately
owned and maintained lift station system to the specifications of the City, the
City may do so at its own expense and obtain reimbursement from the individual
owner and/or place a lien against the property owner for such charges. in that
regard, and as a condition of obtaining a City permit for a privately owned and
maintained lift station system, the individual owner shall enter into a
contractual agreement indemnifying the City for any costs the City may incur
with regards to maintaining the privately owned and maintain lift station
system, and further allow the City reasonable access to the grinder pump system
for inspection purposes.
   C.   Other provisions.
      1.   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the City.
      2.   As provided in Section
6.4B.3.2 .B, at such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made
to the public sewer within ninety (90) calendar days after official notice has
been received by the City. Any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be cleaned of biosolids and filled with
suitable material such as clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
      3.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the McHenry
County Department of Health as appropriate. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.3.3: BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Requirements. No person shall construct a new wastewater source
and connect same to a POTW of the City without first making application for the
privilege of making said connection to the City.
      1.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into; use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the City and receipt of an IEPA
permit when required under 35 IAC 309.
      2.   No addition to or alteration of any building sewer shall be made or
caused to be made by any person without a permit from the City and then only
through a sewer contractor. No permit shall authorize anything not explicitly
stated in the application.
      3.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      4.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Act, the Illinois Environmental Protection Act and regulations
promulgated thereto, and the City of Woodstock Municipal Code.
      5.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
         a.   For residential and commercial service; and
         b.   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In
either case, the owner or his agent shall obtain a building permit from the
City.
   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications,
or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the City. A permit
and inspection fee as defined in Section
6.4B.17.1  shall be paid to the City at the time the application is filed.
      6.   Persons desiring to construct a new waste source and connect it to
the POTW of the City shall state the quantity, quality and rate of discharge
into the sewer. Non-residential users, as a condition of permit authorization,
must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity per Section
6.4B.4.1 . In the case of any fraudulent representation upon the part of the
user, the permit fees will be forfeited and the use of the sewer stopped.
      7.   A building sewer permit for a sewer connection will only be issued
if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage facilities, including
sewers, pump stations and POTW, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately
and efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load based on the
population equivalent.
      8.   The applicant will secure a building permit if the waste source is
new equipment to be installed in an existing building with an existing sewer.
      9.   Each excavation for any of the purposes set out in this subsection
shall require a separate permit.
   Any person who makes any excavation or does any work without first securing
the permit required by this subsection, upon conviction thereof, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, in addition to any other penalty imposed by this
section, shall be liable for the penalties set forth in City Code.
      10.   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The person installing the
building sewer for said owner shall be a plumber or sewer contractor and he
shall indemnify the City from loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly
be occasioned by said installation. Before a building permit is issued for a
sewer connection, the plumber or sewer contractor shall obtain all necessary
permits associated with the proposed work.
      11.   Repairs, maintenance, and replacement of all building sewers and
building drains shall be made by and at the expense of the owner of the
premises served.
      12.   The building permit will be issued for a period of twenty-four (24)
months consistent with the IEPA permits.
   B.   Building Sewer Connections.
      1.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building, except that where one (1) building stands at the rear of
another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one (1) building sewer and may be
done only with the explicit approval of the City, provided all buildings are
owned by the same property owner and remain under one (1) ownership. In no case
shall any owner be permitted to maintain, without the consent of the City, any
connection of a building drain to a building sewer located across or under the
property of another.
      2.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the City or his/her
designee, to meet all requirements of this section. All costs for this
examination shall be borne by the applicant.
      3.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the PISD, building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations
of the City. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
      4.   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet
(3') of any bearing wall. No building sewers shall be installed in any place
where they may be subject to freezing temperatures unless adequate provisions
are made to protect them from frost. Changes in direction outside the building
shall be made only at a manhole.
      5.   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means which is approved in
accordance with this section and discharged to the building sewer. All building
sanitary services shall be “overhead” installations. Buildings having basements
will have a pump or ejector provided to pump the wastewater to the sanitary
sewer service for gravity transport to the sewer main.
      6.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
at an existing stub and conform to the requirements of the PISD and the
building and plumbing code, or other applicable rules and regulations of the
City, or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the American
Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of
Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois. All such connections shall be made gastight and
watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the CE before installation.
   If no stub is available, then a wye or tee shall be installed on the public
sanitary sewer per the PISD by the user, at his expense, subject to inspection
and approval by the City.
   C.   Construction Requirements. Construction may not be started until fees
are paid consistent with Section
6.4B.3.4  and a written permit is issued by the City after issuance and receipt
of an IEPA permit for the project when applicable. The following conditions are
also required:
      1.   The applicant shall secure a right-of-way opening permit from the
City when appropriate in conformance with the provisions of the Building Code.
      2.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City, at the
expense of the owner. Failure to properly barricade will be cause for the job
site to be shut down and a fee as provided in Section
6.4B.17.1  must be paid before any further work can commence.
      3.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the City
not less than twenty-four (24) hours (excluding weekends and holidays) prior to
the start of any underground piping installation and when the building sewer is
ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall
be made under the supervision of a qualified duly authorized agent of the City
during regular City working hours, and the connection shall not be covered
until approved by the City.
      4.   All sewer services shall be per the PISD and building codes as
adopted by the City of Woodstock. It is the property owner’s responsibility to
maintain the cleanout and cap in a manner to prevent overflows.
   D.   Sanitary Sewer Uses Outside of the Corporate Limits of the City. No new
permit shall be issued for the tapping into or use of sanitary sewer facility
under the jurisdiction of the City for any location outside of the corporate
limits or the wastewater service area of the City, unless expressly approved by
the City Council. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.3.4: FEES:
The following types of fees shall be charged for when permitting and
constructing a new wastewater source and connecting it the POTW of the City.
All review, inspection and connection fees shall be based upon current fees
identified in Section
6.4B.17.1 .
   A.   A review and connection fee for sewer permit shall be paid to the City
at the time the residential application is filed. Non-residential, commercial
and industrial fees, will be based on an individual case basis measured by the
impact on the current facility and current POTW capacity. A minimum sewer
connection fee shall be established for any non-residential - commercial and
industrial users at four (4) Population Equivalents (PE). The first inspection
that is required for a service is covered by the review fee.
   B.   An inspection fee shall be paid for any additional inspections. This
includes but is not limited to inspections of sampling manholes; common
interceptors; flow metering or sampling equipment; garbage grinders; and
grease, oil and sand interceptors. A separate review fee may be charged based
on the cost and expense to review equalization and/or pretreatment facilities
required at a non-residential user.
   C.   All sewer and water impact fees as required by the City of Woodstock
code. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.3.5: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged to any
facility served by the City, without having first complied with the terms of
this chapter. At minimum, all users are subject to the prohibited discharge
standards in Section
6.4B.5.2 , Change Notification in Section
6.4B.9.7  and Hazardous Waste Notification in Section
6.4B.9.10  if applicable. Spill/slug control planning may also be necessary for
some non-residential users as identified in Section
6.4B.6.5 .
   B.   No user(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.3.6: MONITORING FACILITIES:
   A.   An inspection fee as provided in Section
6.4B.17.1  shall be paid to the City prior to issuance of the permit should it
be determined that the user is required to install any of the following
structures:
      1.   Inspection Manhole Requirements. All users located in areas zoned
commercial, industrial and/or business park and such other users as required by
the City, except residential users, are required to install an inspection
manhole for each separate discharge in the building sewer in accordance with
the plans and specifications approved by the CE. Each manhole shall be situated
on the User’s premises as identified in the PIDS and approved by the City.
      There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole to allow
accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The manhole shall be
installed and maintained by the owner/user at his sole expense so as to be safe
and accessible to the City at all times. The failure of a user to keep its
monitoring facility in good working order shall not be grounds for the user to
claim that sample results are unrepresentative of its discharge.
         a.   Where such a manhole location as required by the PISD would be
impractical or cause extreme hardship on the user, the CE may concur with the
manhole being constructed in an alternate location. In those cases where an
inspection manhole must be in a parking lot, a permanent barricade, such as a
vertical pipe shall be placed around the manhole to prevent vehicles from
driving or parking over the manhole cover.
         b.   The City may approve a delay of no more than six (6) months for
the installation of the inspection manhole when specific circumstances prevent
the installation of a manhole.
         c.   A postponement for an inspection manhole will be handled on a
case-by-case basis by the City when it is determined that the discharge is
solely from a residential source and the site is not in a zoned business park/
industrial area.
         d.   When a postponement for an inspection manhole installation is
granted by the City, an affidavit will be signed by the property owner to
install the manhole at a later date should business practices change at the
location where the manhole installation was postponed.
         e.   The City may determine sub-classes of business that need not
install monitoring manholes. Monitoring manholes will always be required in
zoned business or industrial parks.
      2.   Flow Metering Equipment. All significant industrial users may be
required to install a flow measuring device. the City may, at its option, based
on the water usage and/or waste loadings, require the user to install a device
with a recording and totalizing register for measurement of the liquid
quantity. The equipment required to indicate, record, and totalize the flow
shall be located in a warm dry location and be accessible to the City for
reading. This equipment shall be installed and maintained by the user at his
sole expense. Should this requirement be made, the user shall complete
installation based on the installation schedule approved for such device by the
City.
      The user shall be required to calibrate and maintain the flow metering
equipment in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommended procedures and
frequencies. Users who operate flow measuring devices may be required to submit
the procedure for operation and maintenance (O&M) to the City. The user shall
further document O&M in a log which shall be available for inspection by City
personnel.
      The flow metering equipment shall be calibrated by an outside
representative and submitted to the City as required by the user’s wastewater
discharge permit. The permit will also outline the flow record submittal
requirements.
      3.   Sampling Equipment. The City may, at its option, based on water
usage and/or waste loadings or when the waste loads cannot be accurately
evaluated by time composite samples, require the user to install flow
proportional sampling equipment. This equipment shall be installed and
maintained by the user at his sole expense.
      Users shall submit the procedure for O&M to the City upon request. The
user shall further document O&M in a log which shall be available for
inspection by City personnel. The user shall have an outside representative
verify the accuracy of the sampling equipment and submit to the City as
required by the user’s wastewater discharge permit. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.3.7: ADDITIONAL STRUCTURES REQUIRED FOR THE USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   An inspection fee as provided by Section
6.4B.17.1  shall be paid to the City prior to issuance of the permit should it
be determined that the user is required to install any of the following
structures:
      1.   Garbage Grinders. Garbage is required to be properly shredded in
order to be approved to be discharged to the public sewer. Wastes classified as
properly shredded garbage contain all particles being carried freely under the
flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater
than one-half inch (0.5 in.) or one and twenty-seven hundredths centimeters
(1.27 cm.) in any dimension. The installation and operation of any garbage
grinder equipped, with a motor of three-fourths (3/4) horsepower (0.76 hp
metric) or greater shall be subject to review and approval of the City. The
discharge of grinders is prohibited to be connected to a grease interceptor.
      2.   Oil and Sand Interceptors for Non-FSE. Interceptors shall be
provided in services connected to the City where it is determined that they are
necessary for the proper handling of the wastewater containing excessive
amounts of grease, oil, and sand except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptor units
shall be of type and capacity approved by the City and shall be so located to
be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Oil and sand interceptors
used for petroleum grease and oils may be located inside the building. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the owner at his expense.
      3.   Neutralizing Basins. Laboratory and facilities commonly using acid
or alkaline chemicals or compounds must install a neutralizing basin. All
basins shall be of type and capacity approved by the City and shall be so
located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      Equipment and devices installed under this section shall not be
considered to provide pretreatment to wastewater. Any user operating devices
installed in this section shall submit operating data as may be required by the
City.
      4.   Equalization and Pretreatment Equipment. If the City requires the
equalization or pretreatment of waste discharges, the design and installation
of the equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the City, and,
subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws. Said
facilities shall also be subject to approval by IEPA consistent with IEPA
regulations.
      Where equalization or pretreatment facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
his expense. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.3.8: FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Grease and Interceptors – Food Service Establishments (FSE). Hydro-
mechanical grease interceptors and gravity grease interceptors (collectively
referred to as grease interceptors or GI) are required to be installed in all
new FSE. All GI shall be of a type and capacity approved by the City Plumbing
Inspector based on an evaluation of the volume and characteristics of the
Discharge in conjunction with the operating plan of the FSE. The City Plumbing
Inspector may require GI to be installed or modified in an existing FSE where
FSE that have caused or contributed to overflows and/or blockages, or at
existing FSE that meet the remodeling requirements identified in this section
or when streetscapes or street/sewer replacements are installed.
      1.   Installation Requirements.
         a.   All newly constructed FSE’s shall install an exterior GI prior to
operation of the facility.
         b.   Common Interceptors are required to be installed when the tenants
or purchasers of sub-properties that are unknown by the complex owner and
zoning allows the build-out of an FSE in said properties. The owner of the
property on which the Common Interceptor is located shall be primarily
responsible for the maintenance, upkeep, and repair of the Common Interceptor.
         c.   Existing FSE. All existing FSE’s may be required to install a GI
at the request of the City Plumbing Inspector. The City Plumbing Inspector may
require a GI to be installed or modified in an existing FSE within ninety (90)
calendar days of notification by the City where the FSE has caused or
contributed to overflows and/or blockages, when any reconstruction, rebuilding,
or remodeling of fifty percent (50%) or more of the building occurs, or when
streetscapes or street/sewer replacements are installed. The City Plumbing
Inspector may require a new GI to be installed when the facility has an
undersized, irreparable, or defective GI. In the event that winter weather will
impact the installation of a GI, the City may grant an extension of the
installation schedule to a maximum of one hundred eighty (180) calendar days.
         d.   Existing FSE where hot spots or blockages have occurred. GI’s
will be required to be installed within ninety (90) calendar days of a notice
by the City if hot spots or blockages have occurred. GI’s interior to the
building may be required as an interim measure to the installation of an
exterior GI. Such GI will be required to be installed within from five (5) to
thirty (30) calendar days, as determined by the City based upon the nature of
the hot spot or blockage, after a notice by the City.
      2.   Location. All GI shall be so located to be easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. All GI will be provided exterior to the building for
all new construction and when feasible at existing FSE. The GI shall not be
located in drive-through lanes, parking stalls, or public right-of-way.
      3.   Fees. A permit and inspection fee as provided by Section
6.4B.17.1  shall be paid to the City prior to issuance of the permit should it
be determined that the user is required to install any GI.
      4.   Sign-off Inspection. Prior to the initial operation of any FSE, the
GI shall be inspected by the City and a sign-off will be issued by the City.
Notification will be made by the FSE to the Building Official during normal
business hours of the City. Inspections will be made normally by the City
within two (2) City work days of the notice. The FSE will be required to make
appropriate changes prior to initial operation, in the event that the GI does
not meet requirements.
      5.   Maintenance. A GI located inside an FSE shall be inspected and
cleaned weekly. A GI located outside an FSE on its property shall be inspected
and the grease cap and solids blanket minimally cleaned every three (3) months;
the entire contents of the trap cleaned annually; and the GI repaired
regularly, as needed, by the owner at his expense. Logs of inspection and
cleaning are to be posted in a readily accessible location of the facility. It
shall be the responsibility of the FSE to inspect its GI during the pumping
procedure to ensure the trap is properly cleaned out and that all fittings and
fixtures inside the trap are in working condition and functioning properly. In
the event that actual operations of the GI fail to produce results that
consistently prevent prohibitive discharges, as defined in Section
6.4B.5.2 , or fail to meet local limits, as defined in Section
6.4B.5.5 , the owner of the FSE will be required by the City Plumbing Inspector
to have the GI cleaned at a more frequent rate or install or modify
pretreatment as necessary.
      6.   Modifications. The City Plumbing Inspector may make determinations
of GI adequacy, need, design, appropriateness, application, location,
modification(s), and conditional usage based on review of all relevant
information regarding GI performance, facility site and building plan review by
all regulatory reviewing agencies and may require repairs to, or modification
or replacement of the GI.
      7.   All FSEs may be issued a General Wastewater Discharge Permit as
provided by Sections
6.4B.7  and
6.4B.8 .
   B.   Grease Interceptor Criteria. GI installed at new and existing FSE must
meet the following criteria:
      1.   Size. The size will be determined by a formula approved by the City.
The minimum capacity of any one unit shall be five hundred gallons (500 gal.)
and the maximum capacity shall be one thousand five hundred gallons (1,500
gal.). Where sufficient capacity cannot be achieved with a single unit,
installation of GI in series is required.
      2.   Twenty-five Percent (25%) Requirement. Provide for a minimum
hydraulic retention time of twenty-four (24) minutes at actual peak flow
between the influent and effluent baffles, with twenty-five percent (25%) of
the total volume of the GI being allowed for any food derived solids to settle
or accumulate and floatable grease-derived materials to rise and accumulate,
identified as a solids blanket and grease cap respectively.
      3.   Access Manholes. Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of twenty-
four inches (24"), shall be provided over each exterior GI chamber and each
sanitary tee. The access manholes shall extend at least to finished grade and
be designed to and maintained to prevent water inflow or infiltration. The
manholes shall also have readily removable covers to facilitate inspection,
grease removal, and wastewater sampling activities.
      4.   Prohibitions. Dishwashers and food waste disposal units shall not be
connected to or discharged into any GI.
   C.   FSE Waivers. A request for a waiver is required to be filed with the
City on a form provided by the City and a waiver review fee will be required at
the time of the filing as defined in Section
6.4B.17.1 . Waiver requests are not considered to be filed until the request
has been reviewed and determined complete. If the City fails to act on a
completed waiver request within forty-five (45) calendar days, a request for
waiver shall be deemed to be denied. While waivers may result in an alteration
of the GI requirements, it does not waive the requirement to prevent
prohibitive discharges through alternate technologies and best management plan
practices.
      1.   Existing External FSE GI Installation Waiver. The requirement to
install and to properly operate and maintain a GI is conditionally stayed, that
is, delayed in its implementation by the City. Terms and conditions for
application of a stay to a FSE shall be set forth in a permit. The terms may
include the requirement to install GI(s) inside the facility, alternate
technology and the use of best management practices. The waiver will not apply
to any existing facility that has not operated as a FSE for the last twelve
(12) consecutive months prior to the adoption of this chapter. Such facilities
will be required to install a GI in order to operate a FSE in the City sanitary
sewer service area.
      2.   Common GI Waiver. Common GI means one (1) or more interceptors
receiving FOG laden wastewater from more than one (1) establishment. Common
interceptors may be used in lieu individual GI at each FSE provided a waiver
has been granted by the City. A common GI may be located at shopping centers,
malls, entertainment complexes, sporting arenas, hotels, multi-tenant “flex”
spaces, mixed use spaces, and other sites where multiple establishments are
connected to a single GI. The owner of the property on which the common GI is
located shall be responsible for operating and maintenance of the common
interceptor including program documentation, upkeep, and repair. In such cases,
the permit will be issued to the property owner for the GI and general
wastewater discharge permits will also be issued at each FSE for best
management practices requirements.
      3.   Limited Food Preparation Establishments GI Installation Waiver.
Waivers for installations at FSE only serving beverages and snack bars with no
food preparation other than food warming will be handled on a case-by-case
basis by the City and are deemed to be limited food preparation establishments.
      4.   Constraint Waivers at existing FSE. Where the installation of a GI
is not feasible and no equivalent alternative Pretreatment can be installed, a
waiver from the installation of the GI requirement may be granted. The City
determination to grant the waiver will be based upon, but not limited to,
evaluation of the following conditions:
         a.   There is no adequate space for installation and/or maintenance of
a GI;
         b.   There is no adequate slope for gravity flow between the kitchen
plumbing fixtures and the GI and/or between the GI and the private collection
lines or public sewer; or
         c.   A waiver from GI installation cannot be granted to allow
alternative pretreatment technology that is, at least, equally effective in
controlling the FOG discharge in lieu of a GI.
      If a constraint waiver is granted, the City will institute the grease
disposal mitigation fee as outlined in Section
6.4B.17.1 .
      5.   Alternate Technology Waiver. The use of automatic grease removal
systems is permissible only upon the written approval of the DPW, the City
Plumbing Inspector, and the McHenry County Health Department. Approval of the
device shall be based on demonstrated (proven) removal efficiencies and
reliability of operation. The City may approve these types of devices dependent
on manufacturer’s specifications on a case by case basis. Any user operating an
alternative technology may be subject to additional operational requirements.
Any user with this equipment shall operate the system in such a manner that
attainment of the city’s oil and grease local limit, as measured from the
unit’s outlet, is consistent achieved as required by the City.
      6.   Cleaning Cycle Waiver. The GI Owner or operator may petition the
Pretreatment Coordinator to reduce the cleaning and servicing of the GI from
every three (3) months to a maximum of every six (6) months upon demonstration
that the amount removed every three (3) months is significantly less than the
twenty-five percent (25%) requirement for the basin capacity, as defined in
Section
6.4B.5.5 .C, and the discharge does not exceed the city’s oil and grease local
limit, as defined in Section
6.4B.5.5 , at a downstream sampling location. The GI Owner or operator will be
required to submit sufficient data to the Pretreatment Coordinator that the
twenty-five percent (25%) requirement can be maintained using a longer cleaning
cycle. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.3.9:   SEWER LINE MAINTENANCE/ REPLACEMENT:
   A.   The property owner is responsible for the maintenance and repair of the
private sewer line from their structure to the main sewer or public sewer
including the tee or tap connection into the public sewer.
   B.   In the event the property owner finds it necessary to excavate the
private sewer line for maintenance or replacement that shall be the property
owner’s responsibility.
   C.   In those instances when property owners have to excavate in the public
right-of-way, a right-of-way opening permit is required and the property owner
will be responsible for the restoration of the street (surface and sub-surface)
curb and sidewalk.
   D.   All work, as it is related to the replacement and/or repair of the
private sewer line, shall be in conformance with the PISD and will be inspected
by a duly authorized agent of the City during the repair and replacement. (Ord.
24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.3.10: AUTOMOBILE SERVICE , REPAIR AND FUEL DISPENSING PROPERTIES:
   A.   When property use involves automotive repair or handling, sale and
dispensing of petroleum products and/or automotive fluids, all discharges shall
have installed a sampling manhole consistent with the requirements of Section
6.4B.3.6 . All inspection manholes of this type shall be monitored throughout
the year in a manner secured and coordinated by the Pretreatment Coordinator.
Additionally, any property involved in the repair or servicing of automobiles,
trucks, or engine-powered equipment shall install a triple basin oil separator
in the sanitary line (per State of Illinois Plumbing codes) servicing the
repair area of the building. This system shall be cleaned, serviced and
inspected at least four (4) times per year by the owner at his expense. The
property may petition the Pretreatment Coordinator to reduce the cleaning and
servicing of the triple basin oil separator to two (2) times per year upon
demonstration that the amount removed quarterly is significantly less than
twenty-five percent (25%) requirement for the basin capacity and the discharge
does not exceed the city’s oil and grease local limit. Conversely, the system
may be required by the Pretreatment Coordinator to be cleaned at a more
frequent rate if the property cannot meet the requirements.
   B.   When property use involves automotive repair or handling, sale and
dispensing of petroleum products and/or automotive fluids, there shall be a
separate drainage system constructed to collect all fluids from the areas
associated with pump islands and under pump canopies. This separate drainage
system shall collect these fluids and hold them in a separate sealed tank for
testing and removal by approved special waste handling methods. All fuel
dispensing equipment, piping and venting shall be installed in accordance with
the standards listed below and be in accordance and in compliance with the
current adopted building, electrical and fire codes:
      1.   Guidance Manual for LUST Cleanups in Illinois, September 1989; and
Leaking Underground Storage Tank Manual, September 1991; both published by
IEPA, 2200 Churchill Road, P.O. Box 19276, Springfield, IL 62794-9276.
      2.   Recommended Practices for Installation of Underground Liquid Storage
Systems, PEI/RP 100, 1994; published by Petroleum Equipment Institute, P.O. Box
2380, Tulsa, OK 74101.
      3.   Flammable and Combustible Liquid Code, NFPA/30; Automotive and
Marine Services Station Code, NFPA/30A; National Electric Code, NFPA/70; and
Underground Leakage of Flammable and Combustible Liquids, NFPA/329; latest
editions all published by National Fire Protection Association, 1 Batterymarch
Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, MA 02269-9904.
      4.   Underground Storage Tanks; Technical Requirements and State Program
Approval; Final Rules, 40 CFR Parts 280 and 281, Part II, Federal Register,
Friday, September 23, 1988; and Musts for UST’s: A Summary of the New
Regulations for Underground Storage Tank Systems, and Hazardous Waste
Management Standards, Federal Register, July 14, 1986, both published by USEPA,
Office of Underground Storage Tanks, 401 M Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20460.
      5.   Rules of the Illinois State Fire Marshall, Parts 170 and 180, Title
41, Chapter 1, State of Illinois, Office of the Fire Marshall, 1035 Stevenson
Parkway, Springfield, IL 62703.
   C.   Jurisdiction.
      1.   These requirements shall be met by any property use associated with
automotive repair or the handling, sale or dispensing of petroleum products
and/or automotive fluids, where any water main, wastewater or stormwater
facility is under the jurisdiction of the City, regardless of whether or not
such property lies within the corporate limits of the City.
      2.   The requirements of this section shall not be applied to existing
property uses except that whenever a permit shall be required for new
construction or reconstruction of a property use associated with automotive
repair or the handling, sale or dispensing of petroleum products and/or
automotive fluids, involving placement, replacement, reconfiguration, removal
or modification of any fueling area, or a discharge has occurred that does not
meet the city’s local limits or a blockage has been caused or contributed to
issues in the public sewer. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.3.11: AMALGAM MANAGEMENT AT DENTAL OFFICES:
   A.   Applicability.
      1.   Except as provided in paragraphs 3, 4, and 5 of this section, this
part applies to dental dischargers as defined in Section
6.4B.1.6 .
      2.   Dental dischargers subject to this part are not significant
industrial users as defined in 40 CFR Part 403, and are not categorical
industrial users or industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards as those terms and variations are used in 40 CFR Part 403, as a
result of applicability of 40 CFR Part 441.
      3.   This part does not apply to dental dischargers that exclusively
practice one or more of the following dental specialties: oral pathology, oral
and maxillofacial radiology, oral and maxillofacial surgery, orthodontics,
periodontics, or prosthodontics.
      4.   This part does not apply to wastewater discharges from mobile units
as defined in Section
6.4B.1.6  operated by a dental discharger.
      5.   This part does not apply to dental dischargers that do not discharge
any amalgam process wastewater as defined in Section
6.4B.1.6  to a POTW, such as dental dischargers that collect all dental amalgam
process wastewater for transfer to a centralized waste treatment facility as
defined in 40 CFR Part 437.
      6.   Dental dischargers that do not place dental amalgam as defined in
Section
6.4B.1.6 , and do not remove amalgam except in limited emergency or unplanned,
unanticipated circumstances, and that certify such to the control authority as
required in 40 CFR Section 441.50 are exempt from any further requirements of
this part.
   B.   Existing Dental Discharger Compliance. Existing dental discharger as
defined in Section
6.4B.1.6  were required to comply with the requirements of 40 CFR Section
441.30(a) that defines removal of amalgam solids and 40 CFR Section 441.30(b)
implementation of two (2) best management practices by July 14, 2020 and submit
a one (1)-time compliance report per 40 CFR Section 441.50(a) by October 12,
2020 to the USEPA Region 5 and maintain and make available for inspection
defined records per 40 CFR Section 441.50(b).
      1.   If a transfer of an existing source occurs after July 14, 2020, the
new owner must submit a new one (1)-time compliance report to the City no later
than ninety (90) calendar days after the transfer.
   C.   New Dental Discharger Compliance. As of July 14, 2017, any new dental
discharger source as defined in Section 6.4B.1.6 subject to this section must
comply with the requirements of 40 CFR Section 441.40 that states discharges
must comply with the requirements of 40 CFR Section 441.30(a) that defines
removal of amalgam solids and 40 CFR Section 441.30(b) implementation of two
(2) best management practices. Dental dischargers must file a one-time
compliance report with the City per 40 CFR Section 441.50(a) no later than
ninety (90) calendar days following the introduction of wastewater into the
POTW and maintain and make available for inspection defined records per 40 CFR
Section 441.50(b).
      1.   If a transfer of a new source occurs after July 14, 2017, the new
owner must submit a new one-time compliance report to the City no later than
ninety (90) calendar days after the transfer.
   D.   Limited Dental Dischargers. Existing limited dental dischargers were
required to file a one-time compliance report with certification that they do
not remove dental amalgam except in limited emergency or unplanned,
unanticipated circumstances by October 12, 2020 to USEPA Region 5.
      1.   New source limited dental dischargers are required to submit this
one (1)-time compliance report to the City within ninety (90) calendar days
following the introduction of wastewater for new sources.
   E.   Signatory Requirements. The one (1)-time compliance report must be
signed and certified by a responsible corporate officer, a general partner or
proprietor if the dental discharger is a partnership or sole proprietorship, or
a duly authorized representative in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR
Section 403.12(j) and Section
6.4B.1.6  under Authorized Representative (5) and (6). (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-
2024)
6.4B.4: INFORMATION REQUIRED OF NON-RESIDENTIAL USERS:
6.4B.4.1:   INDUSTRIAL USER SURVEY:
   A.   The industrial user survey shall be completed in order to ensure that
said non-residential users of the POTW of the City adhere to and comply with
the restrictions and prohibitions pertaining to pretreatment standards of
wastes discharged into the POTW of the City set forth in Section
6.4B.5 , spill control of raw materials, intermediates and waste as set forth
in Section
6.4B.6.5 , and to facilitate the city’s investigation of apparent or suspected
violations thereof. The requirements are as follows:
      1.   All existing or new non-residential users shall complete and submit
an industrial user survey on a form provided by the City when requested by the
City.
      3.   All users defined above that fail to complete and submit to the City
an industrial user survey shall be in violation of the provisions of this
section and shall be subject to all of the applicable penalties thereof,
including but expressly not limited to the revocation of all permits and
approvals previously granted to the commercial or industrial user in question
for the discharge of sewage or wastewater into the POTW of the City.
   B.   Food Service Establishment (FSE) Survey. The FSE survey shall ensure
that FSEs discharging the POTW of the City adhere to and comply with the
restrictions and prohibitions pertaining to pretreatment standards of wastes
discharged into the POTW of the City set forth in Section
6.4B.5.2 ; to control spills of raw materials, intermediates and waste as set
forth in Section
6.4B.6.5 ; and shall facilitate the city's investigation of apparent or
suspected violations thereof. The requirements for the FSE survey are as
follows:
      1.   All existing or new FSEs shall complete and submit a FSE survey on a
form provided by the City when requested by the City.
      2.   The FSE survey shall cover at a minimum information that includes a
description of processes, kitchen fixtures, water usage and wastewater
characteristics, plus grease usage and management for the facility. This
information will be required to be submitted and will be evaluated by the City
for determination of the requirement to issue a general FSE discharge permit or
FSEP per Section
6.4B.8.2 .D.
      3.   All new FSEs that establish a new account for sanitary sewer service
or those that transfer an existing FSE account in the City shall file a
completed FSE survey with the City as a condition to the establishment of such
new or transferred sanitary sewer service account or connection to the POTW of
the City.
      4.   The FSE survey shall contain a statement affirming the truth,
completeness and correctness of information submitted signed by an authorized
representative of the user as defined in Section 6.4B.1.6. In the event that
the City obtains the information through a site inspection(s) but the initial
survey is not signed by an authorized representative, the City may proceed to
determine classification and permit as appropriate based on the information
obtained at the site.
      5.   All users defined above that fail to complete and submit to the City
a FSE survey within the time period provided by the City shall be in violation
of the provisions of this section and shall be subject to all of the applicable
penalties thereof, including but expressly not limited to the revocation of all
permits and approvals previously granted to the user in question for the
discharge of sewage or wastewater into the POTW of the City. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-
16-2024)
6.4B.4.2: AFFIRMATION TO SURVEY:
   A.   The City will determine the frequency an affirmation to the industrial
user or FSE survey needs to be submitted.
   B.   Any user, defined in Section
6.4B.4.1 , having filed an industrial user or FSE survey where the information
remains true, complete and correct in all respects may be allowed to submit a
statement that the information remains current in lieu of submitting a new
survey. The statement is required to be signed by an authorized representative
of the firm.
   C.   All users defined above that fail to file an affirmation with the City
shall be in violation of the provisions of this section and shall be subject to
all of the applicable penalties thereof, including but expressly not limited to
the revocation of all permits and approvals previously granted to the
commercial or industrial user in question for the discharge of sewage or
wastewater into the POTW of the City. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.4.3: REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS:
Any user, defined in Section
6.4B.4.1 , that makes any changes determined to be substantial as defined in
Section
6.4B.9.7  shall report said changes as required in Section 6.4B.9.7. The user
may be required to file an updated survey as a result of changed conditions.
(Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.4.4: ADDITIONAL SURVEY INFORMATION:
   A.   After review of the industrial user survey is completed per Section
6.4B.4.1 , all non-residential users that the City has defined to have the
potential to be defined a Significant Industrial User (SIU) or a Non-
Significant Regulated User (NSRU) shall be required to complete and file a more
detailed wastewater survey on a form provided by the City. At a minimum, a
description of processes, water usage and wastewater characteristics for the
facility will be required to be submitted. This information will be evaluated
by the City for determination of the requirement to issue an individual
wastewater discharge permit or a general wastewater discharge permit per
Sections
6.4B.7  and
6.4B.8 .
   B.   Categorical Industrial Users (CIUs) may be required to complete a
category specific survey that identifies sub-processes and processes performed
at the site in order to define which sub-processes and processes are regulated
by an USEPA Effluent Guideline category. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.5: GENERAL DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS:
6.4B.5.1: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged to any
facility served by the City, without having first complied with the terms of
this chapter.
   B.   Users must meet the most stringent applicable requirements and
limitations at all times either as set forth in this chapter, or in individual
wastewater discharge permits, Federal Pretreatment Standards as established by
40 CFR Part 403, or State of Illinois Standards as codified in 35 IAC 307. Said
users shall provide the necessary wastewater treatment to achieve compliance
with all National Categorical Pretreatment Standards and requirements within
the time limitations as specified by the Federal Pretreatment Regulations, and
with any other pretreatment standards including local limits and requirements,
by applicable deadlines.
   C.   Each FSE shall provide wastewater pretreatment and implement best
management practices as necessary to comply with this section and shall achieve
compliance with all local limits and the prohibitions set out in Sections
6.4B.5.2  and
6.4B.5.5 , respectively, within the time limitations specified by the
Pretreatment Coordinator. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.5.2: PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS:
These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether or not they
are subject to a categorical pretreatment standard or any other National, state
or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   A.   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly to the City POTW, any pollutant or wastewater contaminant which will
pass through, cause interference with, inhibition of, or cause a potential
problem to the operation of the POTW;
   B.   No user shall increase the use of potable or process water in any other
way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment in order to achieve compliance with a pretreatment standard
or requirement except where expressly authorized to do so by an applicable
pretreatment standard or requirements and in a wastewater discharge permit. The
City may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to meet
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when the
imposition of mass limitations is appropriate; and
   C.   No user shall introduce, or cause to be contributed, either directly or
indirectly, any of the following described pollutants, substances or wastewater
into the POTW:
      1.   any unpolluted water including, but not limited to, uncontaminated
non-contact cooling water, stormwater, surface and groundwaters, subsurface
drainage, roof run-off, spill contaminant area run-off, footing drains or
construction drainage except as specifically permitted by the Pretreatment
Coordinator;
      2.   any pollutant which by reason of their nature or quantity, are or
may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction, to cause safety hazards,
fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the facilities or
personnel of the City, or to the operation of City POTW. Materials considered
in this regard are those with a closed cup flashpoint of less than one hundred
and forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) or sixty degrees Celsius (60°C) using the
test methods specified in 40 CFR Section 261.21;
      3.   Any solid, solid waste or viscous substance that will cause
obstruction to the flow in a sewer or the POTW, or other Interference to the
operation of the POTW. Prohibited materials include but are not limited to:
waste cooking oil, grease, grease interceptor wastes, garbage with particles
greater than one-half inch (0.5 in.) in any direction, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, paper dishes, cups,
milk containers, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone
or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent
grains or hops, paper, wood, plastics, residues from gas, tar or asphalt,
residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oils, mud or glass
grinding or polishing waste, fatty acids or esters of fatty acids, or any
material which can be disposed of as trash;
      4.   Any noxious or malodorous solids, liquids, or gases, which either
singly or by their interaction are capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life, or to Interfere with, inhibit or cause a potential problem to
any operation of POTW, including but not limited to, prevention of entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair;
      5.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems or which necessitate the City taking special measures to
counteract and/or alleviate the impact of the pollutant(s);
      6.   Any wastewater containing substances in sufficient quantity to
interfere with the POTW;
      7.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction, to injure, interfere with or cause a potential
problem to any POTW treatment processes or facilities, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, or to exceed limitation as set forth in the existing act, or
the act as it may be amended;
      8.   Any wastewater having a temperature which shall inhibit biological
activity or cause interference in the city’s POTW facilities, but in no case
heat in such a quantity that the influent temperature at the POTW will exceed
forty degrees Celsius (40°C) or one hundred and four degrees Fahrenheit
(104°F);
      9.   Any Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or higher than 10.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment or personnel in the POTW. The pH limits are Instantaneous
Limits that shall be met at all times, and are not subject to averaging;
      10.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) or sixty-five degrees Celsius.(65°C);
      11.   Substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty-two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred and fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (150°F) zero degrees or Celsius (0°C) and sixty-five degrees Celsius
(65°C);
      12.   any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants, released in a
discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration (including any slug
load), either singly or by interaction with other pollutants which may cause
interference with, inhibit, or cause a potential problem at the POTW;
      13.   Ammonia nitrogen in amounts that would cause a violation of the
water quality standards of the receiving waters of the POTW;
      14.   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, aqueous
firefighting foam or other substances which may cause excessive foaming in the
collection system or the treatment process that result in POTW interferences
and/or pass through and/or is shown to inhibit the nitrification process.
Wastes prohibited in this section shall not be processed or stored in such a
manner that they could be discharged to the POTW;
      15.   Additives for the purpose of emulsifying or biologically/chemically
treating FOG for grease remediation or as a supplement to Interceptor
maintenance that have a content of enzymes, surfactants or solvents that is
greater than ten percent (10%) of the volume without the written consent of the
Pretreatment Coordinator;
      16.   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      17.   Any wastewater containing any organism, including viruses,
considered pathogenic and/or detrimental to POTW organisms other than by direct
excrement and any other wastes defined as medical wastes;
      18.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes,
except in compliance with City, state and Federal rules governing such
discharges;
      19.   Wastewater or wastes containing iron pickling wastes, concentrated
plating solutions or coating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      20.   Any leachate, groundwater remediation wastewater or waste material,
originating within the POTW service area, which does not meet discharge
limitations as set forth in this section or determined by this section except
at discharge points designated by the Pretreatment Coordinator;
      21.   All trucked or hauled waste;
      22.   Any biosolid, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
non-residential wastes;
      23.   Any solid, solid waste or viscous substances that have caused an
obstruction to the flow in a sewer that is eliminated by a professional service
or contractor;
      24.   Inert suspended solids (such as, but not limited to Fullers earth,
lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved solids (such as, but not
limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) that will cause a potential
problem or Interfere with POTW operations;
      25.   Any substance with color which is not removed in the treatment
processes, such as, but not limited to: dye waste, ink waste and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      26.   Any substances that inhibit the use of UV for disinfection
purposes;
      27.   Wastewater or wastes containing substances which are not amenable
to treatment or reduction by the POTW treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the POTW effluent cannot meet
the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the
receiving waters;
      28.   Any substance or combination of substances which shall cause the
POTW facilities to be in violation of its NPDES permit(s), or to cause the
city’s POTW to violate receiving stream water quality and/or general effluent
discharge standards;
      29.   Any wastewater causing the POTW effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      30.   Any substance which may cause the city’s POTW effluent or
biosolids, to be unsuitable for reclamation and re-use, or interfere with the
reclamation processes. in no case shall a substance discharged to the city’s
POTW cause the City to be in noncompliance with any biosolids use or disposal
regulations developed under Section 405 of the Act; or any regulations
affecting biosolids use or disposal developed pursuant to the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, Solids Waste Disposal Act, Toxic Substance
Control Act, or any state; or local standards applicable to any biosolids
management methods either being used, or considered by the City.
      31.   Any waste containing items that could clog or damage the city’s
sanitary sewers, pump stations or POTW operation including but not limited to
the following items: disposable wipes, personal care wipes and products,
antibacterial wipes, feminine care products, diapers, baby wipes, wet/dry
cleaning cloths, rags, paper towels, napkins, string, zip ties, laundry dryer
sheets, and any plastic products.
   D.   Wastes prohibited in this section shall not be processed or stored in
such manner that they could be discharged or introduced to the POTW. All users
with prohibited wastes described in this section or those that have hazardous
wastes as defined in Section
6.4B.9.10  shall develop and implement an accidental discharge and slug control
plan as outlined in Section
6.4B.6.5 . The Pretreatment Coordinator may also determine an Accidental
Discharge and Slug Control Plan may be required for liquids and solids not
previously described on either list based on an evaluation of a site potential
to cause spills or slug loads to be introduced to the POTW. Notice requirements
shall be permanently posted at the user’s facility as provided in Sections
6.4B.6.5  and
6.4B.9.8 .
   E.   Requirements of Polluted Discharges - Discharge Locations.
      1.   Discharge of Polluting Substances From Fixtures into Storm Sewers
Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person or user to connect or cause to
be connected, any drain carrying, or to carry, any toilet, sink, basement,
septic tank, cesspool, industrial waste, or any fixture or device discharging
polluting substances, to any storm sewer or storm water drainage system within
the corporate limits of the City.
      2.   Discharge of Sanitary and Industrial Waste into Storm Drainage
Systems Prohibited, Nuisance Declared. For reasons of the protection of the
health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the City, is the declared
policy of the City to prohibit sanitary and industrial waste from entering into
the storm water drainage system, and any such connection to the storm water
drainage system is determined to be injurious to the public health and welfare
and is hereby declared a public nuisance.
      3.   Prohibited Discharges into Natural Outlets. It shall be unlawful to
discharge into any natural outlet within the City or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the required permits
have been obtained and is in compliance with the Clean Water Act.
   F.   Requirements of Unpolluted Discharges.
      1.   Discharge of Sump Pumps. A sump pump or sump pumps may discharge
into a storm sewer system or may discharge outside a building in an area that
will not cause downstream flooding and is located a minimum of five feet (5
ft.) from the property line. A shut-off value or similar device which can
divert the unpolluted discharge from the sump pump into the sanitary sewer
system, rather than into the storm system, or vice versa, shall not be
constructed or installed, and any construction or installation of same shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter. It shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this chapter if any person or user has on his premises or under
his control a sump pump, or any other pump, fixture, or gravity drain connected
to the sanitary sewer system which would allow the flow of unpolluted water
into the sanitary sewer system.
      2.   Discharge of Unpolluted Drainage into Storm Sewers or Natural
Outlets. Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the CE. Industrial cooling waters or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged, upon approval by the City and the IEPA if
appropriate, to a storm sewer or natural outlet. Discharges are required to be
in compliance with the Clean Water Act. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.5.3:   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
These pretreatment requirements shall apply to all non-residential users
subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards, promulgated by the
USEPA in accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act, currently
discharging or scheduled to discharge to the City. The National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards, found in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471
are hereby incorporated into this chapter.
Limits in categorical pretreatment standards shall apply to the discharge from
the process regulated by the standard or as otherwise specified by the
standard. compliance with National Categorical Pretreatment Standards is
mandatory.
   A.   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms of
either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
pretreatment coordinator may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in
accordance with paragraphs B and F below and 40 CFR Section 403.6(c) unless
specifically restricted by the categorical pretreatment standard. These
equivalent limitations calculated in accordance with the following requirements
are deemed pretreatment standards. Users shall be required to comply with the
equivalent limitations instead of the promulgated categorical standards from
which the equivalent limitations were derived. An alternative pretreatment
limit shall not be used if the alternative limit is below the analytical
detection limit for any of the regulated pollutants.
   B.   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the Pretreatment
Coordinator may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either
as mass of pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes
of calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual users.
      The City calculating equivalent mass-per-day limitations shall calculate
such limitations by multiplying the limits in the standard by the user’s
average rate of production. This average rate of production shall be based not
upon the designed production capacity, but rather upon a reasonable measure of
the user’s actual long-term daily production during a representative year. For
new sources, actual production shall be estimated using projected production.
      the City calculating equivalent concentration limitations shall calculate
such limitations by dividing the mass limitations by the average daily flow
rate of the user’s regulated process wastewater. This average daily flow rate
must be based upon a reasonable measure of the user’s actual long-term average
flow rate, such as the average daily flow rate during the representative year.
   C.   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is mixed
with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Pretreatment
Coordinator shall impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream
formula in 40 CFR Section 403.6(e) provided that the regulation allow the
wastewaters to be mixed and the user can supply the information necessary to
allow issuance of an alternative limit.
   D.   A user may request and obtain a variance from categorical pretreatment
standards from USEPA based on fundamentally different factors. The request must
comply with the procedural and substantive provisions in 40 CFR Section 403.13.
   E.   A user may request a net gross adjustment to a categorical pretreatment
standard in accordance with 40 CFR Section 403.15.
   F.   When a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms of
pollutant concentrations, a user may request that the City convert the limits
to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert concentration limits to
mass limits is within the discretion of the Pretreatment Coordinator. The City
may establish equivalent mass limits only if the user meets all the conditions
set forth in Sections 1(a) through 1(e) below.
      1.   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the User must:
         a.   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water conservation
methods and technologies that substantially reduce water during the term of its
individual wastewater discharge permit;
         b.   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the applicable categorical pretreatment standard, and
not have used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
         c.   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility’s actual
average daily flow rate for all wastestreams, based on data from a continuous
effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility’s long-term average
production rate. both the actual average daily flow rate and the long-term
average production rate must be representative of current operating conditions;
         d.   Not have daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant levels
that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not appropriate to
control the discharge; and
         e.   Have consistently complied with all applicable categorical
pretreatment standards during the period prior to the user’s request for
equivalent mass limits.
      2.   A user subject to equivalent mass limits must:
         a.   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
         b.   Continue to record the facility’s flow rates through the use of a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
         c.   Continue to record the facility’s production rates and notify the
Pretreatment Coordinator whenever production rates are expected to vary by more
than twenty percent (20%) from its baseline production rates determined in
paragraph 1(c) of this section. upon notification of a revised production rate,
the Pretreatment Coordinator will reassess the equivalent mass limit and revise
the limit as necessary to reflect changed conditions at the facility; and
         d.   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies as those implemented pursuant to paragraph 1(a) of
this Section so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass limit.
      3.   When developing equivalent mass limits, the Pretreatment
Coordinator:
         a.   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the
actual average daily flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the user by the
concentration-based daily maximum and monthly average standard for the
applicable categorical pretreatment standard and the appropriate unit
conversion factor;
         b.   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess the
equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit as necessary to reflect changed
conditions at the facility; and
         c.   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent
individual wastewater discharge permit terms if the user’s actual average daily
flow rate was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of water
conservation methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow rates
used in the original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not based on
the use of dilution as a substitute for treatment pursuant to Section
6.4B.5.2 .B. The user must be in compliance with Section
6.4B.16.3  regarding the prohibition of bypass.
   G.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may convert the mass limits of the
categorical pretreatment standards of 40 CFR Parts 414, 419 and 455 to
concentration limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to
individual users and document that dilution is not being substituted for
treatment as prohibited by Section
6.4B.5.2 .B. The conversion is at the discretion of the Pretreatment
Coordinator.
   H.   Once included in its wastewater discharge permit, the user must comply
with the equivalent limitations developed in this Section in lieu of the
promulgated categorical pretreatment standards from which the equivalent
limitations were derived. 1
   I.   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one (1) limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four (4)-day Average, limitations.
Where such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure
shall be used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent
limitations. 2
   J.   Any user operating under a permit incorporating equivalent mass or
concentration limits calculated from a production-based standard shall notify
the Pretreatment Coordinator within two (2) working days after the user has a
reasonable basis to know that the production level will significantly change
within the next calendar month. any user not notifying the Pretreatment
Coordinator of such anticipated change will be required to meet the mass or
concentration limits in its permit that were based on the original estimate of
the long term average production rate. Note: see 40 CFR Section 403.6(c)(9).
All Users that are subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards are
required to file reports as required in this chapter, signed by an Authorized
Representative per Sections
6.4B.9.3  and
6.4B.9.4 . These reports shall include all information that the City deems
necessary to make compliance determinations. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See 40 CFR Section 403.6 (c)(7).
2 2. See 40 CFR Section 403.6 (c)(8).
6.4B.5.4: STATE LIMITS:
   A.   All Users are subject to State Standards and requirements as defined in
35 Ill. Adm. Code (IAC) 307. Specifically, the Standard for Discharge of
mercury is as follows:
      1.   Mercury (35 IAC 307.1102).
         a.   Except as provided below, no person shall cause or allow the
concentration of mercury in any discharge to a publicly owned or publicly
regulated sewer system to exceed the following level, subject to the averaging
rule contained in 35 IAC 304.104(a):
 
CONSTITUENT STORET NUMBER CONCENTRATION
                          mg/l
Mercury     71900         0.0005
 
         b.   It shall be an exception to subsection a. if the discharge is to
a publicly owned or publicly regulated sewer system which is required to meet a
limitation less stringent than the 0.0005 mg/l mercury concentration in which
case the discharge limitation shall be the same as that applicable to the
publicly owned or regulated sewer system to which it discharges.
         c.   It shall be an exception to subsection a. if all the following
conditions are met:
            (1)   The discharger does not use mercury; or, the discharger uses
mercury and this use cannot be eliminated; or, the discharger uses mercury only
in chemical analysis or in laboratory or other equipment and takes reasonable
care to avoid contamination of wastewater;
            (2)   The discharge mercury concentration is less than 0.003 mg/l,
as determined by application of the averaging rules of 35 IAC 304.104(a);
            (3)   The discharger is providing the best degree of treatment
consistent with technological feasibility, economic reasonableness and sound
engineering judgment. This may include no treatment for mercury; and
            (4)   The discharger has an inspection and maintenance program
likely to reduce or to prevent an increase in the level of mercury discharges.
         d.   The discharge of wastes from medicinal or therapeutic use of
mercury, exclusive of laboratory use, shall be exempt from the limitations of
subsection a. if all the following conditions are met:
            (1)   The total discharge is less than two hundred and twenty-seven
grams (227 g.) or one-half pound (0.5 lb.) as mercury (Hg) in any year;
            (2)   This discharge is to a public sewer system; and
            (3)   The discharge does not, alone or in conjunction with other
sources, causes the effluent from the sewer system or POTW to exceed 0.0005 mg/
l of mercury.
         e.   No person shall cause or allow any discharge of mercury to a
publicly owned or publicly regulated sewer system which, alone or in
combination with other sources, causes a violation by the sewer treatment plant
discharge of the water quality standard of 35 IAC 302 for mercury applicable in
the receiving stream.
         f.   For purposes of permit issuance the IEPA may consider application
of the exception of subsection (b) or (c) to determine compliance with this
Section. The IEPA may impose permit conditions necessary or required to assure
continued application of the exception. When subsection (b) or (c) applies, the
IEPA may impose an effluent limitation in the permit which allows the discharge
of a concentration of mercury greater than 0.0005 mg/l but not more than 0.003
mg/l. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.5.5: LOCAL LIMITS:
The following pollutant limits are established to protect against pass through
and interference.
   A.   Non-Toxic Pollutants.
 
POLLUTANT                                           CONCENTRATI ON (mg/l)
                                                    Instantaneous Daily Maximum
Oil and Grease - at non-food service establishment  100
(FSE) or food manufacturing sites
Oil and Grease - at FSE                             200
 
   B.   Toxic Pollutants. No user shall discharge any wastewater containing
concentrations greater than the daily maximum local limits as set forth below
into any sewers that connect either directly or indirectly to the POTW.
POLLUTANT CONCENTRATION (mg/l)
          Daily Maximu m Instantaneo us
POLLUTANT              CONCENTRATION (mg/l)
                       Daily Maximu m Instantaneo us
Chromium               12.5
Copper                 1.1
Cyanide                               1.3
Lead                   5.8
Mercury                0.0005
(see Section 6.4B.5.4)
Nickel                 1.1
Zinc                   4.8
 
      All concentrations for metallic substances are for total metals unless
indicated otherwise.
   C.   FSE Twenty-five Percent (25%) Requirement. The City reserves the right
to apply a twenty-five percent (25%) requirement at the discharge side of the
external GI prior to mixing with any other wastewater from the contributing
FSE’s property in lieu of the limits listed in Section
6.4B.5.5 .A above. The last section of an external GI at an FSE shall be
measured to determine that the total volume of the GI being used for any food
derived solids to settle or accumulate plus the floatable grease-derived
materials that rise and accumulate, identified as a solids blanket and grease
cap respectively, is less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total design
hydraulic depth as measured from the effluent discharge pipe to the bottom
(“twenty-five percent (25%) requirement”). The City may also apply the twenty-
five percent (25%) requirement for external GI that are used in non-FSE
locations such as an automobile service, repair and dispensing properties.
   D.   The City will apply the local limits found in Sections
6.4B.5.5 .A and B above normally at the end-of-pipe point where the non-
residential waste is discharged to the municipal sewer system.
   E.   The City reserves the right to establish requirements, by ordinance or
in an individual or general wastewater discharge permit, to require control
over the quantities and rates of discharge from any user.
   F.   the City reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in a
wastewater discharge permit, mass limitations rather than concentration
limitations on discharges particularly if users are using dilution to meet
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when the
imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
   G.   The City reserves the right to set specific limits for those pollutants
not identified in Sections
6.4B.5.5 .A or B on a case by case basis for impacts caused to the POTW
including but not limited to interference, potential problem, pass through and
prevention of beneficial biosolids re-use. Those limits shall be set forth in a
wastewater discharge permit per Section
6.4B.8 .
      1.   Local limits for additional Pollutants not identified in Sections
505.A or B will be noticed to the permit holder a minimum of thirty (30)
calendar days prior to the effective date of the wastewater discharge permit.
in the event that the City receives written comment on said limit during the
comment period, the limit will take effect within sixty (60) calendar days of
the public notice date to allow review and comment by the City.
   H.   The City may develop best management practices (BMPs), by ordinance or
in Individual or general wastewater discharge permits, to implement local
limits and the requirements of Section
6.4B.5.2 .
   I.   Any user discharging pollutants such as but not limited to: oils and
grease, BOD or TSS to the city’s POTW that cause the City to alter its method
of wastewater treatment or biosolid disposal to a more costly method shall be
assessed the differential cost between the more costly method of treatment and
the less costly method of treatment. Such costs shall only be assessed upon
approval of the City Council. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.5.6: RIGHT OF REVISION:
   A.   The City reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in individual
or general wastewater discharge permits, more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this
chapter. The specific limitations on discharge listed in Section
6.4B.5.5  are derived from the Maximum Allowable Industrial Loading (MAIL)
calculation. The MAILs are allocated only to those IUs, at the city’s
discretion, that contribute the regulated pollutant and all remaining IUs are
held to either the background concentration or slightly higher than background
but lower than the specific discharge limit. In no case shall the total of all
allocations exceed the MAIL.
   B.   The City will maintain a reserve of the maximum allowable headworks
pollutant loading for each pollutant for new industries or increase with
existing industries. The City will recalculate the maximum concentrations from
time to time using site specific data taking into consideration revisions to
state and Federal regulations that may impact the calculations. (Ord. 24-O-39,
7-16-2024)
6.4B.5.7: MONITORING FACILITIES:
   A.   Sampling Manhole Applicability.
      1.   All non-residential users are required to install a sampling manhole
for each separate discharge in the building sewer in accordance with the plans
and specifications approved by the City and Section
6.4B.3.6 .
         a.   When required by the City, a SIU or Non-Significant Regulated
Users (NSRU), that does not have a unique sampling chamber at end-of-pipe,
shall install a monitoring manhole or sampling chamber for use as the
regulation location of local limits in the building sewer in accordance with
plans and specifications approved by the City.
         b.   When required by the City, a CIU shall install a monitoring
manhole or sampling chamber for use as the regulation location of the
categorically regulated discharge in the building sewer in accordance with
plans and specifications approved by the City. This sampling chamber may be
required to be installed within the building and may be in addition to an end-
of-pipe manhole.
      2.   The City reserves the right to apply said local limits in Section
6.4B.5.5 .A and B at an end-of process discharge location that connects to the
POTW sewer system in the event that:
         a.   A unique sampling manhole at end-of-pipe is not available;
         b.   A more representative sample can be taken of a process batch
discharge even though an end-of-pipe manhole exists;
         c.   A more representative sample can be taken at the end-of-process
location than the end-of-pipe location as a result of impacts from dilute
wastestreams;
         d.   An end-of process location is used because the IU is unable to
provide adequate flow documentation to use a combined wastestream formula.
      3.   In the event that a suitable sampling manhole does not exist and no
end-of-process discharge sampling location exists, the “sampling facility”
shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to
the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   B.   Wastewater Monitoring and/or Flow Measurement Facility Operation and
Maintenance.
      1.   Such facilities will be installed and maintained at all times at the
user’s expense. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good
working order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that the sample
results are unrepresentative of its discharge. installation will be consistent
with the requirements of Section
6.4B.3.6 .
      2.   The manhole or chamber located on a building sewer discharge located
in a dedicated easement that is easily accessible to representatives of the
City twenty-four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week.
      3.   The manhole or chamber at a discharge location within the building
shall be accessible to representatives of the City during normal user operating
hours.
      4.   Metered water supply may be used to determine wastewater flow if it
is substantiated to the City that the metered water supply and wastewater
quantities are approximately the same, or where an adjustment agreed to by the
City is made in the metered water supply to determine wastewater flow which is
documented through the use of sub-meters and/or production records. In the
event that the wastewater flow cannot be substantiated at any regulated
location, the user will be required to install flow monitoring consistent with
Section
6.4B.3.6 .
      5.   The sampling chamber, flow metering device, sampling equipment and
documentation of the frequency of sampling, sampling methods and analysis of
samples shall be subject, at any reasonable time, to inspection by the City.
(Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.5.8: MONITORING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applicability. At minimum, all SIU including CIU as well as NSRU are
required to sample based on the City monitoring frequency as stated in the
wastewater discharge permit. Other users are required to sample upon the
request of the City. The users shall pay the costs of sampling of its discharge
and the costs of analyses of its samples, whether or not the sampling and
analyses are done by the user or by the POTW.
   B.   Frequency.
      1.   All SIU including CIU with wastewater discharge permits must sample
their effluent consistent with the permit requirements and report the results
to the POTW at least twice yearly. The City may specify more frequent reporting
dependent of the frequency for those parameters specified in the user’s permit
and the City monitoring frequency defined in the city’s enforcement response
plan. The SIU may have the City conduct routine monitoring using an independent
laboratory. Sampling visits of this type will normally be unannounced.
      2.   Any NSRU with an individual or general wastewater discharge permit
shall sample their effluent and report the results to the POTW consistent with
the requirements of the wastewater discharge permit.
      3.   Batch discharges from non-residential users that have been approved
by the City will have sampling and analysis defined in an individual wastewater
discharge permit.
      4.   The City shall have the right to perform its own sampling at any
time at any location.
      5.   The City may resample a FSE within thirty (30) calendar days when a
violation of the twenty-five percent (25%) requirement as defined in Section
6.4B.5.5 .D is identified.
      6.   The City may initiate sampling and analyses at a greater frequency
as a result of a violation of any discharge permit limit, including cases where
hot spot maintenance issues or blockage to the sanitary sewer system has
occurred.
   C.   Sample Collection.
      1.   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on
data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the
period covered by the report, based on data that is representative of
conditions occurring during the entire sampling and reporting period as defined
in the wastewater discharge permit.
      2.   Except as indicated in Subsections C.3 and C.5 below, the user must
collect wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection
techniques.
      3.   In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the
Pretreatment Coordinator may authorize the use of time proportional sampling at
minimum collecting samples every fifteen (15) minutes during a twenty-four
(24)-hour workday; or a minimum of four (4) grab samples where the user
demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of the effluent
being discharged. a proportional number of samples shall be collected for
wastewater discharges less than twenty-four (24) hours.
      4.   Single grab samples may be required in the event of an infrequent
batch discharge or to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
      5.   Samples for fats, oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide,
hexavalent chromium, phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be
obtained using the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. Multiple
grab samples that are individually preserved as specified in 40 CFR Part 136
and appropriate USEPA guidance that are collected during a twenty-four (24)-
hour period may be composited prior to the analysis, as follows:
         a.   For, cyanide, hexavalent chromium, phenols, and sulfides:
multiple grab samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field;
         b.   For volatile organics and fats, oil and grease: multiple grab
samples may only be composited in the laboratory.
      6.   Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing
procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the
City, as appropriate.
   D.   Cost. The cost of City sampling and analyses for any monitoring will be
invoiced to the applicable user. If the City is not reimbursed for these costs
in a timely manner, the City has the right to place a lien against the property
owner for these costs. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.5.9: ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS:
all pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as part
of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136, unless otherwise
specified in an applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standard. If 40 CFR Part
136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in
question, or where the USEPA determines that the Part 136 sampling and
analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling
and analyses shall be performed using validated analytical methods or any other
applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested
by the Pretreatment Coordinator or other parties approved by USEPA. (Ord. 24-O-
39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.5.10: PROTECTION OF CITY SAMPLING AND FLOW METERING EQUIPMENT FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is owned or contracted by the City. Any person violating this provision shall
be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord.
24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.6: GENERAL DISCHARGE COMPLIANCE:
6.4B.6.1: APPLICABILITY:
Each user that discharges non-residential source waste shall provide wastewater
treatment and best management practices as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in Section
6.4B.5  within the time limitations specified by USEPA, the state, or the
Pretreatment Coordinator, whichever is more stringent. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-
2024)
6.4B.6.2: PRETREATMENT FACILITIES:
Any pretreatment facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided,
operated, and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans describing such
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the Pretreatment
Coordinator for review, and shall be acceptable to the Pretreatment Coordinator
before such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans and operating
procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the
City under the provisions of this chapter.
All users are required to comply with IEPA permitting requirements. Users shall
obtain all necessary construction-operating permits from the IEPA prior to the
City connection and/or discharge permit(s) being issued. IEPA will make the
determination of actual permitting requirements based on changes in the
wastewater volume or characteristics generated at the user site. The City will
track and parallel this IEPA permitting process. No sources of non-residential
wastewater will be allowed to discharge to City POTW until all permitting
requirements have been satisfied. such pretreatment facilities shall be under
the control and direction of an IEPA-certified wastewater operator.
Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation
shall be reported to the City and IEPA prior to the user’s initiation of the
changes. users shall obtain all additional construction-operating permits from
IEPA and the City for the changes prior to discharge. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.6.3: ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES:
At minimum, the City may require the additional pretreatment measures defined
below. The City reserves the right to make unannounced inspections of any
additional pretreatment measures during normal business hours whether the user
has been issued an individual or general wastewater discharge permit or not.
   A.   Whenever deemed necessary, the Pretreatment Coordinator may require
users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that
certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or
consolidate points of discharge, separate domestic sewage waste streams from
industrial waste streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to
protect the POTW and determine the user's compliance with the requirements of
this chapter.
   B.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may require any person or user discharging
into the POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense,
a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow.
The City may issue an individual or general wastewater discharge permit solely
for flow equalization.
   C.   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.6.4: BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) PLAN:
   A.   FSE’s are required to develop, implement and maintain Best Management
Practices (BMP) plans that include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Twenty-four (24)-hour emergency contact information for FSE;
      2.   Business owner contact information FSE;
      3.   Proper storage of unused cooking oil;
      4.   Segregation, collection, and proper storage of waste cooking oil;
      5.   Disposal of food waste into the trash or garbage disposal;
      6.   Installation of drain screens;
      7.   Wipe-up grease spills before using water;
      8.   Employee training within ninety (90) calendar days of initiation and
twice each calendar year thereafter;
      9.   Grease Interceptor maintenance;
      10.   Kitchen exhaust filter maintenance;
      11.   Record keeping requirements;
      12.   Notifications required for spills or slug loads changes; and
      13.   Notices and signage advising employees in the language used in the
kitchen.
      All FSE’s that meet the criteria defined in Section
6.4B.6.1  are required to develop and implement a BMP plan regardless whether
such FSE are regulated by a wastewater discharge permit or not.
   B.   Each FSE meeting the criteria in Section
6.4B.6.1  is to provide ready documentation as follows that the provisions of
the BMP plan are being implemented:
      1.   Specifics of documentation.
         a.   Site diagram showing location of all containers holding unused or
spent yellow grease;
         b.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental
discharge to storm or sanitary sewers. Such procedures include, but are not
limited to, inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer
of materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site runoff,
worker training and building of containment structures or equipment;
         c.   Location of notice/signs posted in conspicuous places advising
employees in English and the language of common use whom to call in the event
of a spill, accidental discharge of prohibited materials, slug discharge or a
bypass of any part of a pretreatment system; and
         d.   Off-site emergency (twenty-four (24)-hour) telephone number, and
backup telephone number.
      2.   Notification Procedure. The BMP plan shall contain procedures for
immediately notifying the Pretreatment Coordinator of any accidental or slug
discharge of any raw materials or recycled oil to either the sanitary or storm
sewer consistent with the requirements in Section
6.4B.9.8 .
   C.   The City may require the submittal of BMP plans and documentation of
procedures required in this section. Review of such plans and documentation of
procedures by the City shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to
modify the user’s facility or BMP plan and procedures as necessary to meet all
requirements of this chapter. Review by the City does not constitute an
approval of a BMP Plan and procedures, and the City and its designee(s) are not
to be construed as responsible for the actions of the user and any impacts the
user may cause as a result of a spill or slug discharge. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-
2024)
6.4B.6.5: ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE AND SLUG CONTROL PLAN:
   A.   All permitted non-residential users are required to develop, implement
and maintain best management practices in the form of an accidental discharge
and slug control plan hereafter referred to as spill plan. all non-residential
users that meet the below criteria are required to develop and implement a
spill plan regardless whether that user is regulated by an individual or
general wastewater discharge permit or not.
      1.   Chemicals (raw materials, chemical intermediates, wastes to be
recycled, final products, or utility chemicals) that total or exceed two
hundred and fifty gallons (250 gal.) at or on its site;
      2.   Prohibited discharge materials as defined in Section
6.4B.5.2  at or on its site; or
      3.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section
6.4B.9.10  at or on its site; or
      4.   Been defined by the pretreatment coordinator to have a need to
control slug discharges.
   B.   The spill plan, which is required to be submitted to the City for
review, shall address the following, at a minimum:
      1.   Specifics of Spill Plan.
         a.   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
         b.   Description of stored chemicals, including quantity of chemicals
and type and number of storage containers;
         c.   Site diagram showing location of all tanks holding greater than
or equal to two hundred and fifty gallons (250 gal.) or areas containing eight
(8) drums or more of raw materials, prohibited wastes, wastes to be recycled,
hazardous wastes or final product. Identification and location of all liquid
materials is mandatory;
         d.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response. Building containment structures or production equipment changes are
considered procedures to prevent adverse spills. If containment structures are
connected to the sanitary sewer, a valve normally left in a closed position is
required;
         e.   Location of notice/signs posted in conspicuous places advising
employees in English and the language of common use whom to call in the event
of a spill, accidental discharge of prohibited materials, slug discharge or a
bypass of any part of a pretreatment system; and
         f.   Emergency telephone number (twenty-four (24)-hour) off-site and
backup telephone number. If the spill plan has been submitted to the City, any
change in the telephone numbers should be submitted to the City within five (5)
working days when revised.
      2.   Notification Procedure. The spill plan shall contain procedures for
immediately notifying the Pretreatment Coordinator of any accidental or slug
discharge, as required by Section
6.4B.9.8 .
      3.   Documentation. The spill plan shall contain a sample of the
documentation maintained at the site that:
         a.   Ensures that all employees who are in a position to cause,
discover, or observe such discharge are advised of the emergency notification
procedures with annual training; and
         b.   Such logs to verify inspection and maintenance procedures to
prevent adverse impacts and confirm that said procedures are being performed on
a regular basis. At minimum, logs are required to verify valves in containment
structures, if present, are closed.
   C.   Review of such plans and operating procedures by the City shall not
relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the user’s facility or spill
plan as necessary to meet all requirements of this chapter. review by the City
does not constitute an approval of a spill plan and the City and its designee
(s) are not to be construed as responsible for the actions of the user and any
impacts the user may cause as a result of a spill or slug load.
   D.   At least once every two (2) years the Pretreatment Coordinator shall
evaluate whether each SIU needs a revision to its spill plan. The Pretreatment
Coordinator may require any user to submit at a frequency less than two (2)
years such spill plan or require modification of an existing spill plan based
on changes that have occurred at the site or in response to an incident that
had the potential to impact the POTW.
      In alternate years, the Pretreatment Coordinator shall evaluate whether
each NSRU is required to file a revision to its spill plan based on changes
that have occurred at the site or in response to an incident that had the
potential to impact the POTW. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.6.6: CLOSURE PLAN:
   A.   Any non-residential user meeting the requirements of Section
6.4B.6.5 .A that determines it will cease operations permanently, or if some of
the processes that classify the user as significant are closed, the user shall
file a written closure plan with the City. The closure plan shall be submitted
ten (10) working days prior to the initiation of the plan and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      1.   A description of each wastewater generating process that will be
closed;
      2.   A description of how the facility will be closed and the extent of
operations during the closure period;
      3.   An inventory and estimate of the volume of all process wastewater,
chemicals, and hazardous waste on site. A description of the methods for
disposal, including procedures for removing, transporting, treating, storing,
or disposing of all waste and identifying all off-site waste management
facilities to be used;
      4.   A schedule of the closure activities indicating the time required to
complete each closure step; and
      5.   Additional monitoring scheduled that will identify compliance with
pretreatment standards during the closure operations. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.7: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND APPLICATION:
6.4B.7.1: WASTEWATER INFORMATION AND ANALYSIS:
When requested by the Pretreatment Coordinator, a user must submit information
on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within thirty (30) calendar
days of the request. The Pretreatment Coordinator is authorized to prepare a
form for this purpose and may periodically require Users to update this
information. The Pretreatment Coordinator may also prepare specialized forms
for various business types and functions. Information that may be required will
be consistent with that identified in Sections
6.4B.4  and
6.4B.7.5 . (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.7.2: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT AUTHORITY AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Individual wastewater discharge permit issued to Significant Industrial
Users (SIUs) which includes Categorical Industrial Users (CIUs). No SIU,
including any CIU, shall discharge wastewater to the POTW without first
obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit from the Pretreatment
Coordinator except that a SIU, including any CIU, that has filed a timely
application pursuant to this chapter may continue to discharge for the time
period specified therein.
   B.   General wastewater discharge permit issued to SIU and CIU. At the
discretion of the Pretreatment Coordinator, the City may use general wastewater
discharge permits to control SIU or CIU discharges to the POTW if the following
conditions are met:
      1.   Involve the same or substantially similar types of operations;
      2.   Discharge the same types of waste;
      3.   Require the same effluent limitations or BMPs;
      4.   Require the same or similar monitoring and/or reporting
requirements; and
      5.   In the opinion of the Pretreatment Coordinator, are more
appropriately controlled under a general permit than under individual
wastewater discharge permits.
      6.   General wastewater discharge permits are not available where the
facility is subject to production-based categorical pretreatment standards or
categorical pretreatment standards expressed as mass of pollutant discharged
per day or for industrial users whose limits are based on the combined
wastestream formula or net/gross calculations (40 CFR Parts 403.6(e) and
403.15).
   C.   Other Wastewater Discharge Permits. The Pretreatment Coordinator may
require other non-residential users to obtain either individual or general
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter. The wastewater discharge permit will define that holders of permits
issued under this section shall not be classified as SIUs. Non-residential
users with wastewater discharge permits in this class may include but are not
limited to:
      1.   Any user that has been determined to be a non-significant CIU as
defined in Section
6.4B.1.6 ;
      2.   Any user that has been determined not to be a SIU as defined in
Section
6.4B.1.6  that the Pretreatment Coordinator requires to be regulated by
wastewater discharge permit;
      3.   Any user subject to national categorical pretreatment standards that
opts not to discharge pollutants shall obtain a zero process wastewater
discharge permit;
      4.   Any user that is a non-categorical zero process wastewater
discharger that the Pretreatment Coordinator determines shall be permitted;
      5.   Non-Significant Regulated Users (NSRU) as defined below. In the
event that the City operates more than one (1) POTW, the percentage shall be
determined based on the plant to which the user discharges rather than the
total capacity of all of the City plants:
         a.   NSRU that discharge a process wastewater flow greater than or
equal to one-half percent (0.5%) of the POTW’s design dry-weather hydraulic
capacity, or five thousand gallons (5,000 gal.) per day, whichever is smaller;
         b.   NSRU that discharge more than or equal to one-half percent (0.5%)
of the design dry-weather organic treatment capacity of the POTW ;
         c.   NSRU that discharge one-half percent (0.5%) of the maximum
allowable headworks loading for any pollutant regulated by a local limit
developed in accordance with Section
6.4B.5.5 ; or
         d.   NSRU that intermittently discharge any individual batch or
batches that would meet the criteria in a, b, or c above when discharged or
otherwise has the potential to discharge a slug load to the POTW;
      6.   Non-residential users that have devices installed to remove oils,
grease and sand;
      7.   Food Service Establishments (FSE);
      8.   Non-residential users required to eliminate or control specified
pollutants from their wastestream through the development and implementation of
a BMP plan.
   D.   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual or general
wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and
subject the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in Section
6.4B.13  through
6.4B.15 . Obtaining an individual or general wastewater discharge permit does
not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all Federal and state
pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
Federal, state, and local law. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.7.3: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: EXISTING
CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Any SIU or CIU required to obtain an Individual or general wastewater
discharge permit who was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the
effective date of this chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in
the future, shall, within ninety (90) calendar days after said date, apply to
the Pretreatment Coordinator for the appropriate wastewater discharge permit in
accordance with Section
6.4B.7.5 , and shall not cause or allow Discharges to the POTW to continue
after one hundred eighty (180) calendar days of the effective date of this
chapter except in accordance with a wastewater discharge permit issued by the
Pretreatment Coordinator.
   B.   Any existing non-SIU or non-CIU that is required to obtain individual
or general wastewater discharge permits shall file an application within the
time frame required in a notification sent by the Pretreatment Coordinator.
   C.   When required by the City, a FSE shall not discharge, or cause to
discharge any wastewater from FSE directly or indirectly into the sewer system
without first obtaining a FSE general wastewater discharge permit. The City
will implement the FSE permit process by issuing a survey provided by Section
6.4B.4.1 .B. The survey will serve as the discharge application. Any FSE that
submits a survey in the timeframe required by the City will be deemed to have
complied with the permit requirements during the implementation of this
program. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.7.4: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: NEW
CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Any SIU or CIU, who proposes to begin or recommence discharging into
the POTW must obtain an individual or general wastewater discharge permit prior
to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this
individual or general wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with Section
6.4B.7.5 , must be filed at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to the date
upon which any discharge will begin or recommence pending review by the
Pretreatment Coordinator.
   B.   Any non-SIU or non-CIU who proposes to begin or recommence discharging
into the POTW that is required to obtain an Individual or general wastewater
discharge permit must obtain such permit prior to the beginning or recommencing
of such discharge or operations in the case of a zero process discharger, in
accordance with Section
6.4B.7.5 . An application for this individual or general wastewater discharge
permit must be filed at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to the date upon
which any discharge or operations will begin or recommence pending review by
the Pretreatment Coordinator.
   C.   When required by the City, a FSE that proposes a new connection is
required to obtain a FSE general wastewater discharge permit in accordance with
Section
6.4B.7.5 . (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.7.5: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION
CONTENTS:
   A.   Individual Application Requirement. All Users required to obtain an
Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit or Zero Process Wastewater Discharge
Permit must submit a permit application. Incomplete or inaccurate applications
will not be processed and will be returned to the User for revision.
   B.   Individual Application Contents. The Pretreatment Coordinator may
require all Users to submit as part of an application all or some of the
following information:
      1.   All information required by Sections
6.4B.4.1 ,
6.4B.4.3  and
6.4B.4.4 ;
      2.   Identifying and contact information for the site including name and
address of the facility, the name of the operator and owner as well as contact
information for the Authorized Representative and daily on-site contact.
      3.   Description of Operations.
         a.   A brief description of the nature of the activities, services,
production, and plant processes on the premises. Include each product produced
by type, amount, process or processes, and a general rate of production.
         b.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
         c.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day) including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, Discharged
to the POTW;
      4.   Time and duration of Discharges with an estimate of the average
daily and maximum Flow;
      5.   Waste Characteristics. Information showing the nature and
concentration of the Discharge in relation to applicable Pretreatment Standards
and Local Limits;
      6.   Requests for a monitoring waiver for a Pollutant regulated as a
Categorical Pretreatment neither present nor expected to be present in the
Discharge based on 40 CFR Section 403.12(e)(2). Representative sampling and
analysis will be required to substantiate the request;
      7.   Plans and Diagrams.
         a.   Site plans/floor plans that show the footprint of the building
with an outline of major equipment similar to an emergency exit plan;
         b.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location
and elevation, and all points of Discharge; and
         c.   A diagram showing the location for monitoring the Discharge of
all wastes covered by the permit.
      8.   Environmental Permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      9.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Pretreatment
Coordinator to evaluate the Wastewater Discharge Permit application.
   C.   General Application Requirement. The Pretreatment Coordinator may
require all Users that are required to obtain a General Wastewater Discharge
Permit to submit an application on a form provided by the City which is
specific to the category regulated by the General Wastewater Discharge Permit.
The form may require but is not limited to contact information, production
processes, the types of wastes generated, and the location for monitoring all
wastes if regulated by the general permit. Where the Standard will require
compliance with a BMP or pollution prevention alternative, the User shall
submit documentation as required by the Pretreatment Coordinator.
   D.   General Application Requirement for Food Service Establishments (FSE).
The Pretreatment Coordinator may require all FSE that are required to obtain a
general FSE wastewater discharge permit to submit an application on a form
provided by the City which is specific to FSE. The form may require but is not
limited to contact information, general business information; facility
operation; kitchen fixtures; fats, oil and grease handling, kitchen clean-up
and water usage, grease interceptor or alternatives used, and sampling
locations. The City requires FSE to comply with a BMP and the FSE shall submit
documentation as required by the Pretreatment Coordinator.
   E.   Categorical Monitoring Waivers.
      1.   Authority. Pursuant to 40 CFR Section 403.12(e)(2)(v) and (vi), the
City may authorize an industrial user subject to a categorical pretreatment
standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated by a categorical
pretreatment standard if the user has demonstrated through sampling and other
technical factors that the pollutant is neither present nor expected to be
present in the discharge, or is present only at background levels from intake
water and without any increase in the pollutant due to activities of the user.
This waiver is not available to users whose concentration standards are derived
from mass standards or production based standards. This authorization is
subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to
be present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility
provided that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable
categorical pretreatment standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
         b.   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the individual wastewater discharge permit, but in no case
longer than five (5) years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver
before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent individual wastewater
discharge permit.
         c.   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical pretreatment standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical pretreatment standard.
      2.   Application Requirements.
         a.   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
user must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility’s process
wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes.
         b.   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with Section
6.4B.7.6 , and include the certification statement in Section
6.4B.7.6 .
         c.   Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a demonstration
that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from 40 CFR Part 136
with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used in the
analysis.
      3.   Documentation and Record Retention for CIU Monitoring Waivers. Any
grant of the monitoring waiver by the Pretreatment Coordinator must be included
as a condition in the user’s permit. The reasons supporting the waiver and any
information submitted by the user in its request for the waiver must be
maintained by the Pretreatment Coordinator for three (3) years after expiration
of the waiver. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.7.6: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION:
   A.   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the following certification statement:
      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified Personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those Persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   B.   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the Pretreatment Coordinator
prior to or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized
representative. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.7.7: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS:
The Pretreatment Coordinator will evaluate the data furnished by the User and
may require additional information. Within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt
of a complete Wastewater Discharge Permit application, the Pretreatment
Coordinator will determine whether or not to issue a Wastewater Discharge
Permit. The Pretreatment Coordinator may deny any application for a Wastewater
Discharge Permit. If the Pretreatment Coordinator fails to act within ninety
(90) calendar days, a request for permit application shall be deemed to be
denied. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.7.8: INTERMITTENT DISCHARGES AND CLEAN-UPS:
   A.   No person, firm or corporation shall discharge atypical waste,
contaminated waters from any non-domestic source or special waste or leachate
on an intermittent or one-time basis without first obtaining a connection
permit and wastewater discharge permit as provided in Sections
6.4B.3.3  and
6.4B.7.2 , respectively. The request to discharge and project description shall
be submitted on a form provided by the City. In the event that such waste will
be hauled to a discharge point designated by the City, the discharger shall
also comply with the provisions of Section
6.4B.7.7 .
   B.   An evaluation by the City shall be made to determine provisions
necessary to prevent the introduction of pollutants to the POTW which could:
      1.   Cause injury, interference or otherwise be incompatible with the
system or the use or disposal of biosolids;
      2.   Constitute a hazard to humans, animals or the environment; and/or
      3.   Cause pass through of pollutants into the receiving waters or the
atmosphere.
   Provisions may include site specific discharge rates, unique standards -
either concentration or mass based or both, special monitoring and/or
pretreatment requirements. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.8: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS:
6.4B.8.1: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION:
   A.   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a
specified time period, not to exceed five (5) years from the effective date of
the permit. An individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a
period less than five (5) years, at the discretion of the Pretreatment
Coordinator. Each individual wastewater discharge permit will indicate a
specific date upon which it will expire.
   B.   A general wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specific
time period, not to exceed five (5) years from the effective date of the
permit. The City will identify in the general wastewater discharge permit
whether or not the permittee is defined as a SIU.
   C.   A general FSE wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a specified
time period, not to exceed three (3) years from the effective date of the
permit. Each general FSE wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific
date upon which it will expire.
   D.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may extend a permit issued under Section
6.4B.8.1  A, B or C above with a duration of less than five (5) years to a
maximum duration of five (5) years upon written notification. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-
16-2024)
6.4B.8.2: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS:
A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Pretreatment Coordinator to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the POTW’s
effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate biosolids management and
disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   A.   Individual and general wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      1.   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      2.   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the City in accordance with Section
6.4B.8.5 , and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy
of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      3.   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
      4.   Requirements to control accidental spills and slug discharges, if
determined by the Pretreatment Coordinator to be necessary;
      5.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants or BMPs to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and
sample type based on Federal, state, and local law; and
      6.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable compliance
schedule. such schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that
required by applicable Federal, state, or local law.
   B.   An individual wastewater discharge permit for a CIU may contain the
process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant neither present
nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with Section
6.4B.7.5 .E. Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Pretreatment Coordinator
shall be included as a condition of the user’s permit.
   C.   Individual and general wastewater discharge permits may contain, but
need not be limited to, the following conditions:
      1.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      2.   Requirements for the installation of Pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to equalize, reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into
the POTW;
      3.   Requirements that allow the use of bypass of the pretreatment system
conditions consistent with 40 CFR Section 403.17 and Section
6.4B.16.3 ;
      4.   Requirements for the development and implementation of accidental
discharge and slug control plan or other special conditions including
management practices necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated,
or non-routine discharges;
      5.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      6.   Development and implementation of BMP plans to reduce the amount of
pollutants discharged to the POTW if the categorical standards do not already
require the implementation of a BMP plan;
      7.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      8.   Requirements for the zero discharge of process waste regulated by a
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard or local Standard;
      9.   Documentation of any monitoring waiver approved by the Pretreatment
Coordinator for categorically regulated pollutants found to be not present and
requirements to reinstitute monitoring in the event that a waived pollutant is
found to be present or is expected to be present because of changes that occur
in the user’s operation;
      10.   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable Federal and State Pretreatment Standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      11.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Pretreatment
Coordinator to ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and Federal laws,
rules, and regulations.
   D.   General Permits for FSE. The general wastewater discharge permit for
FSE will include GI requirements along with operation and maintenance
requirements. All FSE shall implement a BMP plan in its operation to minimize
the discharge of FOG to the sewer system. Detailed requirements for BMP plans
shall be specified in the permit. This may include but is not limited to:
      1.   Installation of drain screens;
      2.   Segregation and collection of waste cooking oil;
      3.   Disposal of food waste into the trash or garbage;
      4.   Employee training;
      5.   Record keeping requirements;
      6.   Notifications required; and
      7.   Kitchen signage.
      If the FSE has a waiver for some aspect of the program, that waiver will
be documented in an attachment to the permit. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.8.3: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPEALS:
The Pretreatment Coordinator shall provide public notice of the issuance of an
individual or general wastewater discharge permit. Any person, including the
user, may petition the Pretreatment Coordinator to reconsider the terms of a
wastewater discharge permit within thirty (30) calendar days of notice of its
issuance. The following conditions apply to wastewater discharge permit
appeals:
   A.   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the administrative appeal.
   B.   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater
discharge permit.
   C.   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
   D.   If the Pretreatment Coordinator fails to act within thirty (30)
calendar days, a request for reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied.
Decisions not to reconsider a wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a
wastewater discharge permit, or not to modify a wastewater discharge permit
shall be considered final administrative actions for purposes of judicial
review.
   E.   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final administrative
wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a complaint with the
Circuit Court for McHenry County within sixty (60) calendar days. (Ord. 24-O-
39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.8.4: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT MODIFICATION:
   A.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may modify an individual wastewater
discharge permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following
reasons:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised Federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      2.   To address substantial alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      3.   To reflect the issuance of a monitoring waiver;
      4.   To address introduction of a pollutant for which a monitoring waiver
had been obtained;
      5.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      6.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the city’s POTW, City personnel, or the receiving waters;
      7.   Violation of any terms or condition of the wastewater discharge
permit;
      8.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      9.   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR Section 403.13;
      10.   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater
discharge permit; or
      11.   To reflect a transfer of either the facility ownership or operation
to either a new owner or operator as provided by Section
6.4B.8.5 .
   B.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may modify a general wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised Federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      2.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      3.   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit; or
      4.   To reflect a transfer of either the facility ownership or operation
to either a new owner or operator as provided by Section 6.4B.8.5. (Ord. 24-O-
39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.8.5: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER:
Wastewater discharge permits shall not be transferred, assigned, or sold to a
new owner or new user in different premises or to a new or different operation
in the same or different premises without the expressed written approval of the
City. If the premises sold or otherwise transferred by the permittee to a new
owner who will maintain the operation in the same premises, whether or not the
seller will continue to operate the equipment or the equipment is leased to
another entity for its operation at the site of the original permittee, then
the permit held by the seller and/or owner shall be reissued by the City to the
new owner and/or operator as a temporary permit; provided:
   A.   The new owner and/or operator notified the City thirty (30) calendar
days in advance of the transaction;
   B.   The new owner and/or operator confirmed to the City, within five (5)
working days of the transaction, of completion of the date of sale or execution
of an operating contract; and
   C.   The new owner and/or operator shall apply for a new permit within
ninety (90) calendar days.
      Failure to provide the sale/transfer notification defined in subsection A
and B above, renders the wastewater discharge permit void as of said sale and/
or transfer date. it is further provided that the temporary permit shall only
be effective for one hundred eighty (180) calendar days after the date of sale
or transfer. The City shall have the same remedies for violation of temporary
permits as it has for violation of other wastewater discharge permits. (Ord.
24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.8.6: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION:
The Pretreatment Coordinator may revoke an Individual or general wastewater
discharge permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following
reasons:
   A.   Failure to notify the Pretreatment Coordinator of significant changes
to the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
   B.   Failure to provide prior notification to the Pretreatment Coordinator
of changed conditions pursuant to Sections
6.4B.9.6  and
6.4B.9.7 ;
   C.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application;
   D.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
   E.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
   F.   Refusing to allow the Pretreatment Coordinator and his/her designee(s)
timely access to the facility premises and records;
   G.   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
   H.   Failure to pay fines;
   I.   Failure to pay sewer charges;
   J.   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
   K.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application;
   L.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business or
operation ownership of a permitted facility; or
   M.   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any terms of
the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
      Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business or operation ownership. All wastewater
discharge permits issued to a particular user are void upon the issuance of a
new wastewater discharge permit to that user. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.8.7: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT RE-ISSUANCE:
A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for wastewater
discharge permit re-issuance by submitting a complete wastewater discharge
permit application, in accordance with Section
6.4B.7.5 , a minimum of ninety (90) calendar days prior to the expiration of
the user's existing wastewater discharge permit. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.8.8: REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS:
   A.   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the City shall enter into an
intergovernmental agreement with the contributing municipality.
   B.   The City shall request the following information from the contributing
municipality at a frequency determined by the City:
      1.   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      2.   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      3.   Such other information as the Pretreatment Coordinator may deem
necessary.
   C.   An intergovernmental agreement, as required by paragraph A. above,
shall contain the following conditions:
      1.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt the city’s
ordinance by reference or adopt a sewer use ordinance which is at least as
stringent as this chapter and local limits which are at least as stringent as
those set out in Sections
6.4B.5.2  and
6.4B.5.5  for the area to be served by the City. The requirement shall specify
that such ordinance and limits must be revised as necessary to reflect changes
made to the city’s ordinance or local limits.
      2.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
non-residential user inventory at a frequency determined by the City but at
least annually;
      3.   A provision specifying that Pretreatment implementation activities,
including Wastewater Discharge Permit issuance, inspection and sampling, and
enforcement, will be conducted by the Pretreatment Coordinator;
      4.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Pretreatment Coordinator with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      5.   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality's wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      6.   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality's
discharge;
      7.   A provision ensuring the Pretreatment Coordinator access to the
facilities of users located within the contributing municipality's
jurisdictional boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any
other duties deemed necessary by the Pretreatment Coordinator; and
      8.   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms of
the intermunicipal agreement. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.9: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
6.4B.9.1 GENERAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
Each User of the POTW and facilities of the City shall provide reports as
necessary to comply with this chapter and any wastewater discharge permit.
Reporting requirements may apply to users that are not required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.9.2 PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL USERS:
Should the City find that a non-residential user does not meet pretreatment
standards and requirements applicable to its discharge, causes or contributes
to a potential problem at the POTW, or when analysis of waste or observation of
the effect of such wastes on the POTW indicate that said wastes cannot be
treated satisfactorily at such POTW, or that said wastes are injurious to the
POTW, or to the treatment processes, or pollute the natural waters within the
City, its service areas or the waters of the State of Illinois additional
pretreatment and/or O&M will be required by the City to meet pretreatment
standards and requirements. Such facilities as the City may deem necessary for
pretreatment of the wastes shall be furnished by and at the expense of the user
as a condition of the discharge of said wastes into the POTW or to any natural
water within the City service area.
   A.   Pretreatment Review. The Pretreatment Coordinator will require the user
to initiate a pretreatment review through a telephone call, letter or certified
letter to the authorized representative of the user.
   B.   Pretreatment Initiation Meeting. A Pretreatment Initiation Meeting will
be held between the Pretreatment Coordinator and the user to discuss the
problem and the solution to said problem. If it determined that changes in
operation and maintenance, plant modifications, and/or the installation of
pretreatment equipment shall occur to resolve noncompliance, a schedule shall
be established with events and completion deadlines agreeable to both parties
to resolve the noncompliance. If appropriate, a Compliance Agreement defining
the agreed upon schedule will be sent from the City to the user shortly after
the meeting. If a schedule for compliance acceptable to the Pretreatment
Coordinator cannot be established, the matter will be referred for further
enforcement action consistent with the provisions of Section 6.4B.13 as
appropriate.
   C.   Progress Reports. Progress reports will be filed by the user on a
schedule agreed to by the Pretreatment Coordinator and the user concerning the
completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of
additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the applicable
pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to, hiring an
engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts for major
components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation). The user shall identify whether or not it
complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if
appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to return to the established
schedule.
   D.   Final Report. A final report will be filed with the Pretreatment
Coordinator by the user normally required within ninety (90) calendar days from
the end of the schedule deadline to verify the success or failure or the
schedule objective chosen by the user. The final report will if appropriate
identify the steps being taken by the user to resolve noncompliance. (Ord. 24-
O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.9.3: ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL
USERS:
In the event that either the City, EPA or a user determines that the user is
regulated as a CIU by standards and requirements promulgated by the USEPA in
accordance with Section 307 (b) and (c) of the Act, the following reports are
required to be filed by the user with both the City and USEPA.
   A.   Baseline Monitoring Reports. Within either one hundred eighty (180)
calendar days after the effective date of a categorical pretreatment standard,
or the final administrative decision on a category determination under 40 CFR
Section 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing CIUs currently discharging to
or scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall submit to the Pretreatment
Coordinator a report which contains the information listed below. At least
ninety (90) calendar days prior to commencement of their discharge, new
sources, and sources that become CIUs subsequent to the promulgation of an
applicable Categorical Standard, shall submit to the Pretreatment Coordinator a
report which contains the information listed below. A new source shall report
the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical
standards. a new source also shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and
quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      1.   Identifying Information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
      2.   Environmental Permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      3.   Description of Operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, (including each product produced by type, amount,
processes, and rate of production), and standard industrial classifications of
the operation(s) carried out by such user. this description should include a
schematic process diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      4.   Flow Measurement. Information showing the measured average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 CFR Section 403.6(e).
      5.   Measurements of Pollutants.
         a.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources;
         b.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Pretreatment Coordinator, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each
regulated process. instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average
concentrations (or mass, where required) shall be reported. the sample shall be
representative of daily operations. in cases where the standard requires a BMP
or pollution prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as
required by the Pretreatment Coordinator or the applicable standards to
determine compliance with the standard;
         c.   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
complete that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
A minimum of four (4) grab samples are required for pH, cyanide, total phenols,
oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organic compounds;
         d.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow the use of the combined wastestream formula
of 40 CFR Section 403.6(e) in order to evaluate compliance with pretreatment
standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated
in accordance with 40 CFR Section 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with
supporting data shall be submitted to the control authority;
         e.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in Section
6.4B.5.8  and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
Section
6.4B.5.9 ;
         f.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may allow the submission of a
baseline report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data
provides information sufficient to determine the need for industrial
pretreatment measures; and
         g.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place, of
sampling, and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the City.
      6.   Compliance Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s
authorized representative of the user (as defined in Section
6.4B.1.6 ), and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required for the user to meet the pretreatment standards and
requirements.
      7.   Compliance Schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. a compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in Section
6.4B.9.3 .B.
      8.   Signature and Report Certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be signed and certified in accordance with Section
6.4B.7.6 .
   B.   Compliance Schedule Progress Reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by Section
6.4B.9.3  A.7:
      1.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional Pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
      2.   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) calendar
months;
      3.   The user shall submit a progress report to the Pretreatment
Coordinator no later than fourteen (14) calendar days following each date in
the schedule and the final date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether
or not it complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay,
and, if appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to return to the
established schedule;
      4.   In no event shall more than nine (9) calendar months elapse between
such progress reports to the Pretreatment Coordinator; and
      5.   All compliance schedule progress reports must be signed and
certified in accordance with Section
6.4B.7.6 .
   C.   Reports On Compliance With Categorical Pretreatment Standard Deadline.
Within ninety (90) calendar days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to
the Pretreatment Coordinator a report containing the information described in
Section
6.4B.9.3  A. For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR Section 403.6(c) and
Section
6.4B.5.3 , this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-
term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with Section 6.4B.7.6. (Ord.
24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.9.4: PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS/ SELF-MONITORING REPORTS:
   A.   Significant Non-Categorical Industrial Users.
      1.   Significant non-categorical industrial users shall, at a frequency
determined by the Pretreatment Coordinator but in no case less than twice per
year (on dates specified by the City) submit a report to the City with a
description of the nature, concentration of pollutants in the discharge which
are limited by pretreatment standards and the measured or estimated average and
maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
      2.   These reports shall be based on sampling and analysis performed in
the period covered by the report, and performed in accordance with the
techniques described in 40 CFR Part 136 and amendments thereto. All wastewater
samples must be representative of the user's discharge and comply with the
requirements of Sections
6.4B.5.8  and
6.4B.5.9 .
      3.   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Pretreatment
Coordinator, using the procedures prescribed in Sections
6.4B.5.8  and
6.4B.5.9 , the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
      4.   All sampling and analysis may be performed by the City in lieu of
significant non- categorical industrial user. In such cases, the City will
issue an attachment to the wastewater discharge permit that specifies the City
will perform sampling and analysis semi-annually at minimum.
      5.   In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a
bmp or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit documentation
required by the Pretreatment Coordinator or the pretreatment standard necessary
to determine the compliance status of the user.
      6.   Where the City itself collects all the information required for the
report, the significant non-categorical industrial user will not be required to
submit the report.
   B.   Categorical Industrial Users (CIUs).
      1.   All industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standard
shall, at a frequency determined by the Pretreatment Coordinator but in no case
less than twice per year on dates specified by the City (normally in July and
January), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants
in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the measured
or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. at the
discretion of the City and in consideration of such factors as local high or
low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, etc., the City may agree to alter the
months during which the above reports are to be submitted. All periodic
compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with Section
6.4B.7.6 .
      2.   These reports shall be based on sampling and analysis performed in
the period covered by the report, and performed in accordance with the
techniques described in 40 CFR Part 136 and amendments thereto. All wastewater
samples must be representative of the user's discharge and comply with the
requirements of Sections
6.4B.5.8  and
6.4B.5.9 .
      3.   This sampling and analysis may be performed by the City in lieu of
CIU. In such cases, the City will issue an attachment to the wastewater
discharge permit that specifies the City will perform sampling and analysis
semi-annually at minimum.
      4.   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Pretreatment
Coordinator, using the procedures prescribed in Sections
6.4B.5.8  and
6.4B.5.9 , the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
      5.   Where the City has imposed mass limitations on users as provided for
by 40 CFR Section 403.6(c), the report required by paragraph B.1. of this
section shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by the pretreatment
standards in the discharge from the industrial user.
      6.   For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established by the City in accordance with the procedures in Section
6.4B.5.3 , the report required by paragraph B.1 shall contain a reasonable
measure of the user’s long term production rate. For all other users subject to
categorical pretreatment standards expressed only in terms of allowable
pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), the
report required by paragraph B.1 shall include the user’s actual average
production rate for the reporting period.
      7.   In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a
BMP or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit documentation
required by the Pretreatment Coordinator or the pretreatment standard necessary
to determine the compliance status of the user.
      8.   Upon approval of a monitoring waiver for Pollutants found to be not
present and revision of the User’s permit by the Pretreatment Coordinator, the
User must certify on each periodic report with the statement in Section
6.4B.7.6 , that there has been no increase in the Pollutant in its wastestream
due to activities of the User with the following statement:
         “Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 CFR     (specify
applicable national categorical pretreatment standard part(s)), I certify that,
to the best of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level
of the              (list the categorically regulated pollutant(s)) in the
wastewaters due to the activities at the facility since filing of the last
periodic report.”
      9.   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user’s operations,
the user must immediately comply with the monitoring requirements of paragraph
B.1 of this section or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by
the pretreatment coordinator, and notify the pretreatment coordinator.
   C.   Non-Significant Categorical Users.
      1.   Non-significant categorical industrial users as defined in Section
6.4B.1.6 shall, at a frequency determined by the pretreatment coordinator but
no less frequently than annually (on dates specified by the City) submit a
report which contains the certification statement contained in Section
6.4B.9.3 C. 2 below.
      2.   Certification Statement.
         “Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the categorical pretreatment standards under 40 CFR
   , I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during the
period from                     ,
                  to                    ,             
      (months, days, year):
         a.   The facility described as                                    
(facility name) met the definition of a non-significant categorical industrial
user a described by Section
6.4B.1.6;
         b.   The facility complied with all applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements during this reporting period; and
         c.   The facility never discharged more than one hundred gallons (100
gal.) of total categorical wastewater on any given day during this reporting
period.
         This compliance certification is based on the following information:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ”
      The report is required to be signed by an authorized representative of
the user.
   D.   Other Non-Significant Regulated Users.
      1.   Categorical zero process dischargers, non-categorical zero process
dischargers, batch dischargers, FSE and any firms regulated by individual or
general permit requirements including but not limited to BMPs shall, at a
frequency determined by the pretreatment coordinator, submit a periodic report
at a frequency defined in their wastewater discharge permit.
      2.   The reports may require sampling and analyses or some other measure
to determine compliance with permit pretreatment standards and requirements.
The user must submit documentation including BMP documentation necessary to
determine the compliance status of user as defined by the pretreatment
coordinator and identified in the wastewater discharge permit.
      3.   All FSE’s with GI’s must maintain cleaning logs. These logs shall be
immediately available at the time of an inspection and are required to contain
the following information:
         a.   Person and company that performed the cleaning;
         b.   Measurement of the depth of solids blanket and grease cap prior
to cleaning in each interceptor;
         c.   Volume of material removed from each interceptor; and
         d.   Location where waste will be disposed. A copy of the cleaning log
may be required to be submitted to the City by a date specified in a request
issued by the pretreatment coordinator. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.9.5: REPORTS FROM NON-PERMITTED USERS:
All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the pretreatment coordinator as required. These reports
include but are not limited to surveys of business activities, water usage,
wastes discharged, spill and slug loading potential, pretreatment equipment,
waste hauling and facility layout. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.9.6: AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE CHANGE NOTIFICATION:
Any SIU that changes the authorized representative of its company as defined in
Section
6.4B.1.6 shall file a change notice with the City within thirty (30) calendar
days. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.9.7: REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS:
Each user must notify the pretreatment coordinator of any planned substantial
changes to the user's operations or system which might alter the nature,
quality, or volume of its wastewater at least thirty (30) calendar days before
the change that for example results in an increase or addition or planned
shutdown or deletion of products. Immediate shutdowns or deletions of products
are required to be noticed to the DPW or his/her designee within five (5)
working days of determination.
   A.   The pretreatment coordinator may require the user to submit such
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under
Section
6.4B.7.5.
   B.   The pretreatment coordinator may issue or modify an existing individual
or general wastewater discharge permit under Sections
6.4B.8.2 and
6.4B.8.4 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   C.   For purposes of this requirement, substantial changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of twenty percent (20%) or greater, the addition
or deletion of a shift, the discharge of any previously unreported pollutants
including changes to the listed or characteristic hazardous wastes for which
the user has submitted initial notification under Section
6.4B.9.10, introduction of a pollutant for which a monitoring waiver had been
obtained, the addition of a new process regardless of waste discharge or lack
of discharge, shutdown of a process, or addition or deletion of a product.
   D.   SIUs and CIUs are required to notify the pretreatment coordinator
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.9.8: REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS:
   A.   Initial Notification. In the case of any discharge, including, but not
limited to, accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic
nature, a non-customary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone (within
fifteen (15) minutes), and notify the pretreatment coordinator of the incident.
if this notification cannot be made to the POTW staff during routine business
hours, the user shall notify the City Police Department who will notify the
POTW. This notification shall include the name of the caller, location of the
discharge, physical state of discharge, chemical composition, concentration and
volume, if known, and date and time of discharge as well as duration of the
discharge, and corrective actions taken by the user. The notification shall
include what Federal, state and local entities have also been notified by the
user.
   B.   The user shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with all applicable regulations upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
includes the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   C.   Written Notification. Within fifteen (15) calendar days following such
discharge, the user shall, unless waived by the pretreatment coordinator,
submit a detailed written report describing the cause(s) of the discharge and
the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences.
   D.   Such notifications shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall
such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties, or other liability
which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   E.   A notice/sign shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees in English and the language of
common use whom to call in the event of a discharge described in paragraph A,
above. Employers shall ensure through documentation that all employees, who may
cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the emergency notification
procedure. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.9.9: NOTICE OF VIOLATION/ REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING:
If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the
pretreatment coordinator within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the pretreatment coordinator within thirty
(30) calendar days after becoming aware of the violation. The user is not
required to resample if the pretreatment coordinator monitors at the user's
facility at least once a month, or if the pretreatment coordinator samples
between the user's initial sampling and when the user receives the results of
this sampling. If the City performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
user, the City will perform the repeat sampling and analysis unless it notifies
the user of the violation and requires the user to perform the repeat sampling
and analysis. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.9.10: NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE:
   A.   Pursuant to 40 CFR Section 403.12 (p) any User who commences the
Discharge of hazardous waste shall notify the POTW, the USEPA Regional Waste
Management Division Director, and state hazardous waste authorities, in
writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise
disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 CFR Part 261. Such
notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40
CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge
(continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than one hundred
kilograms (100 kg.) of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the user: an identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the waste stream discharged during
that calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste
stream expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months. All
notifications must take place no later than one hundred eighty (180) calendar
days after the discharge commences. Any notification under this paragraph need
be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However,
notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under Section
6.4B.9.8. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of Sections
6.4B.9.3.A,
6.4B.9.3.C, and
6.4B.9.4.B.
   B.   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of paragraph A, above,
during a calendar month in which they Discharge no more than fifteen kilograms
(15 kg.) of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 CFR Sections 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than
fifteen kilograms (15 kg.) of non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month,
or of any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR Sections
261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months
during which the user discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous
waste do not require additional notification.
   C.   In the case of any new regulations under Section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the
pretreatment coordinator, the USEPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division
Director, and state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such
substance within ninety (90) calendar days of the effective date of such
regulations.
   D.   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user shall
certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of
hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be economically
practical.
   E.   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable Federal or state law. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.9.11: REPORT SUBMITTAL DUE DATES:
Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date postmarked.
For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail facility
serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of the report
shall govern. In order to meet deadlines, reports may be emailed on the due
date to the City. The original email is required to be mailed to the City
postmarked within one (1) working day of the transmission. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-
2024)
6.4B.10: COMPLIANCE MONITORING:
6.4B.10.1: RIGHT OF ENTRY: INSPECTION AND SAMPLING:
The pretreatment coordinator and his/her designee(s), duly authorized agents of
the City, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the United States
Environmental Protection Agency, hereafter referred to as above named entities,
shall have the right to enter the premises of any user at reasonable times to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter
and any individual or general wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder. Users shall allow the above named entities ready access to all parts
of the premises for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, analyses, records examination and copying, and the performance of any
additional duties.
   A.   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the above named entities will be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   B.   The City shall have the right to set up on the user's property or
require installation of such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/
or metering of the user's operations.
   C.   The pretreatment coordinator may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated twice yearly (at six (6)-month intervals) to ensure their
accuracy. The user shall submit these calibration reports semi-annually to the
City with the periodic compliance reports required in Section
6.4B.9.3.
   D.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the pretreatment coordinator and shall not
be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
   E.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the pretreatment coordinator and his/
her designee access to the user's premises shall be a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.10.2: RECORD KEEPING:
   A.   Users. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter
shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements,
and documentation associated with BMPs established under Section
6.4B.8.2. Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three (3) years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the City, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the pretreatment coordinator.
   B.   City. The City will maintain documentation of any monitoring waiver
issued per Section
6.4B.7.5.D for a period of three (3) years after the expiration of the waiver.
The documentation will include the reasons supporting the waiver and any
information submitted by the user in its request for the waiver. (Ord. 24-O-39,
7-16-2024)
6.4B.10.3: SEARCH WARRANTS:
If the pretreatment coordinator has been refused access to a building,
structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any
permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety and welfare of the community, then the pretreatment coordinator may seek
issuance of a search warrant from the Circuit Court of McHenry County. (Ord.
24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.11: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual or general wastewater discharge
permits, and monitoring programs, and the pretreatment coordinator inspection
and sampling activities, shall be available to the public without restriction,
unless the user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Pretreatment Coordinator and City Attorney, that the
release of such information would divulge information, processes, or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable state law.
Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of the information
or data. When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that
such information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which
might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available
for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon
request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or
pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the Person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other
“effluent data” as defined by 40 CFR 2.302 will not be recognized as
confidential information and will be available to the public without
restriction. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.12: PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE:
The pretreatment coordinator shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction
served by the POTW, a list of the users which, at any time during the previous
twelve (12) months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements. The term significant noncompliance
shall be applicable to all significant industrial users and categorical
industrial users (or any other user that violates paragraphs C, D or H) of this
Section and shall mean:
   A.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter during a six (6)-month period exceed (by any
magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits as defined in Section
6.4B.5;
   B.   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
each pollutant parameter during a six (6)-month period equals or exceeds the
product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by Section
6.4B.5 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   C.   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by Section
6.4B.5 (daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative
standard) that the pretreatment coordinator has determined caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
   D.   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the pretreatment
coordinator exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge;
   E.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) calendar days of the scheduled
date, a compliance schedule milestone contained in an Individual or general
wastewater discharge permit or enforcement order for starting construction,
completing construction, or attaining final compliance;
   F.   Failure to provide within forty-five (45) calendar days after the due
date, any required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on
compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-
monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   H.   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management practices, that the pretreatment coordinator determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.13: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
6.4B.13.1: NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION:
   A.   When the pretreatment coordinator finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement including instantaneous limits, the pretreatment coordinator may
serve upon that user a written notice of violation (NOV). Within ten (10)
working days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation and
a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include
specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the pretreatment
coordinator. submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability
for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the NOV.
   B.   The pretreatment coordinator may initiate a pretreatment review meeting
for any violation issued under Section
6.4B.13.1.A but most likely for the first violation of any parameter. The City
shall schedule a pretreatment review meeting, normally within thirty (30)
calendar days of the determination that a meeting is required.
      As a result of a pretreatment review meeting, the City may issue a
compliance directive stating that the user is in a “corrective action” status.
A plan for correction and compliance schedule illustrating milestones may be
issued by the City to the user. This plan for correction and compliance
schedule may become part of the user’s permit. The user is responsible for
meeting the permit limits at all times. The plan for correction, compliance
schedule and revised permit does not relieve the user of meeting the permit
limits and/or ordinance requirements. The user shall take whatever actions are
necessary to meet the permit limits and permit conditions.
   C.   As a result of a violation, the City may continue to sample the user
and inspect the user’s progress towards meeting milestones as needed to
determine if the user is complying with the conditions of the plan of action,
compliance schedule and/or permit. In the event the City detects and documents
any violation; a NOV will be issued to the user.
   D.   Each detected violation of the plan of action, compliance schedule, and
permit, will result in a NOV being issued to the user. When NOV #3 (total of
three (3) NOVs) is issued, a “ticket” may be issued to the user or authorized
representative.
      The ticket is a legal notice requiring the user to appear in court,
either McHenry County Circuit Court or the City Code Hearing Department. The
City may charge assessments to the user as provided for in the ordinance.
   E.   When the user has met the conditions of the plan of action, compliance
schedule, and permit, the City will notify the user in writing that the
conditions have been satisfied and they are no longer under a “corrective
action” status if such a status was formally issued.
   F.   Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the pretreatment
coordinator to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a NOV. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.13.2: COMPLIANCE AGREEMENTS:
The pretreatment coordinator may enter into compliance agreements, i.e. consent
orders, assurances of compliance, or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will
include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance
within a time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the
same force and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to Sections
6.4B.13.4 and
6.4B.13.5 and the City shall have the right to seek judicial enforcement of
said documents. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.13.3: SHOW CAUSE ORDER:
The pretreatment coordinator may order a user which has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to
appear at a specified date and time to show cause why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the
time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons
for such action, and a request that the user show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be
served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested)
at least ten (10) working days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served
on any authorized representative of the user. A show cause hearing shall not be
a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.13.4: COMPLIANCE ORDERS:
When the pretreatment coordinator finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
pretreatment coordinator may issue an order to the user responsible for the
discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time.
If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment
standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.13.5: CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS:
When the pretreatment coordinator finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or
that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the Pretreatment
Coordinator may issue an order to the User directing it to cease and desist all
such violations and directing the user to:
   A.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   B.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-
16-2024)
6.4B.13.6: EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS:
The pretreatment coordinator may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
pretreatment coordinator may also immediately suspend a user's discharge, after
notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to
the environment.
   A.   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. in the event of a user's failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Pretreatment
Coordinator may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The pretreatment
coordinator may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the pretreatment coordinator that the
period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings in
Section
6.4B.13.7 are initiated against the user.
   B.   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the pretreatment coordinator prior to the
date of any show cause or termination hearing under Sections
6.4B.13.3 or
6.4B.13.7.
      Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior
to any emergency suspension under this section. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.13.7: TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE:
In addition to the provisions in Section
6.4B.8.6, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to
discharge termination:
   A.   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
   B.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
   C.   Failure to report substantial changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
   D.   Refusal of reasonable access to the User's premises for the purpose of
inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
   E.   Violation of the pretreatment standards in Section
6.4B.5.
Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and be
offered an opportunity to show cause under Section
6.4B.13.3 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option
by the pretreatment coordinator shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.14:   PENALTIES AND JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
6.4B.14.1:   RECOVERY OF COSTS INCURRED:
Any entity or user violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or who
causes damage to or impairs the city’s POTW shall be liable to the City for any
expense, loss or damage caused by such violation or discharge. The City may
invoice the costs, including but not limited to, sampling and analyses
associated with the investigation, costs of mitigating impact to the POTW,
costs of preparing the administrative enforcement actions such as notices and
orders investigative and/or correction actions, and review of response(s) from
the user. In the event of damage, losses or impairments, the City shall bill
the user for the costs incurred by the City for any cleaning, repair,
replacement or other investigative and/or corrective action(s) as a response to
the violation or discharge. Refusal to pay the assessed costs shall constitute
a violation of this chapter enforceable under the provisions of Section
6.4B.13.
Recovery of costs incurred also includes but is not limited to the following
provisions specific for FSE:
   A.   Grease Disposal Mitigation Fee. FSE that operate without a grease
interceptor (GI) may be required to pay an annual grease disposal mitigation
fee to equitably cover the costs of increase maintenance of the sewer system as
a result of the FSE’s inability to adequately remove FOG from its wastewater
discharge. This Section shall not be interpreted to allow the new construction
of, or existing FSE undergoing remodeling to operate without an approved GI.
      1.   The grease disposal mitigation fee shall be based on the estimated
annual increased cost of maintaining the sewer system for inspection and
removal of FOG and other viscous or solidifying agents attributable to the FSE
resulting from the lack of a grease interceptor or grease control device.
      2.   Sewer System Overflows, Public Nuisance, Abatement and Cleanup
Costs. Notwithstanding the waiver of grease interceptor installation for
existing FSE established in Section
6.4B.3.8, FSE found to have contributed to a sewer blockage, Sewer System
Overflows (SSOs) or any sewer system Interferences resulting from the discharge
of wastewater or waste containing FOG may be subject to costs incurred by the
City. SSOs may cause threat and injury to public health, safety, and welfare of
life and property and are hereby declared public nuisances. Furthermore, sewer
lateral failures and SSOs caused by FSE alone or collectively, are the
responsibility of the private property owner or FSE, and individual(s) as a
responsible officer or owner of the FSE. If the City must act immediately to
contain and clean up an SSO caused by blockage of a private or public sewer
lateral or system serving a FSE, or at the request of the property owner or
operator of the FSE, or because of the failure of the property owner or FSE to
abate the condition causing immediate threat of injury to the health, safety,
welfare, or property of the public, the city’s costs for such abatement may be
entirely borne by the property owner or operator of the FSE, and the individual
(s) as a responsible officer or owner of the FSE(s) and may constitute a debt
to the City and become due and payable upon the city’s request for
reimbursement of such costs. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.14.2:   INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual or general wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Pretreatment Coordinator may petition the Circuit Court of
McHenry County through the City Attorney for the issuance of a temporary
restraining order, temporary injunction, or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
individual or general wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement
imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The Pretreatment Coordinator
may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable
relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental
remediation. a petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-
2024)
6.4B.14.3:   CIVIL PENALTIES:
When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual or general wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Pretreatment Coordinator may file a complaint in the City’s
Code Hearing Department or the Circuit Court of McHenry County for civil
penalties as follows:
   A.   Any user shall be subject to the imposition of a civil penalty of not
less than of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation. Each day such
violation existing shall constitute as a separate offense. In the case of a
monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for
each day during the period of the violation.
   B.   The Pretreatment Coordinator also may recover costs, including but not
limited to, filing fees, witness fees, attorneys' fees, court costs, and other
expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the City.
   C.   In determining the amount of civil liability, the code hearing
department or circuit court shall take into account all relevant circumstances,
including, but not limited to, the extent of harm caused by the violation, the
magnitude and duration of the violation, any economic benefit gained through
the user's violation, corrective actions by the user, the compliance history of
the user, and any other factor as justice requires.
   D.   Filing a complaint for civil penalties or a complaint in the City’s
Code Hearing Department shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against a user.
   E.   A user may elect to pay the penalty assessed in the complaint in lieu
of proceeding to a hearing before the City’s Code Hearing Department or in
Circuit Court provided that only a penalty has been assessed and the City has
not sought other action, such as injunctive relief. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.14.4:   REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The Pretreatment
Coordinator may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the City’s Enforcement Response Plan. However, the Pretreatment
Coordinator may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Pretreatment Coordinator is empowered to take more than
one (1) enforcement action against any noncompliant user. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-
2024)
6.4B.15:   SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION:
6.4B.15.1:    FAILURE TO REPORT OR NOTIFY:
 
A.   Sewer Extension and Connection Permits. Any entity who fails to file for
and obtain a sewer extension or connection permit prior to commencing
construction of said extension or connection required by this chapter may be      
subject to the following late filing fees in addition to extension, connection
or annexation fees:
   1.   First Notice Issuance of Warning/Citation
   2.   Second Notice                                                           $250.00
   3.   Cost per day per Population Equivalent (PE) for each additional day past$100.00
second notice deadline
B.   City Reports or Notifications. Any entity who fails to file any report or
notification so required by this chapter may be subject to the following late filing
fees:
   1.   First Offense – less than thirty (30) calendar days past due issuance of
warning
   2.   Recurring reporting violations or more than thirty (30) calendar days pa$100.00
due
      NOV response noncompliance                                                $250.00
      Cost per additional day past final request deadline                       $50.00
   3.   Substantial Change Notification. No written notification of substantial
changes whether discharged or not:
      At start-up or shutdown                                                   $500.00
      Per each additional fifteen (15) days in excess of thirty (30) calendar da$100.00
C.   Reports or Notifications required by Significant or Categorical Industrial
Users. Any entity who fails to file any Periodic Pretreatment Report (Semi-Annual),
Baseline Monitoring Report, or ninety (90)-day Final Compliance Report so required by
this chapter may be subject to the following late filing fees:
   1.   First Offense – less than thirty (30) calendar days past due issuance of
warning.
   2.   Recurring reporting violations or:
         Thirty (30) or more calendar days past due                          $250.00
         NOV response noncompliance                                          $500.00
         Cost per additional day past final request deadline                 $100.00
 
 
   3.   Substantial changes. No written notification of substantial changes
whether discharged or not:
         At start-up or shutdown                                         $1,000.00
         Per each additional fifteen (15) days in excess of thirty (30) c$200.00
days
D.   Ownership Notification Specific to Entities With Wastewater Discharge
Permits.
   1.   No written notification of change in ownership and/or operation of  $1,000.00
facility, or any portion thereof with an individual permit
   2.   No written notification of change in ownership and/or operation of  $500.00
facility, or any portion thereof with a general permit
 
(Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.15.2:   PERFORMANCE BONDS:
The pretreatment coordinator may decline to issue or reissue an individual or
general wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with
any provision of this chapter, a previous individual or general wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, unless such user first files a satisfactory bond, payable to
the City, in a sum not to exceed a value determined by the pretreatment
coordinator to be necessary to achieve consistent compliance. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-
16-2024)
6.4B.15.3:   LIABILITY INSURANCE:
The pretreatment coordinator may decline to issue or reissue an individual or
general wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with
any provision of this chapter, a previous individual or general wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, unless the user first submits proof that it has obtained
financial assurances sufficient to restore or repair damage to the POTW caused
by its discharge. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.15.4:   PAYMENT FOR OUTSTANDING FEES, FINES, AND PENALTIES:
The pretreatment coordinator may decline to issue or reissue an individual or
general wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to pay any
outstanding fees, fines or penalties incurred as a result of any provision of
this chapter, a previous individual or general wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.15.5:   WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE:
Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
chapter, an individual or general wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any pretreatment standard or requirement, water service to the
user may be severed. Service will recommence, at the user’s expense, only after
the user has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply and paid
outstanding costs, fees, and penalties. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.15.6:   PUBLIC NUISANCES:
A violation of any provision of this chapter, an individual or general
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement is hereby declared a public nuisance and
shall be corrected or abated as directed by the Pretreatment Coordinator. Any
person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions
governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the City for any costs incurred
in removing, abating, or remedying said nuisance and any attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with such matter. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.15.7:   CONTRACTOR LISTING:
Users which have not achieved compliance with applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements are hereby declared to be non-responsible users and therefore
are not eligible to receive a contractual award for the sale of goods or
services to the City. Existing contracts for the sale of goods or services to
the City held by a user found to be in significant noncompliance with
pretreatment standards or requirements may be terminated at the discretion of
the pretreatment coordinator. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.16:   AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS:
6.4B.16.1:   UPSET:
   A.   Definition of upset is provided in Section
6.4B.1.6.
   B.   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of paragraph C, below, are met.
   C.   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      1.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
Upset;
      2.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      3.   The user has submitted the following information to the pretreatment
coordinator within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset (if
this information is provided orally, a written report must be provided within
five (5) working days): [Optional Streamlining provision.]
         a.   A description of the Indirect Discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         b.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         c.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   D.   In any enforcement proceeding, the User seeking to establish the
occurrence of an Upset shall have the burden of proof.
   E.   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial or administrative
adjudication determination on any claim of Upset only in an enforcement action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards.
   F.   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.16.2:   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS:
A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in Sections
6.4B.5.2.A and B or the specific prohibitions in Sections
6.4B.5.2 C.1 through C.31 if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason
to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other
sources, would cause pass through or interference or that either:
   A.   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   B.   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the City was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of Interference,
was in compliance with applicable biosolids use or disposal requirements. (Ord.
24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.16.3:   BYPASS:
   A.   For the purposes of this section,
      1.   BYPASS: Means the intentional diversion of waste streams from any
portion of a User's treatment or Pretreatment facility.
      2.   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE: Means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property
damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   B.   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of Subsections C and D of this section.
   C.   Bypass Notifications.
      1.   Anticipated. If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it
shall submit prior notice to the Pretreatment Coordinator, at least ten (10)
working days before the date of the bypass, if possible.
      2.   Unanticipated. A user shall submit oral notice to the Pretreatment
Coordinator of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment
standards within twenty-four (24) hours from the time it becomes aware of the
bypass. A written submission shall also be provided within five (5) calendar
days of the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission
shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the
bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has not been
corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps taken or
planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The
Pretreatment Coordinator may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis
if the oral report has been received within twenty-four (24) hours.
   D.   POTW Actions.
      1.   Bypass is prohibited, and the Pretreatment Coordinator may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         a.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         b.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. Ths condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         c.   The user submitted notices as required under paragraph C of this
section.
      2.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may approve an anticipated bypass,
after considering its adverse effects, if the Pretreatment Coordinator
determines that it will meet the three (3) conditions listed in paragraph D.1
of this section. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.17: MISCELLANEOUS FEES:
6.4B.17.1: FEE SCHEDULE:
The City has adopted the following fees:
Ordinance Section Item Fee
Ordinance Section Item                           Fee
6.4B.3.2.B        Grinder pump permit and        $150
                  inspection fee
                  Residential sanitary sewer     Based on city's IMPACT fee
6.4B.3.3.A.5      connection permit and          schedule published annually
                  inspection fee
                  Non-residential sanitary sewer
6.4B.3.3.A.5      connection permit and          Based on P.E. loading
                  inspection fee
6.4B.3.3.C.2      Failure to properly barricade  $100
                  excavation
6.4B.3.4.B        Additional inspections         $100
                                                 Equal to costs incurred by
6.4B.3.6.A        Monitoring facility inspection City for third-party
                  fee                            laboratory testing and
                                                 analysis and consulting fees
6.4B.3.7.A.1      Garbage grinder inspection fee $150
                  Grease, oil and sand
6.4B.3.7.A.2      interceptor for non-FSE        $150
                  inspection fee
6.4B.3.7.A.3      Neutralizing basin inspection  $150
                  fee
6.4B.3.8.A.3      Grease interceptor review and  $150
                  inspection fee
                                                 All costs incurred by the City
6.4B.3.8.C.4      Grease disposal mitigation fee including labor, equipment,
                                                 testing and disposal charges
 
(Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.17.2: PRETREATMENT PROGRAM FUNDING:
Reserved. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.17.3: PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES:
The City Finance Department may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of
costs of setting up and operating the City’s Pretreatment Program unique to a
specific User which may include:
   A.   Categorical pretreatment standard determination, establishment and
documentation for wastewater discharge permit;
   B.   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   C.   Fees for reviewing plans or construction relating to accidental
discharge and slug control plans as defined in Section
6.4B.6.5;
   D.   Fees for reviewing FSE waivers per Section
6.4B.3.8.C;
   E.    Fees for responding to report of potential problems as defined in
Section
6.4B.9.8;
   F.   Fees for filing appeals;
   G.   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs associated with the
enforcement activity taken by the Pretreatment Coordinator to address user
noncompliance; and
   H.   Other fees as the City may deem necessary to carry out the requirements
contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this
chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties chargeable
by the City. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.17.4: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
   A.   In addition to remedies available to the City set forth elsewhere in
this chapter, if the POTW is fined by the state or USEPA for violation of the
POTW NPDES permit or violation of water quality standards as the result of
discharge of pollutants by a user or group of users, then the fine, including
all legal, sampling, analytical testing costs and any other related costs
incurred by the City shall be charged to the responsible user or group of
users. Such charges shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other
remedies the City may have under this chapter, statutes, regulations, at law or
in equity.
   B.   If the discharge from any non-residential user causes a deposit,
obstruction or damage to any portion of the POTW, the POTW shall cause the
deposit or obstruction to be promptly removed or cause the damage to be
promptly repaired. The cost for such work, including materials, labor and
supervision, shall be borne by the person or nonresidential user causing such
deposit, obstruction, or damage. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.18: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
6.4B.18.1: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter is invalidated by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall not be affected and shall continue
in full force and effect. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.18.2: CONFLICT:
All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or conflicting
with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of such
inconsistency or conflict. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-2024)
6.4B.18.3: OFFENSES UNDER PREVIOUS ORDINANCES:
This chapter shall not be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former chapter, or in any way whatever to affect such offense or act
so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred
or any right accrued or claim arising before the new chapter takes effect, save
only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to the chapter in force at the
time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. Nothing contained in this
chapter shall be construed as abating any action now pending. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-
16-2024)
6.4B.19: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect immediately following its
passage, approval, and publication, as provided by law. (Ord. 24-O-39, 7-16-
2024)
ARTICLE C. METERS
SECTION:
6.4C.1: Meters Required
6.4C.2: Installation Of Meters, Fees
6.4C.3: Location Of Meters
6.4C.4: Reading Meters
6.4C.5: Operation Of Meters, Tests
6.4C.6: Repair Of Meters
6.4C.7: Tampering With Meters
6.4C.8: Penalties
6.4C.9: Inspections, Access To Premises
6.4C.1: METERS REQUIRED:
All premises using water from the City water supply shall be equipped with an
adequate water meter. Water service may be supplied at a flat rate of charge
until such meter is installed. Every single-family and duplex dwelling
hereafter connected to the water system shall be equipped with a device so as
to permit the direct reading of the meter outside the house. Such devices shall
be installed under the supervision of the Director of Public Works. (Ord. 777,
4-23-1968; amd. 1986 Code)
6.4C.2: INSTALLATION OF METERS, FEES:
All water meters shall be installed by the Department of Public Works. In
addition to any and all other charges for water service, tapping fees, service
connection fees, and all other charges, there is hereby imposed a fee to
provide and install a water meter upon a premises that is connected to the City
water supply system. The fee shall be the cost to the City of the meter and
installation of the meter plus a fifty dollar ($50.00) administrative fee.
(Ord. 18-O-52, 10-2-2018)
6.4C.3: LOCATION OF METERS:
   A.   Approval Of Location: Water meters may be located inside or outside of
buildings in position approved by the Director of Public Works, with easy
access for reading, inspecting, repairing or removing. Any meter placed inside
a building shall be set as near as practicable to the wall where the service
pipe enters the building and shall be kept above the basement or cellar floor.
The meter shall not be set in toilet or storage rooms nor in positions where it
may become inaccessible. Meters shall be protected against hot water, freezing
or other injuries. (1963 Code, §40.20)
   B.   Setting Of Meters:
      1.   Water meters must be set level and made firm by resting on proper
supports. Square faced unions must be used in connecting the meter so that it
can be readily removed by the Department of Public Works in case of necessity
for testing or otherwise. Provision shall be made for easily restoring the
water supply in the event the meter must be removed. A stop of waste shall be
placed on both the inlet and outlet end of the meter.
      2.   Before a water meter is set the pipes shall be thoroughly flushed.
Red or white lead shall not be used in making the couplings. Care shall be
exercised to prevent filings, bits of waste, lead or other foreign substances
from remaining in the meter, fittings or pipe.
      3.   In case two (2) or more meters are placed upon the service
connection, they shall be so placed that not one of them shall measure water
that has passed through another meter. (1963 Code, §40.21)
6.4C.4: READING METERS:
The Director of Finance shall read or cause to be read every water meter used
in the City at such times as are necessary for billing. (1963 Code, §40.23)
6.4C.5: OPERATION OF METERS, TESTS:
   A.   Meter Wear: The consumer shall not be responsible for failure on the
part of the meter due to wear, or injury by freezing, hot water or other
accident. (Ord. 18-O-52, 10-2-2018)
   B.   Testing Meters: All meters in service shall be sealed and shall be
tested for accuracy by the Director of Public Works at such times as he may
direct. The test so made shall be at the expense of the City. The City will
test the accuracy of any water meter on request of the consumer, who shall pay
the actual cost of such test in case the meter shall be found inaccurate or
registering slow. In the event the meter shall be found registering fast, the
City will bear expense of the test. Water meters testing not more than two
percent (2%) slow shall be considered accurate. (1963 Code, §40.16)
   C.   Wasted Water: All water passing through a meter will be charged for,
whether used or wasted, and no deductions will be made for water wasted through
defective pipes, fixtures or otherwise, unless otherwise approved by the
Finance Director. (Ord. 18-O-52, 10-2-2018)
   D.   Estimates Of Water Consumption: If any water meter ceases to register,
stops or is otherwise out of repair and fails to correctly indicate the water
consumed, the Director of Public Works shall estimate from the most reliable
data available, the quantity of water passing through the meter during such
failure and the bill so estimated shall be paid by the consumer. (1963 Code,
§40.18)
6.4C.6: REPAIR OF METERS:
   A.   No water meter shall be repaired, changed, altered, disconnected or in
any manner disturbed except by the Department of Public Works. In case of
freezing, leak or other dangerous emergencies, qualified plumbers may, without
first obtaining a permit, remove the damaged meter from the line, but in no
case from the premises. Notice of such removal shall be filed with the Director
of Public Works by the plumber within forty eight (48) hours after such
removal.
   B.   Consumers shall promptly notify the Director of Public Works when a
water meter is frozen, and shall not attempt to thaw such meter. Consumers
shall also give notice of injury or accident to water meters or their supply.
(1963 Code, §40.19)
6.4C.7: TAMPERING WITH METERS:
No person other than a duly authorized officer or employee of the Department of
Public Works shall set, repair or interfere with any water supply or meter; and
if it shall be found that the water supply or water meter is being tampered
with by any unauthorized person, the owner or occupant of the premises at which
such meter is located shall be held responsible, and the water supply to such
premises may be cut off. If the water supply is cut off for such cause, it
shall not again be turned on until the owner or occupant of the premises shall
have paid to the City the cost and expense of cutting off and turning on such
water supply. The charges to the owner or occupant will be based on each
individual incurrence that requires a City employee to cut off the water
supply. In addition, one hundred dollars ($100.00) will be charged as
liquidated damages for each incurrence of such unauthorized tampering and
interference. (Ord. 10-O-21, 4-20-2010)
6.4C.8: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any portion of this article, once a
restriction/prohibition has been put into place, shall be fined in accordance
with section
1.4.1 of this Code for each offense plus the City's cost of prosecution
including, but not limited to, its attorney fees. Each day that a violation
continues or persists shall be deemed a separate offense. At the discretion of
the City Manager or his/her designee, the City may initiate adjudication
procedures in accordance with title 1, chapter 7, article L of this Code to
settle contested matter(s), to achieve compliance with this article, assess
penalties and fines, and collect outstanding obligations. In addition, the City
reserves the right to discontinue water service to any premises until the
violation is corrected. (Ord. 10-O-21, 4-20-2010)
6.4C.9: INSPECTIONS, ACCESS TO PREMISES:
   A.   Public Works or its designee shall have the right of access to any
premises within the City for purposes of reasonable inspection, maintenance,
repairs and changes or upgrades, to ascertain whether such premises are
connected to the City water system, to inspect the plumbing within the building
and the number and type of water connections, and to inspect, maintain. repair,
and change or upgrade the water meter on the premises. Any person refusing the
right of the Sewer and Water Department or its designee to access and inspect
their premises or to make the necessary maintenance, repair, change or upgrade,
shall be subject to a penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) each day such refusal
continues to exist starting fifteen (15) days after first notice is sent.
   B.   Access for inspection or reading of water meters shall be allowed at
least six (6) times per year.
   C.   In addition to any other penalties provided herein, the City shall have
the power to physically disconnect the water service to a building. The
procedure to be followed in any such disconnection shall be as follows:
      1.   If access to a building cannot be obtained voluntarily, a first
notice shall be served personally or sent by certified or registered mail to
the owner or the occupant of the building (if his name be known) informing them
of the need for the City to gain access to the water meter.
      2.   If inspection cannot be reasonably made within fifteen (15) days of
the first mailing or posting, then a second termination notice shall be mailed
and posted giving the owner or the occupant of the building an additional
fifteen (15) days to allow the City access to the water meter before water
service is disconnected. Notice shall give owner or the occupant the
opportunity to request a hearing.
      3.   If a hearing is requested, it shall be conducted by the City Manager
or his designee. If said Hearing Officer determines the water should be
disconnected, then the date of such disconnection shall be furnished to the
person requesting the hearing in person, if he attends the hearing, or by mail
if he fails to attend the hearing, and the City shall disconnect the water
service on or after that date.
      4.   Once water service has been disconnected, the reinstatement fee
specified in subsection
6.4D.9L of this chapter shall apply and be paid prior to reconnection. (Ord.
14-O-44, 7-15-2014; amd. Ord. 23-O-28, 5-2-2023)
ARTICLE D. RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
6.4D.1: Water Connection Fees
6.4D.2: Sewer Connection Fees
6.4D.3: Water Rates
6.4D.4: Sewer Rates
6.4D.5: Rate Application
6.4D.6: Automatic Rate Increase
6.4D.7: Wastewater Services, User Charges
6.4D.8: Water/Sewer Bills; Late Payment Penalties
6.4D.9: Utility Service Procedures
6.4D.10: Regulations Applicable To All Users
6.4D.11: Shutting Off Water
6.4D.12: Disposition Of Revenue
6.4D.13: Limitations Of Water Use
6.4D.14: Penalties
6.4D.15: Payment Application Order
6.4D.16: Monthly Tote Garbage and Sanitary Facilities Charges
6.4D.1: WATER CONNECTION FEES:
The fees set forth herein are charged in order to reimburse the City for its
costs of labor and material for making taps and installing meters, and for the
privilege of connecting to the water system. Such fees are deemed to be the
personal liability of the owner of, and a levy on, the real estate involved.
Fees are as follows:
   A.   Taps:
 
For each 1 inch tap made by the City to      $ 75.00
service any real estate
For each tap made by the City greater than 1 150.00
inch, but less than 2 inches
The cost for making a tap greater than 2     Shall be determined case by case
inches
 
(Ord. 04-O-19, 2-3-2004)
   B.   Meters: See section
6.4C.2 of this chapter for fees. (Ord. 04-O-94, 10-5-2004)
   C.   Connection: Connection fees (to be paid by those connecting to the
City's potable water service who are not subject to section 6.8 of the
subdivision and platting ordinance of the City of Woodstock, Illinois
[subdivision regulations]) shall be as follows: (Ord. 04-O-19, 2-3-2004)
 Connection Fee
                                      Connection Fee
Apartment unit:                        
Efficiency                            $ 1,855.00
1 bedroom                             1,855.00
2 bedrooms                            2,025.00
3 or more bedrooms                    3,225.00
Single-family attached dwelling unit:
1 bedroom                             1,260.00
2 bedrooms                            2,095.00
3 bedrooms                            2,520.00
4 or more bedrooms                    2,520.00
Single-family detached dwelling unit:
2 bedrooms                            2,130.00
3 bedrooms                            3,055.00
4 bedrooms                            3,055.00
5 or more bedrooms                    3,055.00
Commercial/industrial:
1 inch meter or less                  2,520.00
11/2 inch meter                       5,040.00
2 inch meter                          8,190.00
3 inch meter                          10,238.00
4 inch meter                          12,797.00
6 inch meter                          15,997.00
 
(Ord. 04-O-19, 2-3-2004; amd. Ord. 07-O-38, 4-17-2007; Ord. 18-O-52, 10-2-2018)
   D.   CPI Adjustment: The connection fees required herein shall be subject to
a "CPI adjustment" which shall be calculated on January 1, 2005, and on January
1 in each year thereafter. Annually, the connection fees shall be adjusted by
the December–December percent change as published by the United States
Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics, All Items Consumer Price
Index ("CPI") for Urban Consumers (1982-1984 = 100) for the Chicago
Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area, Illinois. If any index is
calculated from a base different from the base period 1982-1984 = 100, such
index shall be converted to a base period of 1982-1984 = 100 by use of a
conversion factor supplied by said Bureau of Labor Statistics. If the CPI is
discontinued or replaced, such other governmental cost of living index or
computation which replaces the CPI shall be used in order to obtain
substantially the same result as would be obtained if the CPI had not been
discontinued or replaced. (Ord. 04-O-19, 2-3-2004)
6.4D.2: SEWER CONNECTION FEES:
The fees set forth herein are charged in order to reimburse the City for its
costs of inspection, and for the privilege of connecting to the City's sewerage
system. Such fees are deemed to be the personal liability of the owner of, and
a levy on, the real estate involved, and are as follows:
   A.   Inspection: Inspection fee for each connection: Ten dollars ($10.00).
   B.   Connection: Connection fees (to be paid by those connecting to the
City's sanitary sewer service who are not subject to section 6.9 of the
subdivision and platting ordinance of the City of Woodstock, Illinois
[subdivision regulations]) shall be as follows: (Ord. 04-O-19, 2-3-2004)
 Connection Fee
                                      Connection Fee
Apartment unit:                        
Efficiency                            $ 2,860.00
1 bedroom                             2,860.00
2 bedrooms                            3,100.00
3 or more bedrooms                    4,995.00
Single-family attached dwelling unit:  
1 bedroom                             1,940.00
2 bedrooms                            3,235.00
3 bedrooms                            3,890.00
4 or more bedrooms                    3,890.00
Single-family detached dwelling unit:  
2 bedrooms                            3,270.00
3 bedrooms                            4,700.00
4 bedrooms                            4,700.00
5 or more bedrooms                    4,700.00
Commercial/industrial:                 
1 inch meter or less                  3,880.00
11/2 inch meter                       7,760.00
2 inch meter                          12,610.00
3 inch meter                          15,763.00
4 inch meter                          19,703.00
6 inch meter                          24,629.00
 
(Ord. 04-O-19, 2-3-2004; amd. Ord. 07-O-38, 4-17-2007; Ord. 18-O-52, 10-2-2018)
   C.   CPI Adjustment: The connection fees required herein shall be subject to
a "CPI adjustment" which shall be calculated on January 1, 2005, and on January
1 in each year thereafter. Annually, the connection fees shall be adjusted by
the December-December percent change as published by the United States
Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics, All Items Consumer Price
Index ("CPI") for Urban Consumers (1982 - 1984 = 100) for the Chicago
Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area, Illinois. If any index is
calculated from a base different from the base period 1982 - 1984 = 100, such
index shall be converted to a base period of 1982 - 1984 = 100 by use of a
conversion factor supplied by said Bureau of Labor Statistics. If the CPI is
discontinued or replaced, such other governmental cost of living index or
computation which replaces the CPI shall be used in order to obtain
substantially the same result as would be obtained if the CPI had not been
discontinued or replaced. (Ord. 04-O-19, 2-3-2004)
6.4D.3: WATER RATES 1 :
All property upon which any building has been or may hereafter be erected
having a connection with any mains or pipes, which may hereafter be constructed
and used in connection with the City water system shall pay the following rates
per quarter:
Consumption Base Fee Usage Fee Total
Consumption            Base Fee       Usage Fee Total
0 cubic feet           $19.40         $ 0.00    $19.40
100 cubic feet         19.40          2.28      21.68
200 cubic feet         19.40          4.56      23.96
300 cubic feet         19.40          6.84      26.24
400 cubic feet         19.40          9.12      28.52
500 cubic feet         19.40          11.40     30.80
600 cubic feet         19.40          13.68     33.08
700 cubic feet         19.40          15.96     35.36
800 cubic feet         19.40          18.24     37.64
900 cubic feet or more Not Applicable $4.47 per 100 cubic feet of water
                                      consumed
 
(Ord. 17-O-30, 4-18-2017; amd. Ord. 19-O-39, 4-16-2019; Ord. 20-O-28, 4-21-
2020, Ord. 21-O-28, 4-20-2021; Ord. 22-O-24, 4-19-2022; Ord. 23-O-26, 4-18-
2023; Ord. 23-O-60, 12-5-2023; Ord. 24-O-22, 4-16-2024; Ord. 25-O-25, 4-15-
2025)
 
Notes
1 1. These rates shall pertain to all water/sewer bills issued by the City of
  Woodstock on or after January 1, 2024.
6.4D.4: SEWER RATES 1 :
There are hereby established rates or charges for the usage of the sewage
system of the City. Rates or charges shall be based upon the amount of the
water supplied by the City of Woodstock’s waterworks system, as shown by the
water meter readings performed quarterly by the Public Works Department of the
City. All users of the sewage system shall be charged quarterly. The rates
hereinafter set out based upon the water meter readings are as follows:
Consumption Base Fee Usage Fee Total
Consumption            Base Fee       Usage Fee Total
0 cubic feet           $23.28         $ 0.00    $23.28
100 cubic feet         23.28          2.55      25.83
200 cubic feet         23.28          5.10      28.38
300 cubic feet         23.28          7.65      30.93
400 cubic feet         23.28          10.20     33.48
500 cubic feet         23.28          12.75     36.03
600 cubic feet         23.28          15.30     38.58
700 cubic feet         23.28          17.85     41.13
800 cubic feet         23.28          20.40     43.68
900 cubic feet or more Not Applicable $5.19 per 100 cubic feet of water
                                      consumed
 
(Ord. 17-O-30, 4-18-2017; amd. Ord. 19-O-39, 4-162019; Ord. 20-O-28, 4-21-2020,
Ord. 21-O-28, 4-20-2021; Ord. 22-O-24, 4-19-2022; Ord. 23-O-26, 4-18-2023; Ord.
23-O-60, 12-5-2023; Ord. 24-O-22, 4-16-2024; Ord. 25-O-25, 4-15-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. These rates shall pertain to all water/sewer bills issued by the City of
  Woodstock on or after January 1, 2024.
6.4D.5: RATE APPLICATION:
The minimum quarterly rate for water service and sewer service shall apply for
all users, including the users for less than a regular quarterly period. In the
case of multiple-unit dwellings, residences, businesses or both, the minimum
rate and the rate applied for all water service and for all sewer service or
fraction thereof shall be for each residence and/or business unit in every such
building. (Ord. 1480, 1-2-1979, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1979)
6.4D.6: AUTOMATIC RATE INCREASE:
The rates hereinbefore specified shall be increased by an amount not less than
fifty percent (50%) of the rates herein established, including the minimum rate
for water and sewer service, in the event that the City Council shall have
failed to perform an evaluation of the water and sewer rate structure. This
automatic increase shall go into effect on May 1, 1984, if no such analysis has
been performed during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year beginning May 1,
1983. (Ord. 1480, 1-2-1979, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1979; amd. Ord. 1785, 2-15-
1983)
The rate study herein contemplated may be commenced by either the City Council
or by the City Manager at the direction of the City Council. The manner, form
and depth of any such analysis shall be within the sole discretion of the City
Council and may be performed by such consultants as may from time to time be
appointed, hired or retained to assist in the performance of the analysis and
evaluation of the existing water and sewer rates structure.
Following the performance of the evaluation and the analysis herein
contemplated, the City Council shall pass or adopt either an ordinance or a
resolution declaring the existing rates to be sufficient to meet all existing
and projected expenditures and expenses of the system and to retire any
indebtedness incurred for the construction of comprehensive improvements to the
system or declaring a revised rate structure to meet such additional costs as
may be reasonably foreseeable within the fiscal year. The passage of such an
ordinance or resolution shall toll the operation of this section insofar as it
applies to the automatic increase of water rates for the fiscal year in which
the resolution or ordinance shall be adopted to May 1 of the next succeeding
year. The effect of this section shall be continuing beginning with May 1 in
each successive fiscal year commencing with May 1, 1978, until further order,
ordinance or resolution of the city council. In the absence of the adoption of
the resolution or ordinance herein provided, the rate increase of fifty percent
(50%) of the rate structure in existence in each year shall automatically occur
and the director of finance shall be instructed to issue his billings
accordingly commencing with the first day of each month of each billing quarter
following the failure of the city council to adopt the ordinance or resolution
hereinbefore provided for. (Ord. 1480, 1-2-1979, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1979)
6.4D.7: WASTEWATER SERVICES, USER CHARGES:
   A.   Basis For Wastewater Service Charges: The wastewater service charge for
the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the city
shall consist of a basic user charge for operation and maintenance plus
replacement, a debt service charge and a surcharge if applicable.
The debt service charge shall be computed by dividing the annual debt service
of all outstanding bonds issued for sewerage/system improvements by the number
of users. Through further division, the monthly and quarterly debt service
charges can be computed.
The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by water meters
and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following concentrations:
      1.   A five (5) day, twenty degree Celsius (20°C) biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) of three hundred forty milligrams per liter (340 mg/l).
      2.   A suspended solids (SS) content of four hundred milligrams per liter
(400 mg/l).
It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus replacement and shall
be computed as follows:
         a.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
         b.   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories
by volume, suspended solids and BOD, if possible.
         c.   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated.
         d.   Proportion the estimated costs to nonindustrial and industrial
users by volume, suspended solids and BOD.
         e.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal sewage
strength.
         f.   Compute surcharge costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons per mg/
l in excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed a concentration for
BOD three hundred forty milligrams per liter (340 mg/l) and SS four hundred
milligrams per liter (400 mg/l). The surcharge will be based on water usage as
recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the
three hundred forty milligrams per liter (340 mg/l) and four hundred milligrams
per liter (400 mg/l) concentration for BOD and SS respectively. The procedures
to compute a surcharge are specified in subsection E of this section.
The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed annually by
certified public accountants for the city in their annual audit report. The
wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect a change in
debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs including
replacement costs.
   B.   Measurement Of Flow: All users of the system shall be metered. The
volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges shall be
metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of seven hundred
fifty (750) gallons, one hundred (100) cubic feet.
If a person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any part, or
all, of his water from sources other than the public waterworks system, all or
part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person shall install
and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by the director
of public works for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained
from these other sources.
Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required by the
director of public works if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from
the metered water consumption records. Such metering devices for determining
the volume of waste shall be installed, owned, and maintained by the person.
Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed, unless
service is canceled, without the consent of the director of public works.
   C.   Debt Service Charge: Debt service charge shall be computed following
the procedure established for computing operation and maintenance plus
replacement charges under subsection A of this section, except that the
anticipated connection charge income and bond fund investment income may be
deducted from the debt service requirement before computation. A debt service
charge of twenty two cents ($0.22) per seven hundred fifty (750) gallons to
each user of the wastewater facility is hereby established.
   D.   Basic User Rate: A minimum charge of five dollars twenty cents ($5.20)
per quarter for OM&R plus eighty eight cents ($0.88) per quarter for debt
service shall be applied to all users whose water consumption does not exceed
three thousand (3,000) gallons per quarter (400 cubic feet).
A basic user charge of one dollar thirty cents ($1.30) per seven hundred fifty
(750) gallons for OM&R and twenty two cents ($0.22) per seven hundred fifty
(750) gallons for debt service shall be applied to all users for water
consumption in excess of three thousand (3,000) gallons per quarter.
   E.   Surcharges: Surcharges for BOD5 shall be computed according to the
formula outlined in ordinance 1796.
The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be established
by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as may be deemed
necessary by the Director of Public Works and shall be binding as a basis for
surcharges.
   F.   Wastewater Service Charge: The wastewater service charges shall be
computed according to the formula outlined in ordinance 1796. (Ord. 1796, 5-3-
1983)
6.4D.8: WATER/SEWER BILLS; LATE PAYMENT PENALTIES:
The Finance Director, or designee, shall render bills for water/sewer service
charges quarterly during the first full week of the month. All bills are due
and payable on or before the last business day of the month. A ten percent
(10%) penalty shall be added to bills not paid by the last business day of the
month. When bills remain unpaid after the due date, a notice of delinquency
shall be issued pursuant to subsection
6.4D.9G of this article. (Ord. 06-O-22, 3-21-2006, eff. 5-1-2006)
6.4D.9: UTILITY SERVICE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section:
   BUSINESS DAY: Monday through Friday unless one of those days falls on a
legal holiday.
   USER: Any consumer of the utility service whether commercial, industrial, or
residential. Each separate commercial, industrial or residential unit in a
commercial, industrial, or residential building shall be considered a separate
and individual user for base fee purposes whether or not they have a separate
water meter.
   UTILITY SERVICE: Utility service includes water, sewer and Municipal garbage
pickup service.
   B.   Liability For Service: The owner of the premises, the occupants thereof
and the users of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for
the utility service on such premises and the service is furnished to the
premises by the City only upon the condition that the owner of the premises,
occupants and users of the service are jointly and severally liable therefor to
the City.
   C.   Bills: The Finance Director, or designee, shall issue utility bills
quarterly during the first full week of the month. All bills are due and
payable on or before the last business day of the month. A ten percent (10%)
penalty shall be added to bills not paid by the last business day of the month.
Information that should be stated on the original utility bill shall include,
but shall not be limited to:
      1.   Time period of water, sewer and garbage service covered by the
utility bill;
      2.   Total charges due, including any outstanding balances;
      3.   Date when the total payment is due;
      4.   Whether or not the bill is based on actual or estimated usage;
      5.   A telephone number the customer can call to:
         a.   Dispute the charges or delinquency charge;
         b.   Request a deferred payment plan;
         c.   Determine how to avoid termination of utility service for
nonpayment of the amount due;
         d.   Request restoration of utility service; and
         e.   Request utility service information.
   D.   Deferred Payment Plan: At the discretion of the Finance Director, a
deferred payment plan may be established for a customer. During the deferred
payment plan period, the customer shall be required to pay any newly incurred
charges by the corresponding due dates. In the event a customer fails to make
the required payments, the City shall institute termination procedures as
provided herein. Deferred payment plan procedures shall be established by the
Finance Director.
   E.   Appeals To City Manager: In the event the Finance Director denies a
request for a deferred payment plan, the customer may appeal that decision, in
writing, to the City Manager.
   F.   Billing Disputes: Any dispute over a utility bill must first go before
the Finance Director. The customer, prior to the due date of the disputed bill,
shall contact the Finance Director in writing stating why all or part of the
bill is being disputed and the basis for the dispute. Within three (3) business
days after receipt of the customer's written notice, the City shall schedule an
informal meeting with the customer. Within five (5) business days after the
meeting, the City shall notify the customer, in writing, of its decision. If
the customer objects to the decision, a formal hearing may be requested before
the City Manager. The request must be made in writing within five (5) business
days of receiving the decision from the City. The hearing shall be held within
ten (10) business days of receipt of the hearing request. The decision of the
City Manager shall be final.
   G.   Notice Of Delinquency: The Finance Director, or designee, shall send a
notice of delinquency to the person named in the City's utility billing record
when utility charges are not paid by the last business day of the month in
which they are billed. That notice shall include a ten percent (10%)
delinquency charge. If the charges are not paid within thirty (30) days of
their original due date, a final notice of delinquency shall be sent, advising
the customer that service shall be terminated if the outstanding amount is not
paid within fifteen (15) days. Notices should inform the recipients of the
delinquent amount of charges for the property and should indicate that a lien
may be filed against the property for remaining unpaid charges and associated
City costs.
   H.   Liens:
      1.   Delinquent charges, including remaining balances of customers who
default on deferred payment plans, may constitute a lien upon the real estate
upon or for which utility service is supplied. If the final notice of
delinquency has not been sent to the owner of record for any reason, the City
will send a final notice of delinquency to the owner of record before filing
any lien against the property.
         a.   Once a final notice of delinquency has been sent to the owner of
record, if the amount due remains unpaid, at the discretion of the Finance
Director, the City may file a lien in the Office of Recorder of Deeds in
McHenry County for delinquent utility charges. This notice shall describe: 1)
the real property that is the subject of the lien sufficient for its
identification, 2) the amount of money due for utility service to that
property, and 3) the date when such amount became delinquent.
         b.   Once recorded, the Finance Director or designee shall send a copy
of the lien to the owner of record.
         c.   A release of lien shall be prepared by the City, for the owner to
file at the owner's cost, only upon payment to the City of the amount due plus
any late fees, a reasonable administration fee and any recording fees incurred
by the City.
         d.   At the direction of the City Manager (or his designee), the City
Attorney is authorized to file suit in a court of competent jurisdiction to
foreclose on any lien recorded pursuant to this section. The City shall be
entitled to recover reasonable attorney fees in any action to foreclose a lien
recorded pursuant to this section.
   I.   Civil Action: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the
City may sue the occupant or user of the real estate in a civil action to
recover the money due for services rendered, plus a reasonable attorney fee, to
be fixed by the court.
   J.   Posting Of Service Termination:
      1.   In the event the bill remains unpaid fifteen (15) days following the
final notice of delinquency, the City may terminate the water service. If the
City elects to do so, then a "notice of water shutoff" shall be served through
hand delivery to the occupant or by posting on the real estate for which the
outstanding obligation is owed. The notice shall state that the utility service
will be terminated if the bill is not paid within twenty four (24) hours and,
if utility service is disconnected, the building may be red tagged by the City
as "unfit for human occupancy".
      2.   Within twenty four (24) hours after being red tagged, all persons
and animals are to vacate the building until utility service is reinstated.
      3.   A twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee shall be charged to the owner for
each time the service termination notice is posted.
      4.   At the discretion of the Finance Director, the posting fee may be
waived for first time offenders or if the customer agrees to an automatic
payment plan.
   K.   Termination; Repairs: In the event termination requires any repairs to
the service pipe, the cost of such repairs shall be the responsibility of the
property owner.
   L.   Reinstatement Of Service:
      1.   Upon payment to the City of the full delinquency, including a fifty
dollar ($50.00) reinstatement fee and, when applicable, a twenty five dollar
($25.00) posting fee, the City will reinstate the utility service.
      2.   In the event reinstatement does not take place during regular
business hours, the charges for the reinstatement fee will be increased by an
additional seventy five dollars ($75.00).
      3.   Upon payment of the fees and reinstatement of utility service, the
building shall, so far as the City is concerned, be again "fit for human
occupancy" in this regard only.
      4.   Should a City employee be sent to a property to turn off the water
after proper notices and the water is left on because a payment arrangement is
made at this point, a twenty five dollar ($25.00) dispatch fee will be charged.
This fee will be in addition to the twenty five dollar ($25.00) posting fee, if
applicable, but will be in lieu of the fifty dollar ($50.00) reinstatement fee.
      5.   Termination of service for any reason including nonpayment will not
eliminate customer obligation from being charged any applicable utility rates
under this chapter.
   M.   Deposit: At the discretion of the Finance Director, delinquent
customers may be required to place on deposit with the City an amount equal to
the estimated user charges for three (3) billing periods. The user shall
continue to pay the charges assessed hereunder by the City thereafter as
billed, and after eight (8) billing periods of prompt payment of such charges
with no delinquency in excess of thirty (30) days, the deposit shall be
refunded to the person having made such deposit.
At the request of a landlord, a deposit can be collected from their tenants in
an amount up to the estimated user charges for a three (3) month billing period
including monthly tote service, if applicable. Funds will be returned to the
tenant, minus any outstanding charges, when either the tenant moves out of the
premises or the City determines that a deposit is no longer necessary. Refunds
will be processed within thirty (30) days of such event.
All refunds of deposits will not include interest.
   N.   City's Rights: This section shall not abridge or limit the City's right
or ability to terminate utility service upon the owner's request, or
temporarily disconnect or discontinue utility service in order to conduct
repairs or maintenance upon the utility system or for other emergency purposes.
   O.   Final Bills: No transfer of real property within the corporate limits
of the City may be completed unless the City's Finance Department has been
notified of the impending transfer and has given a final bill related to
charges for water, sewer, and garbage service to the property to be paid at the
time of closing or before. In the event that property is acquired without
payment made for water, sewer, and garbage service due at the time of
acquisition, then the person or entity acquiring the property shall be
responsible for payment of the charges due at the time of acquisition. (Ord.
17-O-81, 9-19-2017)
6.4D.10: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL USERS:
The regulations of this chapter govern every user of the City's water and
wastewater facilities and shall be part of the contract between the City and
every such user. By making application for water or sewer service every user
shall agree to be bound thereby. (Ord. 06-O-22, 3-21-2006, eff. 5-1-2006)
6.4D.11: SHUTTING OFF WATER:
In case of making repairs or alterations or constructing new facilities, or for
any other reason, the City reserves the right to shut off the water and keep it
shut off as long as may be necessary to make such repairs, alterations or the
construction of new facilities. Prior to shutting off the water, users shall be
given adequate notice except in an emergency; and in such case, the City shall
provide notice as conditions permit. No claim shall be made against the City by
reason of the above or by reason of the breakage or failure of any pump, or
other portion of the water or sewer system. (Ord. 06-O-22, 3-21-2006, eff. 5-1-
2006)
6.4D.12: DISPOSITION OF REVENUE:
   A.   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the Sewerage Fund. All
such revenues and monies shall be held by the City Finance Director separate
and apart from his private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of
the City and all of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be
delivered to the Treasurer not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the
same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed
by the Mayor and Council.
   B.   The City Finance Director shall receive all such revenues from the
sewerage system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of
such system as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the
account of the fund designated as the "Sewerage Fund of the City". Said
Director shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by
statute of the "Revised Cities and Villages Act" 1 . (1986 Code; amd. Ord. 06-
O-22, 3-21-2006, eff. 5-1-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS.
6.4D.13: LIMITATIONS OF WATER USE:
Whenever, in the judgment of the City Manager, a public emergency may require
it, he/she shall have the right and authority by proclamation to limit in
respect to time, or wholly suspend or prohibit for as long as the emergency
shall, in his/her judgment require, the use of water for any nonessential
purpose, and no person shall use or withdraw water in violation of any such
proclamation.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any portion of this section, once a
restriction/prohibition has been put into place, shall be fined seventy five
dollars ($75.00) for each offense plus the City's cost of prosecution
including, but not limited to, its attorney fees. Each day that a violation
continues or persists shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition, the City
reserves the right to discontinue water service to any premises until the
violation is corrected. (Ord. 07-O-20, 2-6-2007)
6.4D.14: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any portion of this article, once a
restriction/prohibition has been put into place, shall be fined in accordance
with section
1.4.1 of this Code for each offense plus the City's cost of prosecution
including, but not limited to, its attorney fees. Each day that a violation
continues or persists shall be deemed a separate offense. At the discretion of
the City Manager or his/her designee, the City may initiate adjudication
procedures in accordance with title 1, chapter 7, article L of this Code to
settle contested matter(s), to achieve compliance with this article, assess
penalties and fines, and collect outstanding obligations. In addition, the City
reserves the right to discontinue water service to any premises until the
violation is corrected. (Ord. 10-O-21, 4-20-2010)
6.4D.15: PAYMENT APPLICATION ORDER:
Payments received by the City shall be applied to outstanding charges in the
following order:
   A.   Garbage/refuse charges.
   B.   Sewer charges.
   C.   Water charges. (Ord. 14-O-44, 7-15-2014)
6.4D.16: MONTHLY TOTE GARBAGE AND SANITARY FACILITIES CHARGES:
   A.   Service Charge Established:
      1.   Authority: Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-19-4 and
5/11-19-5, the Corporate Authorities of this City are authorized to finance the
establishment and maintenance of systems or plants, by contract or by direct
provision, for the collection and disposal, treatment or recycling of garbage,
refuse and ashes by service charges to be collected from persons receiving
service, and are further authorized to provide for an exclusive method for the
disposition of garbage, refuse and ashes within the Village.
      2.   Tote Service And Park Porta-Potty Or Other Sanitary Facilities
Charges: In order to establish service charges which can reasonably be expected
to yield revenues not in excess of tote garbage contract obligations (along
with the cost to the City of providing Porta-Potty or other sanitary service to
City facilities, which shall be added to the cost of tote garbage contract
service charges) and the associated administrative costs of operation for those
customers utilizing the weekly tote service for the collection and disposal of
garbage, the charge shall be twenty-four dollars and fifty- four cents ($24.54)
per month for each tote service billed by the City as of January 1, 2022. On
January 1, 2023, and each successive January 1 thereafter until December 31,
2024, the monthly tote rate will increase by a percentage equal to the
percentage increase over the prior twelve (12) month period of November to
October reflected by the Consumer Price Index - All Urban Consumers, Garbage
and Trash Collection Services, CUSR0000SEHG02 ("CPI"). In no event will the new
rate be less than the rate then currently in effect.
      3.   Payment Of Bills: All persons receiving service for the collection
and disposal of garbage through the monthly tote service shall pay a monthly
charge to the City which shall be billed along with the water and sewer bills
on a quarterly basis.
      4.   Delinquencies: Such bills shall be deemed delinquent if not paid at
the end of the month in which it was billed and an additional ten percent (10%)
shall be added to such delinquent balance.
      5.   Collection Of Late Fees; Termination: If, after written notice from
the City that a charge is delinquent, a user fails to make payment of such
charge and delinquency charge within thirty (30) days thereafter, the Corporate
Authorities may undertake such legal proceedings as are required to enforce
collection, in which event such user shall also reimburse the City for all
costs, sheriff fees, attorney fees and other expenses as are incurred to
enforce collection as aforesaid. In addition, after the bill has been past due
for forty five (45) days, the City reserves the right to terminate the
customer's monthly tote service until full payment is made. Said payment shall
include the delinquency as well as all costs, sheriff fees, attorney fees and
other expenses as are incurred to enforce collection. (Ord. 14-O-44, 7-15-2014;
Ord. 21-O-47, 9-7-2021)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
7.1.1: Adoption Of Code
7.1.2: Additions, Insertions, And Changes
7.1.3: Additions, Insertions And Changes To City Of Woodstock Residential
Building Code For One- And Two-Family Dwellings
7.1.4: Current Assessment Of Real Estate
7.1.5: Private Dwelling Inspection Fees (Rep. by Ord. 08-O-74, 12-2-2008, eff.
1-1-2009)
7.1.6: Survey Required
7.1.7: Permit Required And Fees
7.1.8: Building Operation
7.1.9: Design Standards
7.1.10: Demolition Of Buildings
7.1.11: Fences (Rep. by Ord. 06-O-93, 12-5-2006)
7.1.12: Appeals
7.1.13: Permit Expiration
7.1.14: Adoption Of Fire Prevention Code
7.1.15: Adoption Of Mechanical Code
7.1.16: Adoption Of Property Maintenance Code
7.1.17: Adoption Of Fuel Gas Code
7.1.18: Adoption Of Existing Building Code
7.1.19: Adoption Of Swimming Pool And Spa Code
7.1.1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
   A.   The International Building Code, 2021 edition, is hereby adopted as the
building code for the City, for the control of buildings and structures as
herein provided, except for those buildings and structures used exclusively as
one-family and two-family dwelling units, as defined in the Unified Development
Ordinance of the City.
   B.   The 2021 International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family
Dwellings, as published by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as
the one- and two-family building code for the City, for the control of one-
family and two-family dwelling units as defined in the Unified Development
Ordinance of the City. (Ord. 2395, 2-2-1993; amd. Ord. 2540, 4-4-1995; Ord. 99-
O-26, 5-18-1999; Ord. 03-O-44, 6-17-2003; Ord. 08-O-74, 12-2-2008, eff. 1-1-
2009; Ord. 16-O-22, 4-5-2016; Ord. 16-O-23, 4-5-2016; Ord. 23-O-01, 1-17-2023,
eff. 5-1-2023)
7.1.2: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, AND CHANGES:
The following sections of the International Building Code, 2021 edition, are
hereby revised as follows:
   General - Section A, 101.1 Title.
   Insert: "City of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois"
   General - Section A 101.4.3 Plumbing.
   Delete: "...International Plumbing..."
   Insert: "...Illinois State Plumbing Code, current edition..."
   General - Section A 101.4.6 Energy.
   Delete: ".. .International Energy Conservation Code..."
   Insert: "...Illinois Energy Conservation Code, current edition..."
   General Section A 103.1 Creation of Enforcement Agency.
   Insert: ".. .City of Woodstock Building and Zoning Department..."
   Duties and Powers of Building Official - Section A 104.1 General.
   Insert at end: "The Building Official, however, is authorized to approve
minor building alterations, improvements, or changes after making a
determination that such alterations, improvements, or changes do not affect the
safety or structural integrity of a building or structure or negate the intent
of these regulations."
   Permits - Section A 105.2 Work Exempt from Permit.
   Insert: "Permits shall not be required for the following unless otherwise
required by the Woodstock City Code:"
   Building: Delete: Items 1, 2, and 12.
   Submittal Documents - Section A 107.1 General.
   Delete: "...two or more sets with each permit application"
   Insert: "...three or more hard copy (paper) sets and one digital/electronic
set with each permit application."
   Conformance Section A 108.2
   Insert: "...and the City of Woodstock Unified Development Ordinance..."
   Board of Appeals - Section A 113 Board of Appeals.
   Delete: Sections 113.1 through 113.3.
   Insert: "A 113.1 Board of Building Construction: Any person shall have the
right to appeal to the City of Woodstock Board of Building Construction a
decision of the code covering the manner of construction or materials to be
used in the erection, alteration or repair of a building or structure. An
application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this
code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted,
the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equivalent form of
construction can be used.
   The establishment of the Board of Building Construction, its membership and
their terms, frequency of meetings, and the board's powers and duties shall be
as set forth in the City Code of the City of Woodstock."
   Violations - Section A 114.4 Violation Penalties.
   Delete: "...subject to penalties as prescribed by law."
   Insert: "... shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not
less than $250.00 or double the permit fee, whichever is greater." more than
$500.00."
   Definitions - Section 202 [BG] High-Rise Buildings.
   Delete: "...75 feet..."
   Insert: "...50 feet..."
   Section 312.1 General.
   Delete: "Fences more than 7 feet (2134 mm) in height"
   Fire Partitions - Section 708.1 General. (Item 1)
   Insert: "Walls separating dwelling units, and separate tenants or
businesses, in the same building."
   Fire Partitions - Section 708.3 Fire-Resistance Rating.
   Delete: Exception 2.
   Horizontal Assemblies - Section 711.2.4.3 Fire-Resistant Rating.
   Delete: Exception.
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.1 General.
   Delete: First paragraph.
   Insert: 903.1 General.
   Automatic sprinkler systems shall comply with this section. New construction
activity (excluding the remodeling or alteration of existing buildings and
structures and not involving a change in use) for all use groups having a fire
area exceeding five-thousand (5,000) or more square feet shall be required to
install an automatic sprinkler system, except as follows:
   When additions are made to an existing building or structure having an
existing fire area of five-thousand (5,000) square feet or less, and when such
additions result in the building or structure having an aggregate fire area of
seventy-five-hundred (7,500) or more square feet, an automatic sprinkler system
is required and shall be provided.
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.1.1 Group A-1.
   Subsection 1: Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Where a single fire area,
   aggregate of all fire areas, or where the aggregate area of a building or
structure separated by a fire wall or fire walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.1.2 Group A-2.
   Subsection 1: Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Where a single fire area, aggregate of all fire areas, or where the
aggregate area of a building or structure separated by a fire wall or fire
walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.1.3 Group A-3.
   Subsection 1: Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Where a single fire area, aggregate of all fire areas, or where the
aggregate area of a building or structure separated by a fire wall or fire
walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.1.4 Group A-4.
   Subsection 1: Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Where a single fire area, aggregate of all fire areas, or where the
aggregate area of a building or structure separated by a fire wall or fire
walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.3 Group E.
   Subsection 1: Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Where a single fire area, aggregate of all fire areas, or where the
aggregate area of a building or structure separated by a fire wall or fire
walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet." Delete: Exception
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.4 Group F-1 And F-2.
   Insert: "903.2.4 Groups F-1 And F-2"
   Insert: "...containing a group F-1 or F-2 occupancy..."
   Item 1. Revise to read: "Where a group F-1 or F-2 single fire area,
aggregate of all fire areas, or where the aggregate area of a building or
structure separated by a fire wall or fire walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet."
   Item 2. Revise to read: "Where a group F-1 or F-2 fire area is located more
than two stories above grade plane."
   Item 3. Delete.
   Insert: "Exception: One-story, group F-2 buildings meeting the requirements
of section 507.3."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.7 Group B or M.
   Insert: "903.2.7 Groups B or M"
   Insert: "a group B or M..."
   Item 1. Revise to read: "Where a group B or M single fire area, aggregate of
all fire areas, or where the aggregate area of a building or structure
separated by a fire wall or fire walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet."
   Item 2. Revise to read: "Where a group B or M fire area is located more than
two stories above grade plane."
   Item 3. Delete.
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.9 Group S-1 And S-2.
   Insert: "903.2.9 Groups S-1 and S-2"
   Insert: "...a group S-1 or S-2...occupancy"
   Item 1. Revise to read: "Where a group S-1 or S-2 single fire area,
aggregate of all fire areas, or where the aggregate area of a building or
structure separated by a fire wall or
   fire walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet including any mezzanines."
   Item 2. Revise to read: "Where a group S-1 or S-2 fire area is located more
than two stories above grade plane."
   Item 3. Delete.
   Insert: "Exception: One-story, group S-2 buildings meeting the requirements
of section 507.3."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.9.1 Repair Garages.
   Item 1. Delete: "...10,000..."
   Insert: "...5,000..."
   Item 2. Delete: "...12,000..."
   Insert: "...5,000..."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.10 Parking Garages.
   Rename section title: Parking Garages
   Delete: "Group S-2"
   Insert: "Parking Garages"
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.11.3 Buildings 50 Feet or More
in Height.
   Rename section title: Delete: "55 feet"
   Insert: "50 feet"
   Delete: "...55 feet..."
   Insert: "...50 feet..."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.3.1.1.1 Exempt Locations.
   Delete: Exception 4.
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - 903.3.5 Water Supplies.
   Insert new section: "903.3.5.3 Hydraulic Design Safety Factor. All new
sprinkler system designs shall include a safety factor of 5 pounds above the
required operating pressure of any calculated system."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.4.1 Monitoring.
   Delete: "...an approved supervising station...or proprietary supervising
station..." or, when approved by the fire code official, shall sound an audible
signal at a constantly attended location."
   Insert: "...a remote supervising station at the Woodstock police department,
via the City of Woodstock's radio network..."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.4.2 Alarms.
   Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Approved audible and visual alarm appliances in the form of an
approved 10-inch exterior bell and a white/clear, 75 cd, weatherproof strobe
light shall be provided on the exterior of the building above the fire
department sprinkler or standpipe connection; and, an approved 6-inch interior
bell and a white 75 cd strobe light shall be provided within the building
immediately outside of the sprinkler riser room when one is present or in a
location approved by the fire department. These appliances shall only activate
with the activation of a water-flow alarm device which shall be activated
within 90-seconds by water flow equivalent to the flow of a single sprinkler of
the smallest orifice size in the system. Where a fire alarm system is
installed, actuation of the automatic fire sprinkler system shall actuate the
building fire alarm system."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.4.3 Floor Control Valves.
   Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Approved water-flow alarm devices and approved supervised
indicating control valves shall be provided at the point of connection to the
riser on each floor of the building."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.6 Room Identification and
Lighting.
   Insert: "903.6 General. All doors providing access to fire sprinkler riser
control valves rooms and the main fire alarm control panel room shall be
labeled in accordance with section F 510.1 (as amended) of the international
fire code. Illumination shall be provided within all fire sprinkler and fire
alarm control rooms, and in the immediate vicinity of all equipment not
provided within a dedicated room, in accordance with section 1006.1."
   Alternative Automatic Fire-Extinguishing Systems - Section 904.3.5
Monitoring.
   Insert: "...The building fire alarm system shall be supervised as required
in 903.4.1 as amended above. When a fire alarm system is not provided within
the building, any provided required alternative fire extinguishing system shall
be monitored as required in 903.4.1 as amended above."
   Standpipe Systems - Section 905.3.1 Building Height.
   Delete: "...30 feet..." two locations
   Insert: "...18 feet..." two locations
   Standpipe Systems - Section 905.4 Location of Class I Standpipe Hose
Connection.
   Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Class I standpipe hose connections, consisting of a 2½ inch valve
and connection with a 2½ inch by 1½ inch reducing cap, shall be provided in all
of the following locations:"
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.1.4 Secondary Power Supply.
   Insert: "907.1.4. Secondary Power Supply. All fire alarm control equipment
shall be provided with 60-hours of secondary power supply."
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.1.5 Duct Smoke Detection.
   Insert: "907.1.5. Duct Smoke Detection. Duct smoke detection provided or
required by this, or other applicable codes, shall receive their power directly
from an initiating device circuit or signal line circuit from the building fire
alarm control unit when one is provided. Duct smoke detectors shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and shall be
located within the building space in ambient conditions consistent with the
listing of the duct detector.
   Duct detectors shall be provided with remote alarm indicators and test
switches located as directed by the City of Woodstock."
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.1.6 Automatic Fire Alarm
System.
   Insert: "907.1.6. Automatic Fire Alarm System. Where an automatic fire alarm
system is required, detection shall be provided in accordance with NFPA 72
throughout all occupiable spaces within the building, and those areas required
by other codes or standards."
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Sections 907.2.1 Group A, 907.2.2 Group
B, And 907.2.4 Group F.
   Delete: Exception.
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.2.3 Group E.
   Delete: Exceptions 3 and 4.
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - 907.2.7 Group M.
   Delete: Exception 2.
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.2.8.1 Group R-1 Manual Fire
Alarm System.
   Delete: Exception 2.
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.2.9 Group R-2.
   Item 1. Delete: "...three..."
   Insert: "...two..."
   Delete item 3.
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.6.3.1 Fire Alarm
Annunciators.
   Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "907.6.3.1 Fire Alarm Annunciators. When the main fire alarm control
equipment is not located at the entrance to the building used by the fire
district, a remote annunciator, compatible with the fire alarm control unit,
shall be provided in a location approved by the Fire District."
   "Fire alarm annunciators shall have the capability, when activated by the
fire district with the use of a key, to provide the following functions:
   1.   Alarm acknowledgment.
   2.   Alarm silence.
   3.   Alarm reset."
   Annunciation at Multi-Tenant Buildings. Annunciation from multiple tenant
building shall be provided when a fire alarm control unit supervises signals
from multiple tenant spaces or dwelling unit buildings, each with their own
individual entrance, in a one-story building, the following requirements shall
apply:
   1.   Each tenant space, or dwelling unit entrance, shall be provided with an
exterior mounted, weatherproof, clear or nominal white lens, 75 cd strobe light
over the main entrance to the space.
   2.   Tenant space, or dwelling unit common area, initiating devices and
notification appliances shall be zoned separately by the fire alarm control
unit.
   3.   In buildings provided with an automatic sprinkler system, water-flow
activation in a specific tenant space, or dwelling unit
      area, shall report as a water-flow activation from the space.
   4.   Exception: Area detection throughout the tenant space may be
substituted for item 3 if the area detection reports an activation from the
space. The exception does not apply to dwelling unit buildings.
   5.   Upon activation of an initiating device, with the exception of a water-
flow device, within a tenant space or dwelling unit common area, the
notification appliances within the space, and the exterior strobe shall
activate for the space.
   6.   Upon the activation of a water-flow device in any tenant space,
dwelling unit area, or the main water-flow device if provided, all interior and
exterior notification appliances shall activate.
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.6.4 Zones.
   Delete: Current section verbiage but maintain the exception.
   Insert: "For conventional (zone) fire alarm control panels, each floor of a
building shall be zoned separately, and each type of device shall be zoned
separately on each floor. A zone shall not exceed 22,500 square feet. The
length of any zone shall not exceed 300-feet in any direction.
   For addressable fire alarm control units, point identification shall be
provided for each initiating device shall be addressed separately except that
like supervisory devices, with the exception of fire pump monitoring, may be on
a single identification address if located within the same room or space
subject to the approval of the fire code official.
   Each duct smoke detector shall be installed on its own zone or address."
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.6.6 Monitoring.
   Delete: Current text.
   Insert: "Where a fire alarm system is required by this chapter, the system
shall be monitored in accordance with 903.4.1 as amended."
   Fire Department Connections - Section 912.3 Hose Threads.
   Insert: "All required fire department connections shall be provided with
two- 2½ inch connections with NST threads."
   Fire Department Connections - Section 912.7 Fire Hydrant Location.
   Insert: "A fire hydrant, on a 6-inch (minimum size) distribution water main
served by the municipal water system, shall be located within 100 feet of the
fire department connection in a location approved by the Woodstock fire/rescue
district."
   Doors, Gates and Turnstiles - 1010.2.4 Locks and Latches.
   Delete: Item 2.
   Accessibility - Chapter 11.
   Delete: Chapter 11 and any reference to accessibility within the
international building code. All accessibility references shall be deferred to
the Illinois Accessibility Code (current version).
   Flood Loads - Section 1612.3 Establishment of Flood Hazard Areas.
   Insert (seventh line): "City of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois"
   Insert (seventh line): "6/11/1982"
   Footings and Foundations - Section 1809.12, 1810.3.2.4 (Timber Footings) and
1807.1.4 (Permanent Wood Foundations Systems).
   Delete: All sections.
   General Construction Requirements - Section 2304.14 Fire-Resistance Rating.
   Insert: "2304.14 Fire-Resistance Rating. Where conventional light-frame wood
construction, prefabricated wood- I-joist, structural composite lumber,
structural glue- laminated timber, or similar structural wood components are
utilized for floor construction, such construction-shall be afforded a fire-
resistance rating of not less than 1 hour.
   Exception: Where the underside of the floor construction is protected with
an approved fire sprinkler system in accordance with section 903.3.1.1 or
903.3.1.2 the fire-resistance rating is not required."
   General - Section 2701.1 Scope.
   Delete: "...provisions of the ICC electrical code."
   Insert: "...provisions of the National Electrical Code/the edition as
adopted by the City of Woodstock."
   General - Section 2901.1 Scope.
   Delete: "...the international plumbing code..."
   Insert: "...the Illinois State Plumbing Code Current Edition..."
   Hoistway Enclosures - Section 3002.4 Elevator Car to Accommodate Ambulance
Stretcher.
   Delete: "Where elevators are provided in buildings four or more stories
above grade or four or more stories below grade..."
   Insert: "Where a building is provided with an elevator, or a building
exceeds two stories above grade, or a building exceeds two stories below
grade..."
   Section 3009 Periodic Tests and Inspections.
   Insert: "3009.1 Required. Acceptance tests and/or inspections shall be
provided on all equipment covered by chapter 30 as follows:
      1.   On all new, relocated and altered equipment subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Annually on all existing equipment."
   Insert: "3009.2 Test and Inspection Requirements. The minimum requirements
for the inspection and test of the equipment subject to this chapter shall
conform to the following:
      1.   Elevators, dumbwaiters and escalators shall be inspected and tested
in accordance with ASME A17.1 listed in chapter 35.
      2.   Freight lifts and amusement devices shall be inspected and tested to
assure the load capacity and safe operation of the equipment. The tests shall
cover all operating protectives and safety devices, structural
         adequacy of the supports, and anchorage to floors, walls, ceilings and
foundations.
      3.   Manlifts shall be inspected and tested in accordance with ASME A90.1
listed in chapter 35.
      4.   Miscellaneous hoisting and elevating equipment shall be subjected to
tests and inspections as required by the code official to ensure safe
operation.
      5.   Conveyors and related equipment shall be inspected and tested in
accordance with ASME B20.1 listed in chapter 35."
   Insert: "3009.3 Fees. All fees for plan review, acceptance testing and
annual inspections of equipment subject to this chapter shall be borne by the
building owner subject to the fee schedule approved by the City of Woodstock,
McHenry County, Illinois."
   Insert: "3009.4 Certificate of Compliance. A certificate of compliance will
be prepared by the City of Woodstock upon the satisfactory inspection or test
for all equipment subject to this chapter. The owner or lessee of the equipment
shall post the certificate in a conspicuous place or shall indicate where the
certificate is located for viewing."
   Signs - Section 3107.1 General.
   Insert: "All signs shall be subject to the applicable regulations contained
in the City of Woodstock unified development ordinance which shall apply
wherever in conflict with this code."
   Chapter 35 Reference Standards.
   The following referenced standards are hereby amended by using the edition
indicated:
      NFPA 11: 2016
      NFPA 12: 2015
      NFPA 12A: 2015
      NFPA 13: 2016
      NFPA 13D: 2016
      NFPA 13R: 2016
      NFPA 14: 2016
      NFPA 20: 2016
      NFPA 30: 2015
      NFPA 31: 2016
      NFPA 32: 2016
      NFPA 40: 2016
      NFPA 72: 2016
      NFPA 80: 2016
      NFPA 85: 2015
      NFPA 105: 2016
      NFPA 110: 2016
      NFPA 111: 2016
      NFPA 211: 2016
      NFPA 265: 2015
      NFPA 276: 2015
      NFPA 409: 2016
      NFPA 418: 2016
      NFPA 701: 2015
      NFPA 1124: 2013
(Ord. 16-O-23, 4-5-2016; amd. Ord. 23-O-01, 1-17-2023, eff. 5-1-2023)
7.1.3: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO CITY OF WOODSTOCK RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
   A.   Smoke Detectors: Every single-family and two-family residence shall
have at least one approved smoke detector installed on every floor of the
dwelling unit, including basements, and within crawl spaces that contain
equipment, in every sleeping room, and within fifteen feet (15') of every
sleeping room. Required smoke detectors shall be provided with A/C power from
the building's power supply. Wiring shall be permanent and without a
disconnecting switch other than those required for overcurrent protection.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of a structure to supply and
install all required smoke detectors. In rental units, it shall be the tenant's
responsibility to test and provide general maintenance for the detectors within
the tenant's dwelling unit, and to notify the owner or the owner's agent of any
deficiencies which the tenant cannot correct. The owner shall be responsible
for providing one tenant per dwelling unit with written information regarding
detector testing and maintenance.
   The tenant shall be responsible for replacement of any required batteries in
the smoke detector in the tenant's unit, except that the owner shall ensure
that the smoke detector is in operating condition when the tenant takes
occupancy.
   B.   Amendments to the 2020 International Residential Building Code for One-
and Two-Family Dwellings Amendments are as follows:
   General - Section R101.1 Title.
   Insert: "City of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois"
   Duties and Powers of Building Official - Section R104.1 General.
   Insert at end: "The building official, however, is authorized to approve
minor building alterations, improvements, or changes after making a
determination that such alterations, improvements, or changes do not affect the
safety or structural integrity of a building or structure or negate the intent
of these regulations."
   Permits - Section R105.2 Work Exempt from Permit.
   Insert: "...Permits shall not be required for the following unless otherwise
required by the Woodstock City Code:"
   Under subsection, Building:
   Delete: Items 1,2, 9, and 10.
   Violation Penalties - Section R113.4
   Delete in entirety.
   Insert: Any person who violates a provision of this code or fails to comply
with any of the requirements thereof or who erects, constructs, alters or
repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the building official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code, or without a permit that would
normally be required by this code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable
by a fine of not less than $250.00 or double the permit fee, whichever is
greater."
   Insert: Table R301.2 (1) is hereby amended to read as follows:
a. Ground snow load:                  30 pounds per square foot
b. Wind speed:                        90 mph
c. Seismic design category:           Design category B
d. Weathering:                        Severe
e. Frost line depth:                  42 inches below grade
f. Termite:                           Moderate to heavy
g. Decay:                             Slight to moderate
h. Winter design temperature:         0°F
i. Ice shield underlayment required:  Yes
j. Flood hazards:                     Confirm with Engineering Dept.
k. Air freezing index:                2000
l. Mean annual temperature:           50°F.
 
   Section R302.3 shall read as follows:
   Dwelling units in two-family dwellings shall be separated from each other by
wall and floor assemblies having not less than a 2-hour fire-resistance rating
where tested in accordance with ASTM E119, UL 263 or Section 703.2.2 of the
International Building Code. Such separation shall be provided regardless of
whether a lot line exists between the two dwelling units or not. Fire-
resistance-rated floor/ceiling and wall assemblies shall extend to and be tight
against the exterior wall, and wall assemblies shall extend from the foundation
to the underside of the roof sheathing.
   Exceptions:
   1.   A fire-resistance rating of 1/2 hour shall be permitted in buildings
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance
with Section P2904.
   Section R302.5.1 is amended as follows:
   Openings from a private garage directly into a room used for sleeping
purposes are not permitted. Openings between the garage and the residence shall
be equipped with a minimum one (1) hour fire-rated door.
   Section R302.6 is amended as follows:
   The garage shall be separated from the residence and its attic area by not
less than 5/8" inch type X gypsum board applied to the garage side.
   Section R305.1 is amended as follows:
   Minimum Height. Habitable rooms, hallways, corridors, bathrooms, toilet
rooms, and laundry rooms shall have a ceiling height of not less than eight (8)
feet. The required height shall be measured from the finish floor to the lowest
projection from the ceiling.
   Section R313 is deleted in its entirety.
   Section R315.2.2
   Delete Exceptions 2 and 3.
   Sections R402, R403, R404, R405, R406 and R504 are revised by deleting all
references to "wood foundations."
   Delete Exception.
   Section R506.1 is amended as follows:
   General. Concrete slab-on-ground floors shall be a minimum of three and one-
half (3 1/2") inches thick (for expansive soils, see section R403.1.8). The
minimum thickness for the required slab in a crawl space shall be two (2")
inches.
   Chapters 11 through 43 are deleted in their entirety.
(Ord. 16-O-22, 4-5-2016; amd. Ord. 23-O-01, 1-17-2023, 5-1-2023)
7.1.4: CURRENT ASSESSMENT OF REAL ESTATE:
   A.   Upon issuance of a certificate of occupancy pursuant to the ordinances
of the City, the building inspector shall file an executed certificate of
occupancy with the McHenry County Supervisor of Assessments.
   B.   The City shall obtain from the McHenry assessments a receipt showing
that the certificate of occupancy has been duly filed and that the property is
subject to increased assessment from the date of issuance of the certificate on
a proportionate basis for the year in which the improvement was completed.
Duplicate of the receipt shall be forwarded to the owner of the property. (1986
Code)
7.1.5: PRIVATE DWELLING INSPECTION FEES:
(Rep. by Ord. 08-O-74, 12-2-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
7.1.6: SURVEY REQUIRED:
When a principal building, addition, in-ground pool, or an attached or detached
garage, has been permitted and is under construction, the building permit
holder shall provide the building inspector with a survey indicating the
location of the building's foundation, pool location, or the attached and
detached garage slab/foundation on the building lot. Said survey shall be
prepared by an Illinois registered surveyor and shall be submitted to the
building inspector after required footings have been placed, but prior to the
pouring and/or installation of a building foundation. It shall be the
responsibility of the permit holder to have the required survey prepared and
submitted, and to schedule a foundation prepour inspection with the building
inspector prior to the pouring and/or installation of a foundation, concrete
pool deck, or garage slab and or footing. (Ord. 99-O-9, 2-2-1999, eff. 4-1-
1999; amd. Ord. 23-O-01, 1-17-2023, 5-1-2023)
7.1.7: PERMIT REQUIRED AND FEES:
No construction, alteration, excavation or demolition shall be allowed unless
and until a building permit authorizing such construction, alteration,
excavation or demolition is issued by the Building and Zoning Department. A
permit shall not be issued unless the proposed activity complies with the codes
and ordinances of the City and the required fees are paid. When any work
requiring a building permit starts prior to the issuance of a required permit,
the building permit fees shall be a minimum of fifty-dollars ($50.00) or double
the permit cost, whichever is greater. The schedule of fees is as follows and
shall supersede any previously adopted fees.
   A.   Building Fee:
Residential - new construction: $0.20 per square foot of a dwelling unit or
structure, including shell construction and/or build-out construction.
Residential accessory structures:
 
Sheds/gazebos $25.00
Decks         40.00
Garages       75.00
 
Nonresidential - new construction: $0.15 per square foot of a unit or
structure, including shell construction and/or build-out construction, plus
costs incurred by the City for specialized plan review, engineering, and
inspection activity.
Nonresidential accessory structures: $0.15 per square foot of a new
nonresidential accessory unit or structure, including shell construction and/or
build-out construction.
   B.   Additions, Remodeling:
Residential - alterations or remodeling:
 
Construction Value    Fee
$0.00 - $2,000.00     $15.00
$2,001.00 - $8,000.00 50.00
$8,001.00             Same as new construction
 
Nonresidential - alterations or remodeling:
 
Construction Value    Fee
$0.00 - $2,000.00     $15.00
$2,001.00 - $8,000.00 50.00
$8,001.00             Same as new construction
 
   C.   Plan Review: For projects having a construction value of $10,000.00 or
more:
Residential - new construction, alterations, or remodeling: $100.00 per
dwelling unit or structure.
Nonresidential - new construction, alterations, or remodeling: $250.00 per unit
or structure, including shell construction and/or build-out construction.
   D.   Electrical:
Residential - service upgrade, alterations, or remodeling: $50.00 per dwelling
unit or structure.
Residential - new construction: $100.00 per dwelling unit.
Nonresidential - service upgrade, alterations or remodeling: $100.00 per unit
or structure.
Nonresidential - new construction: $200.00 per new nonresidential unit or
structure, including shell construction and/or build-out construction.
   E.   Plumbing:
Residential - service upgrade, alterations or remodeling: $50.00 per dwelling
unit or structure.
Residential - new construction: $100.00 per dwelling unit.
Nonresidential - service upgrade, alterations or remodeling: $100.00 per unit
or structure.
Nonresidential - new construction: $200.00 per nonresidential unit or
structure, including shell construction and/or build-out construction.
   F.   Heating, Mechanical, Ventilation, And Air Conditioning:
Residential - upgrades or alterations: $50.00 per dwelling unit or structure.
Residential - new construction or remodeling: $50.00 per dwelling unit or
structure, plus $25.00 per appliance.
Nonresidential - upgrades or alterations: $100.00 per unit or structure, plus
$15.00 per each ton air conditioning unit.
Nonresidential - new construction or remodeling: $200.00 per nonresidential
unit or structure, including shell construction and/or build-out construction,
plus $10.00 per flue and per air conditioning unit, plus $50.00 per appliance.
Commercial kitchen hood system: $100.00.
   G.   Fences: $20.00.
   H.   Swimming Pools: Over 1,000 gallons: $50.00 plus applicable electrical
permit fees.
   I.   Elevators: Plan review fee of $100.00 per unit.
New inspections: $100.00 per unit.
Annual follow up inspections: $75.00 per unit.
   J.   Demolition:
Residential - principal building or structure: $100.00.
Nonresidential - principal building or structure: $250.00 plus $0.10 per square
foot of floor area.
A cash deposit in the amount of $2,500.00 shall be required to assure the
filling in of any below grade areas and the restoration and completion of
measures necessary to restore the site to a safe condition. A bond
indemnifying, keeping, and holding the city of Woodstock harmless against any
loss, damage, judgment, or liability of any kind which the city may suffer from
or on account of such demolition is required and shall be in the sum of
$50,000.00 for structures not more than 3 stories in height and $100,000.00 for
structures more than 3 stories in height.
   K.   Building Relocation:
 
Residential - principal building or structure    $100.00
Nonresidential - principal building or structure 250.00
 
   L.   Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy:
 
Residential    100.00
Nonresidential 250.00
 
   M.   Certificate Of Occupancy:
 
Residential    50.00
Nonresidential 100.00
 
   N.   Inspections: In addition to all fees contained herein, the following
fees shall be charged for additional inspections due to faulty workmanship,
faulty materials, or incomplete work, and shall be paid prior to a final
inspection or the issuance of a certificate of occupancy:
 
Initial inspection  No fee
First reinspection  No fee
Second reinspection $25.00
 
Each additional reinspection: $50.00 or inspector's hourly rate of compensation
for a minimum time period of 1 hour or portion thereof, whichever is greater.
   O.   Reserved.
   P.   Reserved.
   Q.   Reserved.
   R.   Water Connection Fees:
[missing table]
   S.   Water Meter Fees:
 
5/8 inch meter with remote reader  220.00
3/4 inch meter with remote reader  250.00
1 inch meter with remote reader    300.00
11/2 inch meter with remote reader 500.00
 
   T.   Water Tap Fee:
 
First 1 inch tap 10.00
Additional taps  5.00
 
   U.   Sewer Connection Fees:
Efficiency, studio, 1 bedroom apartment                             415.00
2 and 3 bedroom apartments                                          830.00
Single-family dwelling                                              970.00
For each commercial/industrial structure with:                       
less than a 1 inch meter                                            970.00
less than a 1 1/2 inch meter                                        1,600.00
less than a 2 inch meter                                            3,190.00
a 2 inch meter                                                      5,100.00
larger than a 2 inch meter - fee is based on a unit charge of $2.69
per gallon per day for all gallons over 350 gallons per day as       
determined by metered consumption data supplied by the owner/
developer
 
   V.   Sewer Connection Inspection:    $10.00 per connection
   W.   Fire Protection Systems:
1. Sprinkler Systems:                                         
a.   Pipe schedule sprinkler system review fee            $75.00
b.   Hydraulically calculated systems review fee          The cost of the
                                                             plan review
c.   Inspection and testing fees for fire sprinkler system 
                                                             $30.00 per hour,
      Underground lead-in flushing                     with a 2 hour
                                                             minimum
                                                             $30.00 per hour,
      Hydraulic testing/inspection                     with a 2 hour
                                                             minimum
                                                             $30.00 per hour,
      Final system inspection                          with a 2 hour
                                                             minimum
                                                             $30.00 per hour,
      Dry system add on                                with a 2 hour
                                                             minimum
                                                             $30.00 per hour,
      Antifreeze system add on                         with a 2 hour
                                                             minimum
                                                             $30.00 per hour,
      Deluge system add on                             with a 2 hour
                                                             minimum
                                                             $30.00 per hour,
      Fire pump testing                                with a 2 hour
                                                             minimum
                                                             $30.00 per hour,
      Preaction system inspection                      with a 2 hour
                                                             minimum
                                                             $25.00 per hour,
      Each additional site inspection                  with a $25.00
                                                             minimum
2. Fire Alarm Systems:                                        
a.   Review fee:                                           
      Minimum fee (includes 10 initiating and 10 alarm $100.00
devices)
      Each additional initiating and/or alarm device   $1.00
                                                             $30.00 per hour,
b.   Testing fee                                          with a 3 hour
                                                             minimum
3. Other Fixed Fire Suppression Systems:                      
a.   Review fee                                           The cost of the
                                                             plan review
                                                             $30.00 per hour,
b.   Fire suppression system final inspection             with a 3 hour
                                                             minimum
                                                             $30.00 per hour,
c.   Reinspection of fire suppression system              with a 2 hour
                                                             minimum
d.   Administrative fee for all fire protection system    $100.00
reviews
 
   X.   All building permit fees required by section
7.1.7 of the Woodstock City Code, and all impact fees required by Chapter 10 of
the Woodstock Unified Development Ordinance shall be and hereby are reduced by
fifty percent (50%), but only in accordance with the following conditions:
      1.   Said fee reduction shall only apply to building permits for new,
single-family detached dwellings issued by the City after the effective date of
this section.
      2.   Construction shall be substantially started within three (3) months
of the date of building permit issuance. If construction does not start within
the three (3) month time frame, the building permit shall expire and become
null and void. An applicant may request a refund of all building permit fees
paid for said permit, minus a five hundred dollar ($500.00) administrative fee,
but any subsequent building permit applications for a new single-family home on
the same property shall not be eligible for the fee reductions authorized
herein.
      3.   Construction must be completed and an occupancy permit issued within
twelve (12) months of building permit issuance. If construction is not
completed within the twelve (12) month time frame, a permit extension shall be
required. Permit extensions may be granted by the City Manager, in one-month
increments only, and subject to a fee of ten percent (10%) of the initial
building permit cost for each month until occupancy is granted, not to exceed
the full cost of the permit. Exceptions may be granted for extenuating
circumstances at the discretion of the City Manager or City Manager's designee.
      4.   Applicants receiving the fifty percent (50%) reduction of building
permit and impact fees shall not be eligible for the City's Impact Fee Deferral
Program, as established in City of Woodstock Resolution 19-R-19. (Ord. 2462, 3-
15-1994, eff. 4-1-1994; amd. Ord. 2569, 7-18-1995; Ord. 99-O-8, 2-2-1999, eff.
4-1-1999; Ord. 99-O-9, 2-2-1999, eff. 4-1-1999; Ord. 03-O-08, 1-21-2003; Ord.
17-O-64, 7-18-2017; Ord. 21-O-36, 6-1-2021; Ord. 23-O-01, 1-17-2023, eff. 5-1-
2023)
7.1.8: BUILDING OPERATION:
No construction or alteration operations shall be conducted before the hour of
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or after the hour of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Monday
through Saturday, or before the hour of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. or after the
hour of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on Sundays or legal holidays, if such
operation by its nature will alarm or disturb another or create a disturbance
of the peace. Legal holidays shall consist of New Year's Day, Memorial Day, the
Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day. (Ord. 2591, 10-
3-1995; amd. Ord. 99-O-9, 2-2-1999, eff. 4-1-1999)
7.1.9: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Compliance: No building permit required by this chapter shall be issued
unless the provisions of this chapter and chapter 8 of this title, pertaining
to the Central Business District Commission and the Site Plan Review
Commission, respectively, have been complied with. (Ord. 2395, 2-2-1993; amd.
Ord. 99-O-9, 2-2-1999, eff. 4-1-1999)
   B.   Monotony Regulations:
      1.   No building permit shall be issued for any new single-family
detached dwelling unit or duplex dwelling unit, which is similar in appearance
to any dwelling on the same street and within a distance of three hundred feet
(300') of it.
      2.   A dwelling unit on a corner lot may be considered dissimilar to
another if the two (2) dwellings face different streets. On a cul-de-sac
turnaround, no dwelling shall be similar in appearance to another dwelling on
the turnaround.
      3.   For purposes of measurement, the three hundred foot (300')
separation distance shall be measured between the nearest points on a lot or
parcel line.
      4.   For purposes of this subsection, the term "similar in appearance"
shall mean a dwelling which is identical or nearly identical. A variety of
characteristics, including, but not limited to, roof type and height, location
of windows and doors, and location and measurements of garage doors, may be
used when determining the presence of monotony.
      5.   If lots within three hundred feet (300') of each other have
different housing styles, including, but not limited to, ranch, bilevel,
trilevel, one and one-half (11/2) story, two-story or three-story, the
difference in housing styles may be significant enough to constitute a
dissimilarity.
      6.   Snout houses, as well as similar residential dwellings where a front
load garage is the dominant feature of a front facade, are discouraged.
      7.   The regulations set forth in this subsection B shall be administered
by the building inspector and compliance with said regulations shall be
determined when an application for building plan approval and permit issuance
has been submitted to the City for approval. (Ord. 07-O-33, 4-3-2007)
   C.   Portion Of Driveway Between Edge Of Street And Property Line: That
portion of a driveway serving a property, located between the edge of the
street pavement or back of curb and the edge of the property line or sidewalk
in front of said property, shall be constructed of concrete, brick, asphalt or
other acceptable paving material approved by the development engineer. (Ord.
2395, 2-2-1993; amd. Ord. 99-O-9, 2-2-1999, eff. 4-1-1999)
   D.   Siltation Fencing: Sites used for new construction activity or similar
land disturbing activities shall be protected with siltation fencing and/or
similar measures in order to control and minimize soil erosion and
sedimentation. (Ord. 2451, 12-21-1993, eff. 1-2-1994; amd. Ord. 99-O-9, 2-2-
1999, eff. 4-1-1999)
7.1.10: DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS:
No building may be demolished or razed unless a permit has been issued by the
building inspector. Applications for such a permit shall include the following:
   A.   A description of the structure to be demolished and the method and
procedure of its proposed demolition.
   B.   A cash deposit of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) to assure the
filling in of any below grade areas and completion of other measures necessary
to restore the premises to a safe condition following completion of the
proposed demolition.
   C.   Releases from all utility companies serving the premises stating that
their respective services have been terminated in a safe and approved manner.
   D.   Such other information as may be required by the building inspector.
(Ord. 2395, 2-2-1993; amd. Ord. 99-O-9, 2-2-1999, eff. 4-1-1999)
7.1.11: FENCES:
(Rep. by Ord. 06-O-93, 12-5-2006)
7.1.12: APPEALS:
Appeals to a decision of the Building and Zoning Officer and/or building
inspector may be presented to and recommended by the Board of Building
Construction and approved by the City Council. (Ord. 2395, 2-2-1993; amd. Ord.
99-O-9, 2-2-1999, eff. 4-1-1999)
7.1.13: PERMIT EXPIRATION:
Except as otherwise provided herein, all building permits shall become invalid
and expire if authorized work is not commenced or substantial progress has not
been made within six (6) months of permit issuance, or if the authorized work
is suspended or abandoned for six (6) months following the commencement of such
work. "Substantial progress" is defined as construction which has proceeded to
at least the inspection of framing, plumbing and wiring before the enclosure of
the interior walls. In the event substantial progress has been made, the permit
shall be valid for a period of eighteen (18) months following its issuance.
A sign permit shall become invalid and expire after one hundred twenty (120)
days following its issuance.
After a building or sign permit has expired, no work may be undertaken unless
the permit has been extended or a new permit has been issued. A permit holder
may request, in writing, an extension of a building or sign permit for up to an
additional six (6) months, provided that said request is submitted at least
thirty (30) days prior to the permit expiration date. The City Manager may, in
his or her sole discretion, grant a permit extension or may waive the 30-day
notice requirement if the permit holder can show good cause for not completing
said work or for not submitting the request in a timely manner. However,
notwithstanding this section, the City is not obligated to extend any permit.
(Ord. 17-O-64, 7-18-2017)
7.1.14: ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: The International Fire Code, 2021 edition, is hereby
adopted as the Fire Prevention Code for the City, for the control of buildings,
structures and premises as provided herein; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said International
Fire Code, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully
set out in this section, with additions, insertions, deletions, and changes
prescribed in subsection B of this section. All other ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed to the extent of such
conflict.
   B.   Additions, Insertions, And Changes: The following sections of the
International Fire Code, 2021 edition, are hereby revised as follows:
   General - Section 101.1 Title.
   Insert (second line): "City of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois"
   General - Section 101.6 Referenced Codes and Standards.
   Insert: "101.6 Referenced Codes and Standards. Where the following codes and
standards are indicated within the International Fire Code they shall be
replaced as indicated:
   1.   International Plumbing Code - replace with the Illinois State Plumbing
Code (latest edition)
   2.   ICC Electrical Code - replace with the National Electrical Code (the
edition as adopted by the City of Woodstock)"
   Code Compliance Agency- Section 103.1 Creation of Agency.
   Insert: Fire Prevention Bureau of the Woodstock Fire Rescue District
   Code Compliance Agency- Section 103.2 Appointment.
   Insert: Woodstock Fire Rescue District
   General Authority and Responsibilities - Section 104.1 General.
   Insert at end: "The fire code official, however, is authorized to approve
minor building alterations, improvements, or changes after making a
determination that such alterations, improvements, or changes do not affect the
safety or structural integrity of a building or structure or negate the intent
of these regulations."
   Permits - Section 105.1.1 Permits Required.
   Insert: "Permits required by this code, or by the Woodstock City Code..."
   Maintenance - Section 109.3 Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance Reports.
   Delete second paragraph.
   Insert: "Contractors conducting required periodic testing shall file
required test and inspection records via www.InspcctionReportsOnline.net AHJ
ILA11349 as follows:
   1.   Within 10 business days following the required test and inspection if
there are no impairments found during the testing and inspection of the system
or equipment.
   2.   Within 3 business days following the required test and inspection if
the testing and inspection indicates any impairment(s) to the system or
equipment."
   Board of Appeals - Section 111 Board of Appeals.
   Delete: Sections 111.1 through 111.3.
   Insert: "111.1 Board of Building Construction: Any person shall have the
right to appeal to the City of Woodstock board of building construction a
decision of the application and interpretation of this code by the code
official. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted or the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or
an equivalent or better form of construction is proposed.
   The establishment of the Board of Building Construction, its membership and
their terms, frequency of meetings, and the board's powers and duties shall be
as indicated in the City Code of the City of Woodstock."
   Violations - Section 112.4 Violation Penalties.
   Insert: Offense "misdemeanor"
   Insert: Amount "$500.00"
   Delete: "...or by imprisonment not exceeding (number of days), or both such
fine and imprisonment."
   Stop Work Order - Section 113.4 Failure to Comply.
   Insert: "...shall be subject to fines of $25.00 or more than $500.00
dollars."
   Definitions - Section 502.1 Definitions.
   Fire Lane: Insert: "...other than fire apparatus. Fire lanes shall be
constructed of an asphalt or concrete surface capable of supporting a vehicle
weight of 75,000 pounds and shall be of a design approved by the City
Engineer."
   High-Rise Building:
   Delete "75 feet": Insert "50 feet"
   Fire Apparatus Access Roads - Section 503 Fire Apparatus Access Roads.
   Delete Section 503.
   Insert "Fire Apparatus Access Roads shall comply with the provisions of
Appendix D."
   Key Boxes - Section 506.1 Where Required.
   Delete: "...The key box shall be of an approved type and shall contain keys
to gain access as required by the code official."
   Insert: "...in an accessible location. The key box shall be mounted 5' from
grade on an improved surface with illumination provided. Where access to the
sprinkler and/or fire alarm control panel is remote from the main entrance, a
second key box shall be provided. The key box shall be purchased from the
Woodstock Fire/Rescue District and shall be installed in a location approved by
the fire district. Building master and fire alarm system access keys shall be
provided as requested by the fire department."
   Fire Department Access to Equipment - Section 509.1 Identification and
Lighting.
   Insert: "509.1 Identification and Lighting."
   Delete: Current verbiage.
   Insert: "All doors providing access to fire sprinkler riser control valves
rooms and the main fire alarm control panel room shall be labeled "Sprinkler
Controls" and/or "Fire Alarm Controls or FACP" as appropriate. Illumination
shall be provided within all fire sprinkler and fire alarm control rooms, and
in the immediate vicinity of all equipment not provided within a dedicated
room, in accordance with section 1008.1."
   General - Section 901.6.3 Records.
   Insert: "...shall be maintained and periodic inspection, test, and
maintenance reports shall be filed with the AHJ per Section 109.3 as amended."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.1 General.
   Delete: First paragraph.
   Insert: Automatic sprinkler systems shall comply with this section. New
construction activity (excluding the remodeling or alteration of existing
buildings and structures and not involving a change in use) for all use groups
having a fire area exceeding five-thousand (5,000) or more square feet shall be
required to install an automatic sprinkler system, except as follows:
   When additions are made to an existing building or structure having an
existing fire area of five-thousand (5,000) square feet or less, and when such
additions result in the building or structure having an aggregate fire area of
seventy-five-hundred (7,500) or more square feet, an automatic sprinkler system
is required and shall be provided.
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.1.1 Group A-1.
   Subsection 1: Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Where a single fire area, aggregate of all fire areas, or where the
aggregate area of a building or structure separated by a fire wall or fire
walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.1.2 Group A-2.
   Subsection 1: Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Where a single fire area, aggregate of all fire areas, or where the
aggregate area of a building or structure separated by a fire wall or fire
walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.1.3 Group A-3.
   Subsection 1: Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Where a single fire area, aggregate of all fire areas, or where the
aggregate area of a building or structure separated by a fire wall or fire
walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.1.4 Group A-4.
   Subsection 1: Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Where a single fire area, aggregate of all fire areas, or where the
aggregate area of a building or structure separated by a fire wall or fire
walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.3 Group E.
   Subsection 1: Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Where a single fire area, aggregate of all fire areas, or where the
aggregate area of a building or structure separated by a fire wall or fire
walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet." Delete: Exception
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.4 Group F-1 and F-2.
   Insert: "903.2.4 Groups F-1 and F-2"
   Insert: "...a group F-1 or F-2..."
   Item 1. Revise to read: "Where a group F-1 or F-2 single fire area,
aggregate of all fire areas, or where the aggregate area of a building or
structure separated by a fire wall or fire walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet."
   Item 2. Revise to read: "Where a group F-1 or F-2 fire area is located more
than two stories above grade plane."
   Item 3. Delete.
   Insert: "Exception: One-story, group F-2 buildings meeting the requirements
of section 507.3."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.7 Group B or M.
   Insert: "903.2.7 Groups B or M"
   Insert: "a group B or M..."
   Item 1. Revise to read: "Where a group B or M single fire area, aggregate of
all fire areas, or where the aggregate area of a building or structure
separated by a fire wall or fire walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet."
   Item 2. Revise to read: "Where a group B or M fire area is located more than
two stories above grade plane."
   Item 3. Delete.
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.9 Group S-1 And S-2.
   Insert: "903.2.9 Groups S-1 And S-2"
   Insert: "...a group S-1 or S-2..."
   Item 1. Revise to read: "Where a group S-1 or S-2 single fire area,
aggregate of all fire areas, or where the aggregate area of a building or
structure separated by a fire wall or fire walls, exceeds 5,000 square feet
including any mezzanines."
   Item 2. Revise to read: "Where a group S-1 or S-2 fire area is located more
than two stories above grade plane."
   Item 3. Delete.
   Insert: "Exception: One-story, group S-2 buildings meeting the requirements
of section 507.3."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.9.1 Repair Garages.
   Item 1. Delete: "...10,000..."
   Insert: "...5,000..."
   Item 2. Delete: "...12,000..."
   Insert: "...5,000..."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.10 Parking Garages.
   Rename section title: Delete: "Group S-2"
   Insert: "Parking Garages"
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.2.11.3 Buildings 50 Feet or More
in Height.
   Rename section title: Delete: "55 feet"
   Insert: "50 feet"
   Delete: "...55 feet..."
   Insert: "...50 feet..."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.3.1.1.1 Exempt Locations.
   Delete: Exception 4.
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - 903.3.5 Water Supplies.
   Insert new section: "903.3.5.3 Hydraulic Design Safety Factor. All new
sprinkler system designs shall include a safety factor of 5 pounds above the
required operating pressure of any calculated system."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.4.1 Monitoring.
   Delete: "...an approved supervising station...or proprietary supervising
   station..." or, when approved by the fire code official, shall sound an
audible signal at a constantly attended location."
   Insert: "...a remote supervising station at the Woodstock Police Department,
via the City of Woodstock's radio network..."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.4.2 Alarms.
   Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Approved audible and visual alarm appliances in the form of an
approved 10-inch exterior bell and a white/clear, 75 cd, weatherproof strobe
light shall be provided on the exterior of the building above the fire
department sprinkler or standpipe connection; and, an approved 6-inch interior
bell and a white 75 cd strobe light shall be provided within the building
immediately outside of the sprinkler riser room when one is present or in a
location approved by the fire department. These appliances shall only activate
with the activation of a water-flow alarm device which shall be activated
within 90-seconds by water flow equivalent to the flow of a single sprinkler of
the smallest orifice size in the system. Where a fire alarm system is
installed, actuation of the automatic fire sprinkler system shall actuate the
building fire alarm system."
   Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Section 903.4.3 Floor Control Valves.
   Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Approved water-flow alarm devices and approved supervised
indicating control valves shall be provided at the point of connection to the
riser on each floor of the building."
   Alternative Automatic Fire-Extinguishing Systems - Section 904.3.5
Monitoring.
   Insert: "...The building fire alarm system shall be supervised as required
in 903.4.1 as amended above. When a fire alarm system is not provided within
the building, any provided required alternative fire extinguishing system shall
be monitored as required in 903.4.1 as amended above."
   Standpipe Systems - Section 905.3.1 Building Height.
   Delete: "Class III standpipe"
   Insert: "Class I standpipe"
   Delete: "...30 feet..." two locations
   Insert: "...18 feet..." two locations
   Delete: Exceptions 1 through 5.
   Standpipe Systems - Section 905.4 Location of Class I Standpipe Hose
Connection.
   Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: "Class I standpipe hose connections, consisting of a 2 1/2-inch
valve and connection with a 2 1/2 inch by 1 1/2 inch reducing cap, shall be
provided in all of the following locations:"
   Portable Fire Extinguishers - Section 906.1 Where Required.
   Delete: "...installed in the following locations."
   Insert: "...installed in all building and structures and the following
locations."
   Delete: Exceptions.
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.1.4 Secondary Power Supply.
   Insert: "907.1.4. Secondary Power Supply. All fire alarm control equipment
shall be provided with 60-hours of secondary power supply."
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.1.5 Duct Smoke Detection.
   Insert: "907.1.5. Duct Smoke Detection. Duct smoke detection provided or
required by this, or other applicable codes, shall receive their power directly
from an initiating device circuit or signal line circuit from the building fire
alarm control unit when one is provided.
   Duct smoke detectors shall be installed in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions and shall be located within the building space in
ambient conditions consistent with the listing of the duct detector.
   Duct detectors shall be provided with remote alarm indicators and test
switches located as directed by the Woodstock Fire/Rescue District."
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.1.6 Automatic Fire Alarm
System.
   Insert: "907.1.6 Where an automatic fire alarm system is required, detection
shall be provided in accordance with NFPA 72 throughout all occupiable spaces
within the building, and those areas required by other codes or standards."
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Sections 907.2.1 Group A, 907.2.2 Group
B, and 907.2.4 Group F.
   Delete: Exception.
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.2.3 Group E.
   Delete: Exceptions 3 and 4.
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - 907.2.7 Group M.
   Delete: Exception 2.
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.2.8.1 Group R-1 Manual Fire
Alarm System.
   Delete: Exception 2.
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.2.9 Group R-2.
   Item 1. Delete: "...three ..."
   Insert: "...two ..."
   Delete item 3.
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.2.10 Group S
   Delete: Exception.
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.6.3.1 Fire Alarm
Annunciators.
   Delete: Current section verbiage.
   Insert: 907.6.3.1 When the main fire alarm control equipment is not located
at the entrance to the building used by the fire district, a remote
annunciator, compatible with the fire alarm control unit, shall be provided in
a location approved by the fire district.
   Fire alarm annunciators shall have the capability, when activated by the
fire district with the use of a key, to provide the following functions:
   1.   Alarm acknowledgment.
   2.   Alarm silence.
   3.   Alarm reset."
   Annunciation from multiple tenant building shall be provided when a fire
alarm control unit supervises signals from multiple tenant spaces or dwelling
unit buildings, each with their own individual entrance, in a one-story
building, the following requirements shall apply:
   1.   Each tenant space, or dwelling unit entrance, shall be provided with an
exterior mounted, weather-proof, clear or nominal white lens, 75 cd strobe
light over the main entrance to the space.
   2.   Tenant space, or dwelling unit common area, initiating devices and
notification appliances shall be zoned separately by the fire alarm control
unit.
   3.   In buildings provided with an automatic sprinkler system, waterflow
activation in a specific tenant space, or dwelling unit area, shall report as a
waterflow activation from the space.
      Exception: Area detection throughout the tenant space may be substituted
for item 3 if the area detection reports an activation from the space. The
exception does not apply to dwelling unit buildings.
   4.   Upon activation of an initiating device, with the exception of a
waterflow device, within a tenant space or dwelling unit common area, the
notification appliances within the space, and the exterior clear lens shall
activate for the space.
   5.   Upon the activation of a waterflow device in any tenant space, dwelling
unit area, or the main waterflow device if provided, all interior and exterior
notification appliances shall activate.
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.6.4 Zones.
   Delete: Current section verbiage but maintain the exception.
   Insert: "For conventional (zone) fire alarm control panels, each floor of a
building shall be zoned separately and each type of device shall be zoned
separately on each floor. A zone shall not exceed 22,500 square feet. The
length of any zone shall not exceed 300-feet in any direction.
   For addressable fire alarm control units, point identification shall be
provided for each initiating device shall be addressed separately except that
like supervisory devices, with the exception of fire pump monitoring, may be on
a single identification address if located within the same room or space
subject to the approval of the fire code official.
   Each duct smoke detector shall be installed on its own zone or address."
   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems - Section 907.6.6 Monitoring.
   Delete: Current text.
   Insert: "Where a fire alarm system is required by this chapter, the system
shall be monitored in accordance with 903.4.1 as amended."
   Fire Department Connections - Section 912.3 Hose Threads.
   Insert: "All required fire department connections shall be provided with
two- 2 1/2-inch connections with NST threads."
   Fire Department Connections - Section 912.8 Fire Hydrant Location.
   Insert: "A fire hydrant, on a 6-inch (minimum size) distribution water main
served by the municipal water system, shall be located within 100 feet of the
fire department connection in a location approved by the Woodstock Fire/Rescue
District."
   Doors, Gates and Turnstiles - Section 1010.2.4 Locks and Latches.
   Delete: Item 3
   General - Section 5601.1 Scope.
   Insert: "...ammunition.
   Establishment of Limits: The limits in which the storage of explosive
materials is prohibited are hereby established as follows:
   That the storage, handling or use of explosives within the City of Woodstock
is prohibited without special and specific approval of the City Council of the
City of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois.
   Chapter 80 Reference Standards.
   The following referenced standards are hereby amended by using the edition
indicated:
   NFPA 02: 2019
   NFPA 11: 2016
   NFPA 12: 2018
   NFPA 12A: 2018
   NFPA 13: 2019
   NFPA 13D: 2019
   NFPA 13R: 2019
   NFPA 14: 2019
   NFPA 20: 2019
   NFPA 24: 2019
   NFPA 31: 2020
   NFPA 32: 2016
   NFPA 35: 2016
   NFPA 40: 2019
   NFPA 55: 2019
   NFPA 56: 2020
   NFPA 72: 2019
   NFPA 80: 2019
   NFPA 105: 2019
   NFPA 110: 2019
   NFPA 111: 2019
   NFPA 160: 2021
   NFPA 211: 2016
   NFPA 265: 2019
   NFPA 303: 2021
   NFPA 326: 2020
   NFPA 400: 2019
   NFPA 409: 2016
   NFPA 410: 2020
   NFPA 701: 2019
   NFPA 914: 2019
   NFPA 1124: 2017
   NFPA 1126: 2021
   Appendix B Fire-Flow Requirements for Buildings.
   Appendix B shall be a mandatory requirement.
   Appendix C Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution.
   Appendix C shall be a mandatory requirement.
   Appendix D Fire Apparatus Access Roads.
   Appendix D shall be a mandatory requirement.
   Fire Apparatus Access Roads- D102.1 Access and Loading
   Delete: "approved" and "or other approved driving surface".
   Insert: ".. .up to 75,000 pounds and shall be of a design approved by the
City Engineer."
(Ord. 99-O-27, 5-18-1999; amd. Ord. 23-O-02, 1-17-2023, eff. 5-1-2023)
7.1.15: ADOPTION OF MECHANICAL CODE:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: The International Mechanical Code, 2021 edition, as
published by the International Code Council, shall be and is hereby adopted as
the mechanical code for the City, for the control of buildings and structures
as provided herein; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said International Mechanical Code, are hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with
additions, insertions, deletions and changes prescribed in subsection B of this
section.
   B.   Additions, Insertions, And Changes: The following sections of the
International Mechanical Code, 2021 edition, are hereby revised as follows:
   General - Section 101.1 Title.
   Insert (second line): "City of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois"
   Duties and Powers of the Code Official - Section 104.2.
   Insert at end: "The code official, however, is authorized to approve minor
building alterations, improvements, or changes after making a determination
that such alterations, improvements, or changes do not affect the safety or
structural integrity of a building or structure or negate the intent of these
regulations."
   Permits - Section 106.5.2 Fee Schedule.
   Delete in entirety. Insert: "The fees for mechanical work shall be as set
forth in the Woodstock City Code, as amended."
   Permits - Section 106.5.3 Fee Refunds
   Deleted in entirety.
   Violations - Section 108.4 Violation Penalties.
   Insert: Offense "misdemeanor"
   Insert: Amount "$500.00"
   Delete: "...or by imprisonment not exceeding (number of days), or both such
fine and imprisonment."
   Violations - Section 108.5 Stop Work Orders.
   Insert: "...$25.00 or more than $500.00 dollars."
   Insert: "... shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not
less than $250.00 or double the permit fee, whichever is greater."
   Board of Appeals - Section 109 Board of Appeals.
   Delete: Sections 109.1 through 109.7.
   Insert: "109.1 Board of Building
   Construction: Any person shall have the right to appeal to the City of
Woodstock Board of Building Construction a decision of the application and
interpretation of this code by the code official. An application for appeal
shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules
legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted or the provisions
of this code do not fully apply. The establishment of the Board of Building
Construction, its membership and their terms, frequency of meetings, and the
board's powers and duties shall be as indicated in the City Code of the City of
Woodstock."
   Chapter 15 Reference Standards.
   The following referenced standards are hereby amended by using the edition
indicated:
      NFPA 31: 2020
      NFPA 72: 2019
(Ord. 99-O-28, 5-18-1999; Ord. 03-O-46, 6-17-2003; Ord. 08-O-75, 12-2-2008,
eff. 1-1-2009; Ord. 16-O-21, 4-5-2016; amd. Ord. 23-O-03, 1-17-2023, eff. 5-1-
2023)
7.1.16: ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: The International Property Maintenance Code, 2021
edition, as published by the International Code Council, shall be and is hereby
adopted as the property maintenance code for the City with additions,
insertions, deletions and changes prescribed in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Additions, Insertions, And Changes: The following sections of the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2021 edition, are hereby revised as
follows:
      1.   All references to the International Plumbing Code are replaced with
the Illinois State Plumbing Code. Plumbing standards and specifications set
forth in the most recent edition of the Illinois State Plumbing Code shall
supersede those found in the International Property Maintenance Code, as herein
adopted.
      2.   All references to the ICC Electrical Code are replaced with National
Electrical Code. Electrical standards and specifications set forth in the
National Electrical Code, 2020 Edition, shall supersede those found in the
International Property Maintenance Code, as herein adopted.
      3.   All references to the International Zoning Code are replaced with
the zoning regulations set forth in the current edition of the City of
Woodstock Unified Development Ordinance.
      4.   Section 101.1: Insert: City of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois.
      5.   Section 104: Delete.
      6.   Section 302.4: Insert: eight (8") inches.
      7.   Section 304.14: Insert: April 1st and October 31st.
      8.   Sections 602.2, 602.3, and 602.4: Delete.
(Ord. 16-O-22, 4-5-2016; amd. Ord. 23-O-04, 1-17-2023, eff. 5-1-2023)
7.1.17: ADOPTION OF FUEL GAS CODE:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: The International Fuel Gas Code, 2021 edition, as
published by the International Code Council, shall be and is hereby adopted as
the Fuel Gas Code for the City, for the control of buildings and structures as
provided herein; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Fuel Gas Code, are hereby referred to, adopted and
made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with additions,
insertions, deletions and changes prescribed in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Additions, Insertions, And Changes: The following sections of the
International Fuel Gas Code, 2021 edition, are hereby revised as follows:
   General - Section 101.1 Title.
   Insert (second line): "City of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois"
   Duties and Powers of the Code Official - Section 104.2.
   Insert at end: "The code official; however, is authorized to approve minor
building alterations, improvements, or changes after making a determination
that such alterations, improvements, or changes do not affect the safety or
structural integrity of a building or structure or negate the intent of these
regulations."
   Permits - Section 109 Fee Schedule.
   Delete in entirety. Insert: "The fees for fuel gas mechanical work shall be
as set forth in the Woodstock City Code, as amended."
   Permits - Section 109.6 Fee Refunds
   Deleted in entirety.
   Violations - Section 115.4 Violation Penalties.
   Insert: Offense "misdemeanor"
   Insert: Amount "$500.00"
   Delete: "...or by imprisonment not exceeding (number of days), or both such
fine and imprisonment."
   Board of Appeals - Section 114 Board of Appeals.
   Insert: "114.1 Board of Building Construction: Any person shall have the
right to appeal to the City of Woodstock Board of Building Construction a
decision of the application and interpretation of this code by the code
official. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted or the provisions of this code do not fully apply. The
establishment of the Board of Building Construction, its membership and their
terms, frequency of meetings, and the board's powers and duties shall be as
indicated in the City Code of the City of Woodstock."
(Ord. 16-O-21, 4-5-2016; amd. Ord. 23-O-03, 1-17-2023, eff. 5-1-2023)
7.1.18: ADOPTION OF EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: The International Existing Building Code, 2021
edition, as published by the International Code Council, shall be and is hereby
adopted as the mechanical code for the City, for the control of buildings and
structures as provided herein; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said International Existing Building Code,
are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this section, with additions, insertions, deletions and changes prescribed in
subsection B of this section.
   B.   Additions, Insertions, And Changes: The following sections of the
International Existing Building Code, 2021 edition, are hereby revised as
follows:
   General - Section 101.1 Title.
   Insert (second line): "City of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois"
   Duties and Powers of the Code Official - Section 104.2.
   Insert at end: "The code official, however, is authorized to approve minor
building alterations, improvements, or changes after making a determination
that such alterations, improvements, or changes do not affect the safety or
structural integrity of a building or structure or negate the intent of these
regulations."
   Board of Appeals - Section 112 Board of Appeals.
   Delete: Sections 112.1 through 112.4
   Insert: "112.1 Board of Building Construction: Any person shall have the
right to appeal to the City of Woodstock Board of Building Construction a
decision of the application and interpretation of this code by the code
official. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted or the provisions of this code do not fully apply. The
establishment of the Board of Building Construction, its membership and their
terms, frequency of meetings, and the board's powers and duties shall be as
indicated in the City Code of the City of Woodstock."
   Accessibility for Existing Buildings - Section 306.2 Design.
   Insert "...and the alteration and existing buildings provisions of the
Illinois Accessibility Code, latest edition".
   Sections 306.3 through 306.7.16.7.
   Delete.
(Ord. 16-O-21, 4-5-2016; amd. Ord. 23-O-03, 1-17-2023, eff. 5-1-2023)
7.1.19: ADOPTION OF SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: The International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2021
edition, as published by the International Code Council, shall be and is hereby
adopted as the swimming pool and spa code for the City, for the control of
buildings and structures as provided herein; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said International
Swimming Pool and Spa, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof,
as if fully set out in this section, with additions, insertions, deletions and
changes prescribed in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Additions, Insertions, And Changes: The following sections of the
International Swimming Pool and Spa, 2021 edition, are hereby revised as
follows:
   General - Section 101.1 Title.
   Insert (second line): "City of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois"
   Code Compliance Agency - Section 101.1 Creation of Agency.
   Insert: "City of Woodstock Building and Zoning Department"
   Duties and Powers of the Code Official - Section 104.2.
   Insert at end: "The code official, however, is authorized to approve minor
alterations, improvements, or changes after making a determination that such
alterations, improvements, or changes do not affect the safety or structural
integrity of a building or structure or negate the intent of these
regulations."
   Board of Appeals - Section 108 Board of Appeals.
   Delete Sections 108.1 through 108.7
   Insert: "108.1. Board of Building Construction: Any person shall have the
right to appeal to the city of Woodstock Board of Building Construction a
decision of the application and interpretation of this code by the code
official. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted or the provisions of this code do not fully apply. The
establishment of the Board of Building Construction, its membership and their
terms, frequency of meetings, and the board's powers and duties shall be as
indicated in the city code of the City of Woodstock."
(Ord. 16-O-23, 4-5-2016; amd. Ord. 23-O-04, 1-17-2023, eff. 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
7.2.1: National Electrical Code
7.2.2: License Requirements
7.2.3: Permit Requirements
7.2.4: Inspections
7.2.5: Construction Requirements (Rep. by Ord. 09-O-24, 4-21-2009, eff. 5-1-
2009)
7.2.6: Municipal Electrical Equipment
7.2.7: Temporary Service For Construction
7.2.8: Records
7.2.1: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: The National Electrical Code (2020 edition) is hereby
adopted as the electrical code of the City of Woodstock, subject to the
additions, insertions and changes provided in subsection B.
   B.   Additions, Insertions, And Changes:
      1.   Conduits:
         a.   Wiring exposed in an unfinished basement shall be in rigid,
intermediate or thinwall metal conduit.
         b.   Above ground electrical services must be in galvanized rigid or
intermediate metal conduit only and installed in accordance with the height and
location requirements set forth in the national electrical code.
         c.   No conduit smaller than three-fourths inch (3/4") shall be
installed underground.
      2.   Armored Cable:
         a.   Type AC wire, commonly referred to as "BX wire," may only be used
in one- and two-family residential dwellings. Wiring in residential buildings
greater than two-family shall be in conduit.
         b.   In one- and two-family residential dwellings, type AC wire may be
used in an unfinished basement ceiling if the ceiling is sealed before
occupancy. Where additional outlets are to be installed in dwellings that
already have the basements wired in AC, AC wire may be used for the additional
outlets.
      3.   Section 334.10 Uses Permitted: One-family dwellings and their
attached or detached garages, and their storage buildings.
   Delete: (2) through (5).
      (A)   Type NM. Type NM cable shall be permitted as follows:
         (1)   For concealed work in normally dry locations except as
prohibited in 334.10.
         (2)   To be installed or fished in air voids in masonry block or tile
walls.
      (B)   Type NMC. Type NMC cable shall be permitted as follows:
         (1)   For concealed work in dry, moist, damp, or corrosive locations.
      4.   334.12 Uses Not Permitted:
      (A)   Types NM, NMC, and NMS. Types NM, NMC, and NMS cables shall not be
permitted as follows:
         (1)   In any dwelling or structure not specifically permitted in
334.10 (1).
         Delete: (2) through (10).
      5.   334.15 Exposed Work:
      Delete: (A)
      Delete: (C). Insert: Where cable is run at angles with joists in
unfinished basements and crawl spaces, cable shall be protected from physical
damage where necessary by rigid metal conduit, intermediate metal conduit,
electrical metallic tubing, Schedule 80 PVC conduit, Type RTRC marked with the
suffix -XW, or other approved means. Conduit or tubing shall be provided with a
suitable insulating bushing or adapter at the point the cable enters the
raceway. The sheath of the nonmetallic-sheathed cable shall extend through the
conduit or tubing and into the outlet or device box not less than 6 mm (1/
4 in.). The cable shall be secured within 300 mm (12 in.) of the point where
the cable enters the conduit or tubing. Metal conduit, tubing, and metal outlet
boxes shall be connected to an equipment grounding conductor complying with the
provisions of 250.86 and 250.148.
      6.   Annex H Administration and Enforcement - Section 80.13 Authority:
      Insert at end: "The authority having jurisdiction is authorized to
approve minor building alterations, improvements, or changes after making a
determination that such alterations, improvements, or changes do not affect the
safety or structural integrity of a building or structure or negate the intent
of these regulations."
      7.   Annex H Administration and Enforcement - Section 80.15 Electrical
Board:
      (A)   Creation of the electrical board. Insert: ...City of Woodstock,
Illinois, ...
      (B)   Appointments: Delete subsections 3 and 4.
      (C)   Terms and (D) Compensation: Delete in their entirety.
(Ord. 16-O-20, 4-5-2016; amd. Ord. 23-O-05, 1-17-2023, eff. 5-1-2023)
7.2.2: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
installing electric conductors to be used for light, heat or power, or to
engage in the business as an electrical contractor before complying with the
rules and regulations herein set forth; provided, however, that if such person
is registered in another city or village located within the state, with a
legally appointed electrical commission, then such electrical contractor shall
be required to register, only for the period covered by his certificate, to the
city. (Ord. 2407, 4-6-1993)
7.2.3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No person shall install or alter any electrical equipment, including
gasoline dispensers in the city without first obtaining a permit. Any person
desiring to install or alter any electrical equipment shall apply to the
building inspector for the necessary permit. In industry, the permits and
inspection only apply where structural changes or additions are made and not to
alterations of outlets and fixtures in existing plant. The building inspector
shall issue permits for installations or alterations of electrical equipment in
all cases where the application shall have been made in accordance with the
rules and regulations established as above provided. The building inspector
shall inspect all such electrical equipment installed or altered in the city,
and shall require that it conform to standards and specifications as set forth
by the city, the national board of fire underwriters and national electrical
code (2008 edition) and as recommended by the National Fire Protection
Association and the rules and regulations of the American engineering standards
committee. Copies of such code shall be kept on file in the office of community
development for public inspection. (Ord. 2407, 4-6-1993; amd. Ord. 2609, 2-6-
1996; Ord. 99-O-17, 3-16-1999, eff. 5-1-1999; Ord. 03-O-37, 5-6-2003, eff.
retroactive to 5-1-2003; Ord. 09-O-24, 4-21-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
   B.   The general contractor on a job or the owner, if he is acting as a
general contractor, shall be responsible for securing of all electrical permits
required by this chapter. (Ord. 2407, 4-6-1993; amd. Ord. 03-O-37, 5-6-2003,
eff. retroactive to 5-1-2003)
7.2.4: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Tests: The building inspector shall also be the electrical inspector
and shall have the right during reasonable hours to enter any building in the
discharge of his official duties, or for the purpose of making any inspection
or test of the installation or alteration of electrical equipment contained
therein, shall have the authority to cause the turning off of all electrical
current and to cut or disconnect in cases of emergency any electrical current
where such electrical current is dangerous to life or property or may interfere
with the work of the fire department.
   B.   Certificates Of Inspection: Upon the completion of the installation or
alteration of any electrical equipment, the person installing or altering same
shall notify the building inspector, who shall inspect the work within twenty
four (24) hours after such notice is given. If the electrical equipment is
found in compliance with this chapter and does not constitute a hazard to life
and property, he shall issue to the person or company furnishing current a
certificate of inspection, or verbal acknowledgment, authorizing connection to
the electrical service and the turning on of current. All wires which are
hidden from view shall be inspected before concealment.
   C.   Code Conformance: No certificate of inspection shall be issued unless
the electrical equipment is in strict conformity with the provisions of this
chapter. Compliance with the regulations of the national electrical code,
unless in conflict with this chapter, shall be prima facie evidence of proper
installation or alteration.
   D.   Public Safety: The provisions for inspection of work authorized by the
permits issued in accordance with this chapter shall not be construed as
prohibiting the inspection of any electrical equipment whenever the building
inspector shall determine that the public safety requires it. No inspection fee
shall be charged for such extra or additional inspection, but in case it
becomes necessary to replace such electrical equipment on account of defects
disclosed by such inspection, a permit shall be obtained in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2407, 4-6-1993)
7.2.5: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 09-O-24, 4-21-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
7.2.6: MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT:
The building inspector shall be inspector of all electrical equipment owned,
controlled or operated by the city. (Ord. 2407, 4-6-1993)
7.2.7: TEMPORARY SERVICE FOR CONSTRUCTION:
No temporary service for construction uses shall exist in any location for more
than a period of one year. Such service must be installed by a registered
electrical contractor and be inspected by the building inspector. (Ord. 2407,
4-6-1993)
7.2.8: RECORDS:
The building inspector shall keep complete records of all permits and
inspections made and other official work performed under the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2407, 4-6-1993)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
7.3.1: Inspector Of Plumbing
7.3.2: Plumbing Work
7.3.3: Permit Requirements
7.3.4: Inspections
7.3.5: Adoption Of Regulations
7.3.6: Construction Regulations
7.3.7: Cross Connection Control
7.3.1: INSPECTOR OF PLUMBING:
   A.   Office Created: The office of inspector of plumbing for the city is
hereby created. The inspector of plumbing shall be appointed by and may be
removed by the city manager and shall work under the immediate supervision of
the deputy city manager for community and economic development. The salary
shall be determined from time to time by the city council. The inspector of
plumbing must be a licensed plumber within the state of Illinois. Wherever city
plumbing inspector appears in this code, it shall mean the inspector of
plumbing. In the event the inspector of plumbing is not a cross connection
control device inspector (CCCDI) certified by the IEPA, the city shall arrange
for such required inspections and tests to be conducted by a CCCDI (the
inspector of plumbing's "authorized representative") whether or not the term
authorized representative is specified in this code.
   B.   Duties: The inspector of plumbing shall:
      1.   Examine and approve plans and specifications for plumbing work.
      2.   Issue permits for such work upon the fulfillment by the applicant of
the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Inspect plumbing.
      4.   Conduct tests thereon.
      5.   Issue certificates of approval.
      6.   Keep records of action taken, and examinations, inspections and
tests made and permits and certificates issued.
      7.   Make a semiannual report to the city council.
      8.   Advise the public when requested in the matter of plumbing
regulations.
      9.   Make recommendations and provide inspections, notification and
follow up regarding backflow prevention devices as required under this chapter.
(Ord. 10-O-51, 11-16-2010)
7.3.2: PLUMBING WORK:
   A.   Owner Installation: An owner may personally install plumbing in his own
building without a plumber's license. All plumbing installed by the owner shall
comply with the requirements of this chapter, and in such event the word
"owner" shall be substituted for the word "plumber" throughout this chapter.
   B.   Workmanship: Workmanship shall be of such character as fully to secure
the results sought, and to promote health and safety from disease. (Ord. 10-O-
51, 11-16-2010)
7.3.3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General:
      1.   No plumbing work, including a connection to the public sewer or
water pipes, or the construction of a private sewer shall be done without a
permit to do so from the inspector of plumbing.
      2.   Before issuing such a permit, an application shall be filed with the
deputy city manager for community and economic development. All applications
shall be in writing on forms provided by the city. The application shall be
signed by the owner of the premises on which work is to be done, or by his
agent. Each application shall be accompanied by a complete and legible set of
plans and specifications for the work to be done, and in lieu thereof such
written description or information as shall be acceptable to the inspector of
plumbing.
      3.   Each application shall be accompanied by a fee established by the
city council. Only city employees shall make taps to sewers over fifteen inches
(15") in diameter. Any person or contractor shall be required to evidence a
certificate of insurance protecting the city from any liability in connection
with any work to be performed on city property. Any person or contractor
opening any street or public way shall pay a fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00) and a deposit in the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      4.   If upon such application it appears that the applicant has conformed
to all the necessary requirements and that the premises and plumbing fixtures
and appliances therein contained are entitled to be connected to the public
sewer or water pipes, the required permit shall be issued to the applicant. No
applicant owing money to the city for fees required by this chapter, either for
work described in any application or for any previous work performed or
inspections made, shall be granted a permit for further work.
   B.   Changes In Plans: Any changes or modifications in the proposed plumbing
work shall be considered as new work and no changes or modifications shall be
installed without an additional permit.
   C.   Expiration Of Permit: If the plumbing work is not commenced under any
permit within six (6) months after the issuance of the permit, and if the work
is not thereafter satisfactorily completed, such permit shall be considered as
having expired. (Ord. 10-O-51, 11-16-2010)
7.3.4: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Right To Enter Premises: Any person charged with the enforcement of
this chapter, or any law in force in the city applicable to the same subject
matter, shall have the right to enter upon any building site, premises,
property or grounds, or into any building under construction, repair or
alteration or removal, or into any building alleged to be unsanitary or a
menace to the health, at all reasonable hours upon showing his badge or other
credentials of office, and no person shall interfere with him in the
performance of such duties.
   B.   Notice Of Inspection: When the plumbing is roughed in and ready for
inspection, the plumber doing the work, or his agent, shall request that said
work be inspected by the inspector of plumbing. No plumbing work shall be
enclosed until the inspector of plumbing has made the required inspection and
has passed such work as being in conformity with this chapter. The inspector of
plumbing shall make his inspection within twenty four (24) business hours after
receiving notice that the work is ready for inspection. (Ord. 10-O-51, 11-16-
2010)
7.3.5: ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations of the 2004 edition of the Illinois state plumbing code,
published by the Illinois department of public health, are hereby adopted by
reference as though fully set forth herein, as the regulations governing the
installation and maintenance of any plumbing, drains or sewers, in any premises
within the city with the following exceptions and amendments:
Section 890.520, first paragraph, last sentence is amended to read "Residential
garages with floor drains shall have a gas and oil interceptor."
Section 890.920(a), second sentence, is amended to read "Vertical piping and
stacks shall be supported at not less than every story height and at its base."
Section 890, appendix A, table A, Approved Materials For Water Distribution
Pipe, is amended by deleting reference to items 2, 5, 7 and 9, and by adding
the following: "Copper, when used under floors or ground, shall be type K."
Section 890, appendix A, table A, Approved Materials For Water Service Pipe, is
amended by deleting reference to items 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 13, and
by adding the following: "Copper pipe shall be type K."
Section 890, appendix A, table A, Approved Materials For Building Sewer, is
amended by adding the following: "Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe, schedule 40
minimum, or equivalent is required. Cleanouts shall be provided at the first
connection beyond the exterior of the building."
Section 890.1200(a), second sentence, is amended to read "In no case shall a
water service line be less than one inch in diameter."
Section 890.1200(a), fourth sentence, is amended to read "At the time of making
a tap for a new service to replace an existing service, the existing service
shall be shut off or capped at the corporation stop."
Section 890.1310(b), is amended by adding the following: "Corrosive waste,
including that generated by appliances, which is directed into the sanitary
sewer system shall be neutralized prior to entering said system."
It shall be unlawful to install any plumbing, sewers or drains in the city in
violation of, or without complying with, these regulations. Copies of the
Illinois state plumbing code shall be kept on file in community and economic
development department for public inspection. (Ord. 10-O-51, 11-16-2010)
7.3.6: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Curb Boxes: Curb boxes used for the main shutoff on a water service for
a dwelling shall be of the screwed type design exclusively. Saddle and tee curb
boxes are prohibited.
   B.   Bathroom Ventilation: Every bathroom or washroom where toilet
facilities are provided shall have at least one window leading directly to the
outside, or power driven ventilating fan.
   C.   Public Establishments: Restaurants, theaters and liquor establishments
shall have separate washrooms and toilet facilities for men and women.
   D.   Separate Drainage For Buildings: Every building shall be separately and
independently connected with a public sewer if there is a public sewer in the
street abutting the lot occupied by such building.
The plumbing and drainage system of every building shall be entirely separate
and independent from that of any other building, except where there are two (2)
buildings on the lot, one in the rear of the other. If there is no sewer at the
rear of the lot or in an alley to which the rear building can be connected, the
sewer at the front building may be extended to serve the rear building.
   E.   Privy Vaults: No person shall maintain any privy vault on any premises
which abuts on a public street or portion thereof which is served by a public
sanitary sewer in the city. No outdoor toilet shall be constructed or
maintained in the city.
   F.   Garage Drainage: Floor drains in garages shall be connected with the
storm sewer system; such drains shall have intercepting mud or grease traps
adequate to prevent the flow of mud or grease into the sewer system.
   G.   Stormwater Drains:
      1.   No person shall construct or permit the maintenance of any
stormwater drain which discharges water onto any sidewalk in the city, or which
discharges into any street or alley at a height greater than eighteen inches
(18") from the ground or pavement.
      2.   In all new construction, foundation or footing drains shall be
placed on the inside, or outside, of all foundation footings. Said tile shall
be four inch (4") clay, or concrete open joint tile, spaced one-fourth inch (1/
4") to one-half inch (1/2") apart and covered with fifteen (15) pound felt.
Said tile shall slope toward an eighteen inch (18") diameter or larger
vitrified or glazed sump tile. Slope shall be approximately one inch (1") in
twenty feet (20'). If groundwater collects in the sump tile and a sump pump is
required, a sump pump with a minimum capacity of five (5) gallons per minute
shall discharge into a storm sewer if available; if not available, the pump
shall discharge to the surface at a point six inches (6") above grade.
   H.   Overhead Sewer Services: An overhead sanitary sewer service shall be
required to be constructed in the lowest level of all new structures, and shall
be required with the construction of building additions that include any
plumbing fixtures, where the finished floor of the lowest level is below the
elevation of the crown of the street adjacent to the structure.
      1.   Plumbing fixtures to be served by an overhead sewer shall drain into
an ejector pit with pump and tight seal lid which meets the requirements of the
inspector of plumbing. The ejector pit shall be properly sealed, vented, and
located to receive sewage by gravity flow from which the wastewater is lifted
and discharged into the building sewer service. The discharge size of the pump
shall be a minimum of two inches (2") and the discharge line shall be equipped
with a backwater check valve.
      2.   The connection from the ejector pit to the building sanitary sewer
service shall be made inside of the building, and no part of the discharge from
the ejector pit shall extend beyond the foundation.
      3.   All plumbing fixtures not located in the lowest level of the
building shall drain entirely by gravity and shall not be drained through the
ejector pit. (Ord. 10-O-51, 11-16-2010)
7.3.7: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Approved Backflow Prevention Device: All plumbing installed within
the city shall be installed in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, 77
Illinois administrative code 890. If, in accordance with the Illinois plumbing
code or in the judgment of the inspector of plumbing, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water supply
system, the inspector of plumbing shall notify the water customer to install
such an approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at his own
expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection
agency (IEPA) and all applicable local regulations and shall have the same
inspected by the CCCDI certified inspector of plumbing or authorized
representative. The inspector of plumbing shall be responsible for all
inspections and tests, which must be made as required by the Illinois plumbing
code, IEPA and city regulations.
      2.   Restrictions On Connections: No person shall establish or permit to
be established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the city may enter the supply or distribution system of the
city.
      3.   Surveys And Records: It shall be the duty of the inspector of
plumbing to cause surveys and investigations to be made of industrial and other
properties served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or
potential hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and
investigations shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at
least every two (2) years, or as often as the inspector of plumbing shall deem
necessary. Records of such surveys shall be maintained and available for review
for a period of at least five (5) years.
      4.   Right Of Entry; Request Information: The approved CCCDI shall have
the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection
to the public water supply or distribution system for the purpose of verifying
the presence or absence of cross connections. The inspector of plumbing or
authorized representative shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer
regarding the required cross connection control inspection. When requested, in
writing, the owner, lessees or occupants of property so served shall furnish to
the inspector of plumbing any information requested regarding the piping system
or systems or water use on such property. Refusal to provide such information,
shall, within the discretion of the inspector of plumbing, be deemed evidence
of the presence of improper connections as provided in this chapter.
      5.   Discontinue Water Service; Reconnection Fee: The director of public
works is authorized and may discontinue, after three (3) days' prior notice to
the occupant thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connection
in violation of the provisions of this section is known to exist as determined
by the inspector of plumbing, and to take such other precautionary measures as
he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public
water supply distribution mains. Water service shall not be restored until such
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, and until a reconnection fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
is paid to the city. Immediate disconnection can be effected when the director
of public works and/or the inspector of plumbing is assured that imminent
danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such
action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent
actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply,
provided that, in the opinion of the director of public works, inspector of
plumbing or the IEPA, such action is required to prevent actual or potential
contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the city or its
agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for injury, damages or lost
revenues resulting from termination of said customer's water supply in
accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination was
with or without notice.
      6.   Cost Of Cleanup: The property owner and the customer responsible for
backsiphoned or backpressured material or contamination through backflow, if
contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an illegal
cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired device, or
a device which has been bypassed, is responsible for the cost of cleanup of the
potable water supply system.
      7.   Purpose: The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
         a.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
         b.   To promote the elimination or control of existing or potential
cross connections, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety.
         c.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
      8.   Application: These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the city.
      9.   Policy: The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or back siphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the director of public works and/or
inspector of plumbing, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for
the safety of the public water supply system, the inspector of plumbing shall
notify the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention device at each
service connection to the premises. The consumer shall immediately install such
approved device or devices at his own expense; which shall be inspected by the
inspector of plumbing or the authorized representative. Failure, refusal or
inability on the part of the consumer to install such device or devices
immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the
premises until such device or devices have been installed. The consumer shall
submit records of all maintenance and repair to the city and shall retain such
records for a period of at least five (5) years. The inspector of plumbing may
require the consumer to submit a cross connection inspection report to the city
to assist in determining whether or not service line protection will be
required. All cross connection inspections shall be conducted by a CCCDI
certified by the IEPA.
   B.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of these regulations:
   AGENCY: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
   APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation For Cross-Connection Control of the University Of Southern
California, American Water Works Association, American National Standards
Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention must meet the standards of the Illinois plumbing code and
the IEPA.
   CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water
system.
   CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
Direct Cross Connection: A cross connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
Indirect Cross Connection: A cross connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of customers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois plumbing
code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
   NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative code 604.
   PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including, without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, within and
about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work or
assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, from discharge of pumping units to and
including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a building drain and a sanitary
drainage and related ventilation system of any building or buildings where a
person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection of such
building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system five
feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois
administrative code 604 for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenances with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollution or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      1.   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      2.   Processed waters;
      3.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      4.   Cooling waters;
      5.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams or irrigation systems;
      6.   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
      7.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used
in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage tanks and
appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended for use for
the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic use and which
serve at least fifteen (15) service connections or which regularly serve at
least twenty five (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per year. A public
water supply is either a "community water supply" or a "noncommunity water
supply".
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross connection control devices and methods located within
that customer's piping system. The survey must be in written form and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
   USED WATER: Any water supplied by a potable water supply system to a
consumer's water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
   C.   Water System:
      1.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts:
the public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
      2.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source
facilities and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities
of the potable water system under the control of the city to the point where
the consumer's water system begins.
      3.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
      4.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the
network of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's
water system.
      5.   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the
facilities beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public
water supply distribution system to points of use.
   D.   Cross Connection Prohibited:
      1.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
      2.   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the agency.
      3.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
   E.   Survey And Investigations:
      1.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
inspector of plumbing or the authorized representative for the inspection of
the presence or absence of cross connections within the consumer's premises,
and testing, repair and maintenance of cross connection control devices within
the consumer's premises.
      2.   On request by the inspector of plumbing or the authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water user within the customer's premises. The consumer's
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the inspector of plumbing or
the authorized representative for the verification of information submitted by
the consumer to the public water supply custodian regarding cross connection
inspection results.
      3.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross connections to his water system through
which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable
water system. All cross connection control or other plumbing inspections must
be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/3 et seq.
      4.   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
         a.   All cross connections are removed; or approved cross connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back siphonage.
         b.   Cross connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
         c.   Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at the time
of installation by the inspector of plumbing or authorized representative. The
inspection of mechanical devices shall include physical testing in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
   F.   Testing And Records:
      1.   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation by the
inspector of plumbing or authorized representative and at least annually or
more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
      2.   City inspection records shall be available for inspection by agency
personnel.
      3.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of the CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
      4.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
         a.   Date of each test;
         b.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
         c.   Test results;
         d.   Repairs or servicing required;
         e.   Repairs and date completed; and
         f.   Servicing performed and date completed.
   G.   Where Protection Is Required:
      1.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 680. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving premises,
where in the judgment of the director of public works and/or inspector of
plumbing, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply system exist.
      2.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
         a.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the director of public works and
the source is approved by the IEPA.
         b.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the city.
         c.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment
of the inspector of plumbing, are not correctable or intricate plumbing
arrangements which make it impractical to determine whether or not cross
connection exists.
         d.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
         e.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
      3.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a customer's water system serving, but not
necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities unless the inspector
of plumbing determines that no actual or potential hazard to the public water
supply system exists:
         a.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
         b.   Laboratories;
         c.   Piers, docks and waterfront facilities;
         d.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater
pumping stations;
         e.   Food or beverage processing plants;
         f.   Chemical plants;
         g.   Metal plating industries;
         h.   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
         i.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
         j.   Car washes;
         k.   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
         l.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
   H.   Type Of Protection Required:
      1.   The type of protection required under subsections G2a, G2b and G3c
of this section shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
         a.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
         b.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that
could cause a system or health hazard.
         c.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
      2.   The type of protection required under subsections G2d and G2e of
this section shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly.
      3.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for
a fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall
be installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
         a.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or
other chemicals;
         b.   Water is pumped into the system from another source; or
         c.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source;
         d.   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced
into the fire safety system.
      4.   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
   I.   Backflow Prevention Devices:
      1.   Approved Or Certified: All backflow prevention devices or methods
required by these rules and regulations shall be approved by the Research
Foundation For Cross-Connection Control of the University Of Southern
California, American Water Works Association or American National Standards
Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specifications.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: Installation of approved devices shall
be made in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as
recommended by the manufacturer of the device shall be required and performed.
Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be available on site.
      3.   Inspection And Maintenance:
         a.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at the premises on which
backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions.
            (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected by the
inspector of plumbing or the authorized representative to document that proper
vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the service line
and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of installation and at
least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or bypassed air gaps shall
be made within twenty four (24) hours.
            (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested
at time of installation and at least annually thereafter by the inspector of
plumbing or the authorized representative, and required service performed
within five (5) days.
            (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies
shall be tested by the inspector of plumbing or the authorized representative
at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five (5)
days.
         b.   Testing shall be performed by the inspector of plumbing or the
authorized representative. Proof of approval shall be in writing.
         c.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of the
most recent test or visual inspection, name of tester and type and date of
repairs.
         d.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
            (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or
visual inspection;
            (3)   Test results;
            (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
            (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
            (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
         e.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these
regulations are found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at
the expense of the consumer without delay as required by subsection I3a of this
section.
         f.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made
inoperative, removed or otherwise made ineffective without prior specific
written authorization by the inspector of plumbing.
   J.   Booster Pumps:
      1.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line of the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the inspector
of plumbing, at least once per year, that the device is operable.
   K.   Violations:
      1.   The director of public works shall deny or discontinue, after notice
to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not installed,
tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the inspector of
plumbing, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been
removed or bypassed, or if any unprotected cross connection exists on the
premises, or if a low pressure cutoff required by these regulations is not
installed and maintained in working order.
      2.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the inspector of plumbing,
and the required reconnection fee is paid.
      3.   Neither the city, the director of public works, the inspector of
plumbing, nor their agents or assigns shall be liable to any customers for any
injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of said
customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether
or not said termination of the water supply was with or without notice.
      4.   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, shall be responsible for
the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system.
      5.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be served
with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing a
specific time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violation.
      6.   In addition to the fine provided, any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation, whether the
same was caused before or after notice.
   L.   Fees: The actual cost to complete and provide the surveys and
investigations, inspect cross connection control devices, prepare and maintain
required reports and documentation and all related work necessary for the
enforcement and implementation of these regulations by the inspector of
plumbing and his designee(s) shall be paid to the city by the utility customer
or the property owner as a fee for services rendered. (Ord. 10-O-51, 11-16-
2010)
CHAPTER 4
LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7.4.1: Adoption Of Unified Development Regulations
7.4.2: Adoption Of Stormwater Management Regulations
7.4.1: ADOPTION OF UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
The unified development ordinance of the city of Woodstock adopted by ordinance
06-0-93 on December 5, 2006, and as amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted by reference as part of this code. (Ord. 09-0-24, 4-21-2009, eff. 5-1-
2009)
7.4.2: ADOPTION OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS:
The McHenry County stormwater management ordinance adopted by the city of
Woodstock on September 22, 2004, and as amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted by reference as part of this code. (Ord. 09-0-24, 4-21-2009, eff. 5-1-
2009)
CHAPTER 5
SWIMMING POOLS
(Rep. by Ord. 99-0-17, 3-16-1999, eff. 5-1-1999)
CHAPTER 6
EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
SECTION:
7.6.1: Definitions
7.6.2: Interpretation And Compliance
7.6.3: Permit Required; Exceptions
7.6.4: Application Procedures
7.6.5: Bond And Fee Requirements
7.6.6: Standards
7.6.7: Operation Restrictions
7.6.8: Completion Of Work
7.6.9: Prohibited Activities
7.6.1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
provided in this section:
   EXCAVATION: Includes removal, stripping or disturbance of soil, earth, sand,
rock, gravel or other similar substance from the ground.
   FILLING: Includes the placing of any soil, earth, sand, rock, gravel or
other similar substance on the ground.
   GRADING: Includes any operation involving either excavation and/or filling.
   GROUND: Includes, but is not limited to, land below mean high water line,
natural watercourse, and the banks and beds of any river, stream or lake. (Ord.
04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
7.6.2: INTERPRETATION AND COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Compliance Required: No excavation, grading or filling shall be
commenced in the city, except as hereinafter provided, and then only in full
compliance with the requirements, standards and conditions contained herein.
   B.   Interpretation Of Provisions: The provisions of this chapter shall not
be construed as permitting the applicant to carry on any commercial operation
or business, or use any premises or buildings or structures thereon for any
purpose not permitted by other provisions of this chapter or the zoning
ordinances. For the purpose of this subsection, an excavation shall not be
considered a commercial operation or business if the excavation is incidental
to and necessary for the establishment or operation of a use permitted in the
applicable zoning district.
   C.   Applicability: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
excavations, grading or filling operations which are being worked at the time
this chapter goes into effect as provided in section 7.6.3 of this chapter. No
existing operation shall be extended in area or any new operation commenced
after such date without first securing a permit therefor as hereinafter
provided, and such operation shall be subject to all of the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
7.6.3: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, a permit shall be
required for every "excavation", "grading" or "filling" as defined herein.
   B.   No permit shall be required for the following classes of excavation,
grading or filling operations:
      1.   Building Permit: Under provisions of a duly issued building permit.
      2.   Incidental Excavations, Grading Or Filling: Excavations and removal
of excavated material, and filling, shall be permitted in any zone, provided
such operation is clearly incidental to the improvement of the property,
consists of less than two hundred (200) cubic yards of material and the area is
graded and covered by revegetation or other suitable means.
      3.   Excavation For Streets And Drains: Necessary grading, removal or
excavation of topsoil, or other materials shall be permitted within the limits
of the right of way or slope rights of any existing street or for the purpose
of constructing streets and other related improvements within the area of new
subdivisions when made in accordance with subdivision plans approved by the
planning and zoning commission, which subdivision plans shall establish the
elevations and grades of said streets and/or the location of said improvements,
and for which a street construction permit or a drain connection permit has
been issued.
      4.   Other Construction Work: Construction work relating to drains,
utilities or sanitary sewerage systems for which a street opening and/or other
necessary permit has been issued by the city council.
      5.   Farming: The provisions of this section shall not be construed as
prohibiting or limiting the lawful use of land for farming, nurseries or
gardening, or similar agricultural or horticultural use in any zoning district
where and as permitted by the zoning ordinances. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
7.6.4: APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
Application for such permit shall be made by the property owner or his
authorized agent, and shall be made to the director of public works as
enforcement officer, on forms provided by the city. An application form in
duplicate shall be accompanied by a detailed statement of proposed work and the
purpose thereof and why the excavation, grading and/or filling is clearly
incidental to the improvement of the property. An application shall be
accompanied by the following:
   A.   Two (2) sets of maps and plans with specifications showing proposed
excavation, grading or filling. Such plans shall be prepared by and shall bear
the seal of a licensed engineer, except, when engineering design for excavation
or construction is unnecessary to assure compliance with the standards
established by this regulation, in which event, such plans may be prepared by a
licensed surveyor. All such plans shall be drawn to a scale of not less than
one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall show the following:
      1.   Full name and address of the owner of the property.
      2.   Description of property by street address and tax assessor
designation.
      3.   The location of the premises and its geographic relation to
neighboring properties, showing all buildings and roads within one hundred feet
(100') of the boundaries of the plot on which the excavation, grading or
filling is proposed.
      4.   The portion of the property that is to be excavated, graded or
filled with excavated material.
      5.   The estimated maximum quantity of material to be excavated, graded
or filled, and the estimated part thereof that will be used for grading or
filling.
      6.   When available, the location and depth of any well situated within
fifty feet (50') of the proposed excavation and/or filling.
      7.   When available, the location of any sewerage disposal system or
underground utility line, any part of which is within fifty feet (50') of the
proposed excavation, grading or filling area and the location of any gas
transmission pipeline operated at a maximum service pressure in excess of two
hundred (200) psig, any part of which is within one hundred feet (100') of the
proposed excavation, grading or filling area.
      8.   Existing topography of the premises at a contour interval of not
more than two feet (2') and the proposed final contours of existing and final
elevations at intervals of not more than fifty feet (50').
      9.   The location and present status of any previously permitted
excavation operations on the property.
      10.   The details of any drainage system proposed to be installed and
maintained by the applicant, designed to provide for proper surface drainage of
the land, both during the performance of the work applied for and after the
completion thereof.
      11.   If the proposed excavation and/or filling is for the purpose of
constructing a lake or pond, the details of the proposed dam or other
structures and the embankments intended to impound the water, together with the
details and location of proposed discharge through a valved outlet for drainage
purposes, and the proposed level of any impounded water. Any proposal involving
the construction of a dam for the impoundment of water must be approved by the
state water board, if and where necessary, and such approval shall be obtained
prior to the issuance of a permit hereunder.
      12.   Details of soil preparation and of revegetation or of other methods
of soil erosion control.
      13.   Proposed truck and equipment accessways to the work site.
      14.   A statement from the property owner or his agent assuming full
responsibility for the performance of the operation as stated in the
application. This statement shall also contain an assurance that all city
property and/or city roads will be protected adequately.
   B.   Upon receipt of the application and plan, the director of public works
shall establish the amount of the performance bond, if any, and if said
application and plan comply with the standards contained in this chapter, the
director shall issue a permit in accordance therewith. In acting on such an
application, the director shall be guided by and shall take into consideration
the public health, safety and general welfare and particular consideration
shall be given as to whether the plan will create any of the following
conditions:
      1.   Interfere with surface water flow and drainage.
      2.   Interfere with lateral supports and slopes.
      3.   Cause erosion, alteration of the natural topography and grade of
land, depletion of natural deposits of topsoil and other natural materials,
disturbance of the plant and wildlife, creation of nuisances and dangerous open
pits, creation of stagnant water pools.
      4.   Interfere with mean high water on riparian properties.
The director of public works may impose such conditions or requirements upon
the issuance of a permit as he deems necessary or proper to assure faithful
compliance with this chapter.
   C.   A covenant in duplicate, executed by the record owner of the real
estate which shall be in substantially the following form:
Form:
   Covenant
To the City of Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois:
The undersigned has herewith applied for a permit to excavate, fill or grade
the following described premises:
(Legal Description)
In consideration of the issuance of a permit to excavate or fill the above
described premises, the undersigned hereby declares for himself, his heirs,
executors, administrators and assigns that the above described premises will
constitute made lands after the completion of the filling or excavating
requested in the permit application which contain or may contain subsurface
soil conditions limiting the utility of said real estate for the construction
of any improvement.
The undersigned therefore agrees for himself, his heirs, his or its
administrators, or assigns, that no owner shall be entitled to any building
permit in the City of Woodstock, Illinois, for the construction of the
improvements on the above described real estate unless and until plans and
specifications have been submitted to and approved by the Director of Public
Works of the City for such improvements designed to overcome any or all of the
known limitations to which the subsoil may be subject on the above described
real estate.
This covenant shall run with the land and is binding upon the owner, his heirs,
executors, administrators, assigns and successors in interest. Compliance may
be enforced by injunction obtained by the City of Woodstock or any interested
person or by a suit for damages by any interested person against any owner
violating or permitting the violation of the same.
(Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
7.6.5: BOND AND FEE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bond: For excavations, grading or filling of more than three thousand
(3,000) cubic yards of material, a performance bond in form and with surety
approved by the city council in such amount said council shall deem sufficient
to ensure completion of all work following excavation, grading or filling
pursuant to the conditions of approval, provided the director of public works
may accept and hold a certified or bank officer's check payable to the city in
the same amount in lieu of such bond.
   B.   Fee: A fee to cover the cost of permit and inspections based on a rate
of five dollars ($5.00) per one thousand (1,000) cubic yards of material or
fraction thereof to be excavated, graded or filled, with a minimum fee of
fifteen dollars ($15.00) and maximum fee of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00).
   C.   Term Of Permit: A permit issued under this chapter shall expire one
year from the date of issuance, except that the city council may, for due cause
shown, extend any permit for one year periods after complete review of all
plans and examination of work accomplished and proposed, provided application
is made at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of such permit.
In no case shall a permit be extended if the provisions of this regulation have
not been complied with; provided, however, that in connection with continuing
operations, the city council may waive, for one year periods, those
requirements which would make continuing operations impractical. (Ord. 04-0-16,
2-3-2004)
7.6.6: STANDARDS:
Approval of plans and specifications for excavations shall be based upon the
following standards:
   A.   In residence districts no excavation, grading or filling shall be
permitted within twenty feet (20') of an existing or approved street property
line except to conform to approximate street grade.
   B.   In residence districts finished slopes of an excavation shall not
exceed one to one and one-half (1:11/2) (vertical to horizontal) in undisturbed
earth, one to two (1:2) in earth fill, and four to one (4:1) in rock cut,
whether or not the ground surface will be below water.
   C.   In business districts the same standards shall apply, except that
vertical slopes shall be permitted if adequate retaining walls and protective
fences are provided when needed.
   D.   Truck and equipment accessways to the site of the operation shall be
located so as to minimize danger to traffic and nuisance to surrounding
properties. Such access shall be kept either wet or oiled or treated with
chemical dust deterrents, or paved, to the extent necessary to prevent any dust
nuisance to surrounding properties. All such accessways shall be clearly marked
with signs and shall be posted approximately two hundred feet (200') distant
from such accessways or other traveled areas. Such signs shall read, "Caution,
Trucks Entering", and be of size, type, coloring, lettering and format used by
the highway department of the city or state.
   E.   Excavations shall not interfere with public or private utility systems
and shall not create or aggravate any condition detrimental to the public
health and safety. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
7.6.7: OPERATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Processing of any kind on the excavation site or the erection or use of
any structure thereon, such as, but not limited to, hoppers, washers, crushers
or sheds, except simple screens to remove oversized aggregates during loading,
shall be deemed a commercial use and are hereby prohibited.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection
7.6.3B of this chapter, no storage area may be created or maintained in
connection with an excavation, grading or filling operation except that, under
a duly issued permit, an owner or his contractor shall be allowed temporarily
to store such material incidental to the operation, but such storage shall not
be for a longer term than the term of the permit issued.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to keep or store any trucks, machinery or
equipment on any property or street after completion of the operation. All such
trucks, machinery or equipment shall be removed from such property within ten
(10) days after completion of the work.
   D.   No operation shall be permitted on Sundays or holidays, nor before
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or after five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on other days.
   E.   Barricades and lights shall be erected where necessary to protect
pedestrians and vehicles during the period of operations. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-
2004)
7.6.8: COMPLETION OF WORK:
Upon completion of the work allowed by permit, the permittee shall comply with
the applicable provisions of the following:
   A.   All pits, quarries, holes or other excavated areas shall be refilled
with, and no new filling operation shall be conducted with any material except
clean, nonburnable fill containing no trash, refuse or harmful matter, and such
excavated areas and new filling operations shall be graded to the level of
adjoining properties, or to an elevation from which all surface and other
waters collected therein may find natural drainage therefrom. Stumps and logs
may be used for fill material but only in accordance with standards and
requirements established by the city council. Excess material shall either be
removed from the premises or leveled and covered with topsoil and seeded as
hereinafter provided.
   B.   If the proposed method of soil erosion control is by revegetation, the
specifications for the work shall provide that any layer of topsoil over the
area to be excavated, graded or filled shall be set aside and retained on the
premises in sufficient quantity to cover all surfaces which will remain
exposed, except rock, to a depth of at least four inches (4"), with topsoil
added if necessary to make up any deficiency. The specifications shall also
provide that at the completion of respreading of topsoil it shall immediately
be harrowed or raked to establish a seedbed and shall be seeded for grass,
permanent pasture mixture, or other approved fast growing vegetation and shall
be repeated as often as necessary until the area is stabilized.
   C.   In the case of extended operations, except for access drives, and the
accrual work area, the completed portion of the excavation, filling or grading
operation shall be subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section
and the operation shall be completed prior to the reissuance of the permit
under subsection
7.6.5C of this chapter.
   D.   Where a permit has been issued for the excavation of a lake or pond,
the provisions of this section applicable to seeding shall not apply to that
part of the excavation below the high water mark of such lake or pond.
   E.   The applicant shall notify the director of public works of the
following, when and as completed: 1) rough grading, 2) final grading before
seeding, and 3) all reestablishment and construction work. Upon such
notification, the director shall make field inspections on the site before
rough grading, after final grading, before seeding and at completion to
determine if work in progress and the completed operation have been performed
in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
7.6.9: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
No excavation, grading or filling shall be permitted which would interfere with
the natural drainage of the general area surrounding the site. All existing
watercourses shall be preserved, except that such watercourses may be relocated
or piped; provided, that there will not thereby be created any interference
with the riparian and drainage rights or easements of other property owners,
and provided further that no drainage shall be made onto public land or
connected with public facilities without the express approval of the city
council, except with respect to land controlled by the board of education, in
which event such approval shall be obtained from the board of education. (Ord.
04-0-16, 2-3-2004)
CHAPTER 7
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7.7.1: Purposes And Intent
7.7.2: Definitions
7.7.3: Designation Of Landmarks
7.7.3.1: Nomination Of Landmarks
7.7.3.2: Criteria For Nomination
7.7.3.3: Application Procedure
7.7.3.4: Designation Process
7.7.3.5: Notice Of Designation
7.7.4: Designation Of Historic Preservation Districts
7.7.4.1: Nomination Of Historic Preservation Districts
7.7.4.2: Criteria For Nomination
7.7.4.3: Application Procedure
7.7.4.4: Designation Process
7.7.4.5: Notice Of Designation
7.7.4.6: Recognition Of Existing Historic Preservation District
7.7.5: Category 2 Major Project
7.7.5.1: Certificate Of Appropriateness
7.7.5.2: Criteria For Granting A Certificate Of Appropriateness
7.7.5.3: Ordinary Maintenance
7.7.5.4: Demolition
7.7.5.5: Application Procedure
7.7.5.6: Hardship
7.7.5.7: Issuance Of Permits
7.7.5.8: Penalties
7.7.5.9: Prevention Of Demolition By Neglect
7.7.6: Category 1 Minor Projects
7.7.1: PURPOSES AND INTENT:
The purposes and intent of this chapter are as follows:
   A.   To identify, designate, protect, preserve, and encourage the
restoration, rehabilitation, and adaption for continued use of those properties
and structures which represent or reflect the prehistoric, historic,
architectural, cultural, artistic, social, economic, ethnic, or political
heritage of the nation, state, county, or city, or which may be representative
of an architectural or engineering type inherently valuable for the study of
style, period, craftsmanship, method of construction or use of indigenous
materials.
   B.   To safeguard the historic, aesthetic, and cultural heritage of the city
as embodied and reflected in such structures, landscape features, and areas
seen in such examples as houses, commercial buildings, public buildings,
factories, cemeteries, barns, bridges, and fences.
   C.   To stabilize and improve the economic vitality and value of designated
landmarks and historic preservation districts in particular and the city in
general.
   D.   To educate the general public, government officials, and commercial and
industrial interests as to the need to foster historic preservation through the
provisions of the preservation ordinance.
   E.   To work with the city community development department and with other
city commissions in the development and application of a historic preservation
program.
   F.   To foster civic pride in the technological accomplishments, beauty, and
nobility of the past.
   G.   To protect and enhance the attraction of the city to tourists and
visitors, and to support the retention of and stimulus to business and
industry.
   H.   To strengthen the economy and enhance the tax base of the city.
   I.   To promote the use of historic preservation districts, landmarks, and
landscapes for the education, pleasure, and welfare of the citizens of the
city.
   J.   To assist property owners in obtaining the financial benefits and
incentives offered by achieving certified local government status from the
state of Illinois historic preservation agency. (Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.2: DEFINITIONS:
   ALTERATION: Any act or process which changes one or more of the exterior
architectural features of a structure, including, but not limited to, the
erection, construction, reconstruction of any "improvement" as defined herein.
   ARCHITECTURAL SIGNIFICANCE: The distinctive characteristics of a type,
period, style, or method of construction or use of indigenous construction, or
representing the work of an important builder, designer, architect, or
craftsman who has contributed to the development of the community, McHenry
County, state of Illinois, or the nation.
   CATEGORY 1 MINOR PROJECT: All projects which do not require a building
permit including, but not limited to, awnings, windows and doors (with no
change in the size of the opening), paint, masonry maintenance (cleaning,
sealing or tuckpointing), dumpster enclosures, gutters, landscape, fencing,
sidewalks, parking, reshingling, removing inappropriate and/or nonoriginal
siding, and replication or restoration of original siding, and simple repairs
affecting a nominated or designated landmark or property within a nominated or
designated historic preservation district. Category 1 minor projects include
storefront and facade renovations that involve the replacement of nonoriginal
or nonsignificant storefront facade materials, if this work does not require a
building permit.
   CATEGORY 2 MAJOR PROJECT: All projects which require a building permit such
as the creation of new openings, enlarging window or doors, new construction,
additions, demolition, storefront or facade alterations, and the replacement of
historic elements affecting a nominated or designated landmark or property
within a nominated or designated historic preservation district. Category 2
major projects include all projects which permanently cover, alter, or destroy
original or significant siding materials or architectural features except for
simple repairs, even if a building permit is not otherwise required.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS: A certificate issued by the department
(category 1) or the commission (category 2) indicating its approval of plans
affecting a nominated or designated landmark or property within a nominated or
designated historic preservation district.
   CERTIFICATE OF HARDSHIP: A certificate issued by the commission allowing the
alteration, construction, demolition, or removal affecting a nominated or
designated landmark or property within a nominated or designated historic
preservation district after a certificate of appropriateness has been denied
and after the owner(s) has (have) provided proof that all reasonable use of, or
return from, the property would be lost.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Woodstock, Illinois.
   COMMISSION: The city of Woodstock historic preservation commission.
   CONSTRUCTION: The act of adding an addition to a structure or the erection
of a new principal and/or accessory structure on a lot or property.
   DEMOLITION: Any act or process which destroys, in part or in whole, any
improvement.
   DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT: Neglect in the maintenance of any landmark and/or
building or structure within a historic preservation district resulting in the
deterioration of that building to the extent that it creates a hazardous or
unsafe condition as determined by the building officer of the city of
Woodstock.
   DEPARTMENT: The city's community development department.
   DIRECTOR: The director of the city's community development department.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES: The architectural character and general
composition of the exterior of a building or structure, including, but not
limited to, the kind and texture of the building exterior, and the type, design
and character of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs and appurtenant
elements.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT: A place or area so designated by ordinance
of the city council, pursuant to the procedures and requirements prescribed
hereunder.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure or building designated as a landmark or
located in a historic preservation district.
   IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, wall, fence, steps, paving, gate,
sign, light fixture, general arrangement of place or area, the kind of texture
or quality of building material, landscaping or landscape architecture, or work
of art which may be erected upon or proposed to be erected upon any specific
real estate.
   LANDMARK: Any improvement designated as a landmark by ordinance of the city
council, pursuant to procedures and requirements prescribed herein.
   LANDMARK SITE: A parcel or part thereof on which is situated a "landmark" as
described herein, and any abutting parcel or part thereof used and constituting
part of the premises on which the landmark is situated.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE: That which does not alter the exterior features of a
historic site or historic resource within a historic preservation district.
Exterior features include the architectural style, design, and general
arrangement of the exterior; the nature, and texture of building materials; and
the type and style of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, and similar
items found on, or related to, the exterior of a historic site or historic
resource within a historic preservation district. Ordinary maintenance is that
which will have no material effect on the historical, architectural, cultural,
or archaeological value of the historic site or resource within a historic
preservation district.
   OWNER OF RECORD: All of the holders of fee simple title, or an estate of
such duration and enjoyment as to be substantially equivalent to fee simple
title, as indicated by documents recorded in the office of the recorder of
deeds of McHenry County, Illinois.
   PRESERVATION RESTRICTION: A right, whether or not stated in the form of a
restriction, easement, covenant or condition, in any deed, will or other
instrument, executed by or on behalf of the owner(s) of the land or in any
order of taking, appropriate to the preservation of areas, places, building or
structures to forbid or limit acts of demolition, alteration, use or other acts
detrimental to the preservation of the buildings, places or areas designated
pursuant to the provisions hereunder as a landmark or as within a historic
preservation district.
   REPLACEMENT OF MATERIALS: The removal of an existing element on a building
and affixes a replica in its place using materials that are compatible with the
historic structure.
   SIMPLE REPAIR: The repair of existing elements which keep the original
fabric and fix the problem using materials compatible with the existing element
and replaces minor part(s). (Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996; amd. Ord. 02-0-12, 2-5-2002;
Ord. 06-0-10, 2-7-2006)
7.7.3: DESIGNATION OF LANDMARKS:
7.7.3.1: NOMINATION OF LANDMARKS:
Any person, group of persons, or association, including the Woodstock historic
preservation commission may submit an application to the commission requesting
that a building, structure, place, or area within the city be designated as a
landmark.
Upon nomination or designation of landmark status, such building, structure,
place, or area shall be afforded the protection of the historic preservation
ordinance. (Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.3.2: CRITERIA FOR NOMINATION:
The commission may recommend to the city council the designation of landmark,
upon written proof of owner notification, after a thorough investigation
results in a determination that a property, structure, or alteration retains
the integrity and spirit of the original design, provided that it is:
   A.   Located within the corporate boundaries of the city; and
   B.   Is at least fifty (50) years old; and
It meets one or more of the following criteria:
   C.   It has character, interest, or value which is part of the development,
heritage, or cultural characteristic(s) of the city, the county, the state, or
the nation;
   D.   Its location is a site of a significant local, county, state, or
national event;
   E.   It is identified with a person or persons who significantly contributed
to the development of the city, county, state, or the nation;
   F.   It embodies distinguishing characteristics of an architectural style
valuable for the study of a period, type, method of construction, or use of
indigenous materials;
   G.   It is identified with the work of a master builder, designer,
architect, or landscape architect whose individual work has influenced the
development of the city, county, state, or the nation;
   H.   It embodies elements of design, detailing, materials, or craftsmanship
that render it architecturally significant;
   I.   It embodies design elements that make it structurally or
architecturally innovative;
   J.   It has a unique location or singular physical characteristics that make
it an established or familiar visual feature;
   K.   It has character which is a particularly fine or unique example of a
utilitarian structure, including, but not limited to, commercial buildings,
factories, industrial buildings or structures, including pump houses or
viaducts, with a high level of integrity or architectural significance;
   L.   It establishes a sense of time and place unique to the City;
   M.   It is suitable for preservation or restoration;
   N.   It is included in the National Register of Historic Places and/or the
Illinois Register of Historic Places;
   O.   It has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important to
pre-history or other areas of archaeological significance;
   P.   It is an exceptional example of a historic or vernacular style or one
of few remaining in the City.
The applicant for landmark designation must demonstrate convincingly the
applicability of one or more of the criteria outlined above, providing ample
documentation to support all statements and assertions. (Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.3.3: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application forms shall be obtained from the Community Development
Department.
   B.   Completed forms shall be submitted to the Community Development
Department which shall forward them to the Commission for their consideration.
Persons wishing guidance or advice prior to completing an application may
contact the staff of the Department. A filing fee may be required.
   C.   The information which must be submitted shall include, but is not
limited to the following:
      1.   The name(s) and mailing addresses of the individuals who last paid
property tax;
      2.   The legal description and common street address of the property
proposed for designation;
      3.   A map drawn to scale delineating the boundaries and location of the
property proposed for designation;
      4.   A written statement describing the property and setting forth
reasons in support of the proposed designation;
      5.   A list and photographs of significant exterior architectural
features;
      6.   A statement indicating whether or not the owner(s) consent(s) to the
landmark designation. (Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.3.4: DESIGNATION PROCESS:
   A.   All reasonable efforts shall be made to secure the written consent of
the owner(s) before proceeding with the designation. The owner(s) of record of
any property for which an application is made (unless the request is made by
the owner) shall be informed within seven (7) working days of receipt of such
application. A landmark can be nominated or designated without the consent of
the owners.
   B.   Upon receipt of the completed application, the Commission shall conduct
a public hearing within forty five (45) days. Notice of the public hearing will
be made to the owner(s) of record by certified mail, and to adjacent property
owners and the person(s) filing the application by regular mail. Notice will
also be placed in a newspaper of general circulation of the date, time, place,
and purpose of the public hearing no less than fifteen (15) but not more than
twenty nine (29) days prior to the hearing. A sign shall be placed on a
property within full view of a public right of way, giving notice of the date,
time, place, and purpose of the public hearing for no less than seven (7) days
prior to the hearing.
   C.   At the public hearing, oral or written testimony pertinent to the
proposed designation shall be taken from any person or organization.
   D.   A decision shall be made within sixty (60) days following the date of
the closing of the public hearing. The evaluation and recommendation of the
Commission, and all pertinent information shall be submitted to the City
Council within thirty (30) days of the Commission's decision. Decisions are
made by a simple majority of Commission members in attendance.
   E.   The owner(s) of record shall be notified promptly in a letter of the
decision of the commission and the date of the City Council meeting at which
the application will be addressed.
   F.   To override a recommendation of the Commission, a favorable vote of
four (4) of all the elected members of the City Council is necessary. (Ord.
2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.3.5: NOTICE OF DESIGNATION:
Within five (5) working days after designation by ordinance of the City
Council, and on a yearly basis thereafter, the Commission shall notify the
owner(s) of the landmark site, and tenant(s) if any, that it has been
designated as such, and that an owner must possess a Certificate of
Appropriateness before he or she can procure a building permit, or otherwise
materially affect the exterior appearance of the property. (Ord. 2604, 1-16-
1996)
7.7.4: DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICTS:
7.7.4.1: NOMINATION OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICTS:
Any person, group of persons, or association, including the Woodstock Historic
Preservation Commission, may submit an application to the commission requesting
that a defined geographic area be designated as an historic preservation
district.
Upon nomination or designation of historic preservation district status, each
building, structure, place, or area shall be afforded the protection of the
Historic Preservation Ordinance. (Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.4.2: CRITERIA FOR NOMINATION:
The Commission may recommend to the City Council the designation of an historic
preservation district, upon written proof of notification of the owner(s), that
the following requirements shall be met:
   A.   In the case of a new district:
      1.   The geographic area which is the subject of the application has
definable boundaries in the form of natural features or existing physical
improvements; and
      2.   A visual sense of history exists within the proposed boundaries; and
      3.   The buildings, places or areas within the proposed district, by
their inclusion therein, are of sufficient historic significance to be worthy
of rehabilitation, restoration, and preservation because either:
         a.   The proposed district contains within definable geographic
boundaries one or more landmarks along with such other buildings, places or
areas, which, while not of such historic significance to be designated as
landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the overall visual characteristics of the
landmark or landmarks located within the district; or
         b.   The proposed district contains within definable geographic
boundaries such buildings, places or areas which, while not of such individual
significance to be designated as landmarks, nevertheless, as an aggregate,
possess historic significance for the City in:
            (1)   Establishing a sense of time and place unique to the City; or
            (2)   Exemplifying or reflecting the cultural, social, economic,
political, or architectural history of the Nation, the State, or the City; or
            (3)   Representing the distinguishing characteristics of an
architectural type which is inherently valuable for studying a period, style,
method of construction, indigenous materials or unique craftsmanship.
   B.   In the case of addition to existing historic preservation districts:
      1.   The historic preservation district, after inclusion of the property
or properties proposed for addition, constitutes one contiguous area without
"holes" or "gaps", defined by natural or existing improved boundaries.
      2.   The proposed addition does not impair the visual sense of history
within the existing historic preservation district.
      3.   Properties within the proposed addition possess historic
significance or characteristics compatible with that found to exist in the
original district at the time it was designated.
   C.   In the case of deletion from existing historic preservation districts:
      1.   The historic preservation district, after removal of the property or
properties proposed for deletion, constitutes one contiguous area without
"holes" or "gaps", defined by natural or existing improved boundaries.
      2.   The historic preservation district, after removal of the property or
properties proposed for deletion, retains the historic significance or historic
characteristics found to exist at the time the district was originally
designated.
      3.   The property or properties proposed for deletion do not materially
contribute to the historic significance or historic characteristics found to
exist at the time the district was originally designated. (Ord. 2604, 1-16-
1996)
7.7.4.3: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application forms shall be obtained from the Community Development
Department.
   B.   Completed forms shall be submitted to the Community Development
Department which shall forward them to the Commission for their consideration.
Persons wishing guidance or advice prior to completing an application may
contact the staff of the Department. A filing fee may be required.
   C.   The information which must be submitted shall include, but is not
limited to the following:
      1.   The names and mailing addresses of all the individuals who last paid
property taxes;
      2.   The legal description of the boundary of the proposed district and
the common street address of each of the properties proposed for designation;
      3.   A map delineating the boundary and location of the area proposed for
designation;
      4.   A written statement describing the district and setting forth
reasons in support of the proposed designation;
      5.   A list and photographs of significant exterior architectural
features;
      6.   A statement of which owners consent to the historic preservation
district designation and which do not. (Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.4.4: DESIGNATION PROCESS:
   A.   All reasonable efforts shall be made to secure the written consent of
the owner(s) before proceeding with the designation. The owner(s) of record of
any property for which an application is made shall be informed within ten (10)
working days of receipt of such application. A property may be included in a
historic preservation district without the owner(s) consent.
   B.   Upon receipt of the completed application, the Commission shall conduct
a public hearing within forty five (45) days. Notice of the public hearing will
be made to the owner(s) of record by certified mail, and to adjacent property
owners and the person(s) filing the application by regular mail. Notice will
also be placed in a newspaper of general circulation of the date, time, place,
and purpose of the public hearing no less than fifteen (15) but not more than
twenty nine (29) days prior to the hearing. A sign shall be placed on a
property within the proposed district, within full view of a public right of
way, giving notice of the date, time, place, and purpose of the public hearing
for no less than seven (7) days prior to the hearing.
   C.   At the public hearing, oral or written testimony pertinent to the
proposed designation shall be taken from any person or organization.
   D.   A decision shall be made within sixty (60) days following the date of
the closing of the public hearing. The evaluation and recommendation of the
commission, and all pertinent information shall be submitted to the city
council within thirty (30) days of the decision of the commission. Decisions
are made by a simple majority of commission members in attendance.
   E.   The owner(s) of record shall be notified promptly in a letter of the
decision of the commission and the date of the city council meeting at which
the application will be addressed.
   F.   To override a recommendation of the commission, a favorable vote of
three-fourths (3/4) of all the elected members of the city council is
necessary. (Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.4.5: NOTICE OF DESIGNATION:
Within thirty (30) days after designation, and on a yearly basis thereafter,
the commission shall notify the owner(s), and tenants if any, of the properties
in the historic preservation district that it has been designated as such, and
that a certificate of appropriateness or a certificate of hardship must be
issued by the commission before an owner or tenant can materially affect the
exterior appearance of a property or obtain a building permit for alterations.
(Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.4.6: RECOGNITION OF EXISTING HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT:
The following area, which includes the Woodstock square historic district as
listed on the National Register of Historic Places in December 1982, is
designated as the historic downtown business preservation district and is
legally described as:
Part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 44 North, Range 7 East of
the 3rd Principal Meridian, beginning at the intersection of the centerline of
South Street with the intersection with the centerline of Seminary Avenue;
thence northerly along the centerline of Seminary Avenue to the intersection
with the centerline of Hutchins Street; thence westerly along the centerline of
Hutchins Street to the intersection with the centerline of Madison Street;
thence northerly along the centerline of Madison Street to the intersection
with the centerline of Newell Street; thence westerly along the centerline of
Newell Street to the intersection with the centerline of Clay Street; thence
northerly along the centerline of Clay Street to the centerline of First
Street; thence westerly along the centerline of First Street to the centerline
of the Chicago & Northwestern Railroad right-of- way; thence southeasterly
along said right-of-way to the centerline of Wheeler Street; thence southerly
and southwesterly along the centerline of Wheeler Street to the intersection
with the centerline of Washington Street (Illinois Route 120); thence
northwesterly along the centerline of Washington Street 390 feet to a point;
thence southwesterly perpendicular to the centerline of Washington Street from
the last described point 285 feet to a point; thence westerly 386 feet to a
point, said point being on the west line of said Section 5; thence southerly
from the last described point to the centerline of Lincoln Avenue; thence
easterly along the centerline of Lincoln Avenue to the centerline of Tryon
Street; thence southerly along the centerline of Tryon Street to the
intersection of the centerline with Judd Street; thence westerly along the
centerline of Judd Street to the intersection with the centerline of Hayward
Street; thence southerly along the centerline of Hayward Street to the
intersection with the centerline of South Street; thence easterly along the
centerline of South Street to the place of beginning all within the City of
Woodstock, McHenry County, Illinois.
(Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.5: CATEGORY 2 MAJOR PROJECT:
7.7.5.1: CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS:
   A.   No alteration, new construction, improvement or demolition designated
as a category 2 major project shall be allowed within an existing or proposed
historic preservation district or upon an existing or proposed landmark unless
a certificate of appropriateness has been issued by the commission.
   B.   The building and zoning officer shall not issue a building permit or
demolition permit for any landmark or any historic structure unless a
certificate of appropriateness has been issued by the commission.
   C.   Any category 2 major project that affects the exterior architectural
features visible from any public way shall require a certificate of
appropriateness. (Ord. 02-0-12, 2-5-2002)
   D.   A certificate of appropriateness approval card shall be issued by the
department and shall be prominently displayed on the property until all
exterior work is completed. (Ord. 06-0-11, 2-7-2006)
7.7.5.2: CRITERIA FOR GRANTING A CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS:
   A.   The commission and the community development department shall consider
the following criteria, based on the secretary of the interior's standard for
rehabilitation, and any historic preservation guidelines approved by the city
council when reviewing an application for a certificate of appropriateness:
(Ord. 02-0-12, 2-5-2002)
      1.   A property shall be used for its historic purpose or to be placed in
a new use that requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of the
building and its site and environment.
      2.   The historic character of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and
spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.
      3.   Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place, and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development,
such as adding conjectural features or architectural elements from other
buildings, shall not be undertaken.
      4.   Most properties change over time; those changes that have acquired
historic significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.
      5.   Distinctive features, finishes, and construction techniques or
examples of craftsmanship that characterize a property shall be preserved.
      6.   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color,
texture, and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement
of missing features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or
pictorial evidence.
      7.   Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause
damage to historic materials shall not be used. The surface cleaning of
structures, if appropriate, shall be undertaken using the gentlest means
possible.
      8.   Significant archeological resources affected by a project shall be
protected and preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation
measures shall be undertaken.
      9.   New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new
work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the property and its environment.
      10.   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
(Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
   B.   The commission shall consider the following architectural design
elements when reviewing plans for a category 2 major project: (Ord. 02-0-12, 2-
5-2002)
      1.   Height And Roof: The height of proposed buildings and structures
shall be visually compatible with the style and character of the surrounding
structures. The roof shape shall be compatible with the architectural style of
the landmark and the surrounding structures to which it is visually related.
      2.   Proportion Of Front Facade: The relationship of the width to the
height of the front elevation shall be visually compatible with buildings,
public ways, and places to which it is visually related.
      3.   Proportion Of Openings: The proportion of window and doors shall be
compatible with the architectural style and character of the adjacent building
or buildings within the historic preservation district.
      4.   Relationship Of Spacing And Buildings: The relationship of a
building or structure to the open space between it and adjoining buildings
shall be visually compatible with the buildings, public ways, and places to
which it is visually related.
      5.   Scale: The size and mass of buildings and structures in relation to
open spaces, windows, door openings, porches and other projections shall be
visually compatible with the buildings, public ways and places to which they
are visually related.
      6.   Materials, Textures, Colors, And Architectural Detail: The
relationship of the materials, textures, colors, and architectural details
should be compatible with the predominant materials used in the existing
building or in the surrounding buildings and structures to which it is related.
      7.   Directional Expression: A building shall be visually compatible with
the buildings, public ways, and places to which it is visually related in its
directional character whether this be vertical, horizontal, or nondirectional
character.
      8.   Landscape: Landscape and appurtenances including signs, fences,
accessory structures and pavings shall be visually compatible with the
buildings, public ways and places to which they are visually related. Landscape
is not considered for one- and two-family dwelling units. (Ord. 2604, 1-16-
1996)
7.7.5.3: ORDINARY MAINTENANCE:
Cosmetic or ordinary maintenance items are not subject to a certificate of
appropriateness except significant changes in exterior schemes for
nonresidential uses. Exterior siding, porch improvements, railings, fences,
storm windows, storm doors, screens, exterior lighting, and similar items shall
be subject to this chapter. (Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.5.4: DEMOLITION:
Before granting a request for a certificate to demolish a structure which has
been designated a landmark or a structure within a historic preservation
district, the commission must find that at least one of the following
conditions exist:
   A.   The demolition request is for an inappropriate addition, or a
nonsignificant accessory structure, provided that the demolition will not
adversely affect those parts of a building or buildings which are significant
as determined by the commission; or
   B.   The demolition request is for a noncontributing building and the
demolition will not adversely affect the character of the historic preservation
district; or
   C.   The building and zoning officer for the city certifies that demolition
is required for the public safety because of an unsafe or dangerous condition;
or
   D.   The property owner shows that failure to allow demolition would involve
a substantial hardship, economic or otherwise, pursuant to the provisions of
section
7.7.5.6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.5.5: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Category 2 major project application forms, which are available from
the department, shall be completed and submitted to the department. The
department will forward the completed application to the commission for its
review. Department staff will be available to assist applicants in completing
their applications. A filing fee may be required.
   B.   In addition to the documents required for the issuance of a building
permit, the application shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
      1.   Structure Plan: A drawing including the color and type of surface
materials showing the front and rear elevations, and side elevations where
there are no adjoining buildings.
      2.   Landscape Plan: A drawing showing the location, dimensions and
arrangements of all open spaces and yards, including type and size of planting
materials, color and type of surface materials, methods to be employed for
screening and proposed grades. A landscape plan is not required for single-
family dwellings.
      3.   Plan Details: All plans submitted shall contain or show the
following: height and roof; proportion of front facade; proportion of openings;
relationship of spacing and buildings; scale; materials, textures, colors, and
architectural detail; and directional expression.
      4.   Written Statement: A written statement describing the proposed
construction, alteration, addition or demolition and setting forth the reasons
in support of the proposed action.
      5.   Demolition Applications: Demolition applications shall include
photographs of all exterior elevations and significant interior details.
   C.   The commission shall review the completed application at a regularly
scheduled meeting and shall approve, approve with modifications, or deny the
application within sixty (60) days of the meeting; in the event the application
is continued to another meeting(s), the sixty (60) day deadline shall be after
the last meeting. Written notice of the commission's decision shall be sent to
the applicant within seven (7) days of the decision.
   D.   A denial, or approval with modifications, shall be accompanied by a
statement containing the reasons for the decision. The commission may make
recommendations to the applicant that would cause the commission to reconsider
the application.
   E.   A denial, or approval with modifications, may be appealed pursuant to
the appeal process in section
2.9.6 of this code. (Ord. 02-0-12, 2-5-2002)
7.7.5.6: HARDSHIP:
   A.   A certificate of hardship shall be issued by the commission upon a
finding by it that all reasonable use of, or return from, a designated landmark
or property within a historic preservation district would be denied a property
owner as a result of the disapproval of a certificate of appropriateness.
   B.   The commission may solicit expert testimony, or the applicant may
submit evidence, concerning any of the following items at the time of the
public hearing on the certificate of appropriateness:
      1.   Any substantial decrease in the fair market value of the property as
a result of the denial of the certificate of appropriateness;
      2.   Any substantial decrease in the pretax or after tax return to owner
(s) of record or other investors in the property as a result of the denial of
the certificate of appropriateness;
      3.   Any additional cost of work necessary to comply with the standards
and criteria for the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness;
      4.   In the case of a proposed demolition, the economic feasibility of
rehabilitation or reuse of the existing structure on the property.
   C.   The commission may adopt procedural rules concerning the types of
information, evidence or expert testimony that it considers necessary to make a
determination on an application for a certificate of hardship.
   D.   Upon a finding by the commission that without approval of the proposed
work all reasonable use of, or return from, a designated landmark or property
within a historic preservation district will be denied a property owner, then
the application shall be delayed for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days.
During this period of delay, the commission shall investigate plans and make
recommendations to the city council to allow for a reasonable use of, or return
from, the property, or to otherwise preserve the subject property. Such plans
and recommendations may include, but are not limited to: a relaxation of the
provisions of this chapter, a reduction in real property taxes, financial
assistance, building code modifications, and/or changes in zoning regulations.
   E.   If by the end of this sixty (60) day period, the commission has found
that without approval of the proposed work, the property cannot be put to a
reasonable use or the owner cannot obtain a reasonable economic return
therefrom, then the commission shall issue a certificate of hardship approving
the proposed work. If the commission finds otherwise, it shall deny the
application for a certificate of hardship, and notify the applicant by mail of
the final denial.
   F.   In granting a certificate of hardship in such circumstances, the
commission may prescribe any conditions or limitations that may be necessary to
minimize the adverse impact of the requested alteration or demolition.
   G.   Appeal from the denial of a certificate of hardship may be made to the
city council in the same manner as an appeal from the issuance or denial of a
certificate of appropriateness. (Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.5.7: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
No building permit shall be issued for the alteration, construction,
improvement, or demolition of any building or structure within an existing or
proposed historic preservation district or upon an existing or proposed
landmark, until all requirements of this chapter, as well as applicable
construction codes of the city, have been met. A certificate of appropriateness
or a certificate of hardship shall be required prior to the issuance of such a
permit and shall be valid for a period of one year. (Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.5.8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
the fines and penalties set forth in section 1.4.1 of this code. If any person,
firm, organization or corporation receiving a citation for violating any
provision of this chapter fails to pay, settle or adjust the fine specified
herein, then adjudication procedures may be initiated in accordance with title
1, chapter 7, article L of this code or with a court of competent jurisdiction,
and such processes as necessary shall commence. (Ord. 09-0-24, 4-21-2009, eff.
5-1-2009)
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation who alters, repairs, relocates or
demolishes by neglect any landmark or any building or structure within a
historic preservation district without complying with the provisions of this
chapter shall be required to restore the building or structure and its site to
its appearance prior to the violation. This civil remedy shall be in addition
to and not in lieu of any criminal prosecution and penalty contained in this
section.
   C.   In the case of an unauthorized demolition of a landmark or any building
or structure within a historic preservation district, the city council may
prohibit the issuance of a building permit for the subject property for a
period of up to five (5) years after the date of the demolition. (Ord. 2604, 1-
16-1996; amd. Ord. 09-0-24, 4-21-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
7.7.5.9: PREVENTION OF DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT:
The commission, on its own initiative, may file a petition with the building
and zoning officer requesting that the department proceed under public safety
and housing codes to require correction of defects or repairs to eligible or
designated historic landmarks or to buildings or structures in historic
preservation districts so that such landmarks, buildings, and structures shall
be preserved and protected in accordance with the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2604, 1-16-1996)
7.7.6: CATEGORY 1 MINOR PROJECTS:
Category 1 minor projects shall not be undertaken without the issuance of a
certificate of appropriateness by the director. The criteria for a category 1
minor project certificate of appropriateness shall be as follows:
   A.   Forms; Fee: Category 1 minor project application forms, which are
available from the department, shall be completed and submitted to the
department. Department staff will be available to assist applicants in
completing their applications. A filing fee may be required.
   B.   Written Statement: A written statement describing the proposed category
1 minor project which includes the reasons in support of the proposed action
shall accompany the application.
   C.   Approval Or Denial; Notice: The director shall approve, approve with
modifications, or deny the application within sixty (60) days after it has been
submitted. Written notice of the director's decision shall be sent to the
applicant within seven (7) days of the decision.
   D.   Reconsideration: A denial, or approval with modifications, shall be
accompanied by a statement containing the reasons for the decision. The
director may make recommendations to the applicant that would cause the
director to reconsider the application.
   E.   Appeal Of Decision: In the event the application is denied the
applicant may appeal the decision to the commission pursuant to section
2.9.6 of this code. (Ord. 02-0-12, 2-5-2002)
CHAPTER 8
PROJECT REVIEW
SECTION:
7.8.1: Project Review Required
7.8.2: Scope And Jurisdiction Of Review
7.8.3: Project Plan Review Procedure
7.8.4: Compliance Requirements
7.8.5: Penalty
7.8.1: PROJECT REVIEW REQUIRED:
To promote the harmonious development of real estate within the city, and to
ensure that such properties are developed in accordance with the preamble of
ordinance 1470, project plans and project reviews are required, in addition to
the requirements of all other regulations of the municipal code of the city
prior to the issuance of building permits for construction of any of the
following types of improvements: (Ord. 1470, 11-7-1978; amd. Ord. 01-O-41, 11-
6-2001)
   A.   Required land improvements of a subdivision within the city's planning
and subdivision jurisdiction limits, but limited to entrance features, common
areas and/or open spaces prior to the construction of any subdivision
improvement.
   B.   Multiple-family dwellings for more than two (2) families.
   C.   Public, religious and institutional buildings.
   D.   Hospitals, clinics and nursing homes.
   E.   Hotels, motels and motor courts.
   F.   Commercial and industrial buildings. (Ord. 1470, 11-7-1978)
   G.   Appurtenant structures to above types of projects including, but not
limited to, parking areas, loading docks, driveways, guardhouses, porches,
canopies, courtyards and service yards. (Ord. 1470, 11-7-1978; amd. Ord. 2613,
3-6-1996)
   H.   Planned development as required by the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 1470,
11-7-1978)
7.8.2: SCOPE AND JURISDICTION OF REVIEW:
All development of structure sites and improvements identified within section
7.8.1 of this chapter within the city limits, except those sites under the
jurisdiction of review by the historic preservation commission, as determined
by this code, will be examined with respect to each of the following aspects:
(Ord. 01-O-41, 11-6-2001)
   A.   Compatibility of building and landscape design with surrounding
development, existing and future.
   B.   Traffic and traffic patterns, vehicular and pedestrian, both internally
on the site and externally, especially in relation to major thoroughfares.
   C.   Preservation of existing trees, shrubs and/or historic amenities.
   D.   Site grading and topography.
   E.   Provision for open space.
   F.   Screening between incompatible uses.
   G.   Effectiveness of exterior lighting and impact upon surrounding
properties and uses.
   H.   Water retention and runoff, in relation to adjoining properties and on
site amenities.
   I.   Relationship of structures and improvements to public utilities,
existing and proposed. (Ord. 1470, 11-7-1978)
   J.   Screening of refuse containers and accessory equipment. (Ord. 1470, 11-
7-1978; amd. Ord. 2613, 3-6-1996)
7.8.3: PROJECT PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE:
   A.   Before an applicant files a building permit application to construct a
building, structure or improvement as defined in section
7.8.1 of this chapter, the applicant shall first file an application for
project review with the community development department ("department" for
purposes of this chapter). (Ord. 01-O-41, 11-6-2001)
   B.   Project review applications shall include those materials required by
the plan commission ("commission" for purposes of this chapter) and the
department. (Ord. 01-O-41, 11-6-2001; amd. Ord. 12-O-21, 3-20-2012)
   C.   Upon receipt of the required filings, the department shall review the
application and plans for compliance with the commission's standards and other
city ordinances. The department shall provide the applicant with a written
report of its review no more than ten (10) business days after a completed
application has been filed. The written report shall include any problems or
deficiencies. The applicant may revise the application and resubmit it to the
department or file for an appeal pursuant to section
2.12.9 of this code.
   D.   Project review approval for an individual building site shall be
revoked in the event the applicant has not applied for a building permit for
the construction of the proposed structure within one year from the date of the
approval of the project.
   E.   Project review approval for a planned development shall be valid as
long as the preliminary and final plats of planned development are valid.
   F.   Prior to approval of the project review application, the applicant may
submit a building permit application to the building and zoning officer.
However, the building and zoning officer shall not issue a building permit
until written project plan approval has been received from the department and
the applicant has established an escrow or letter of credit with the city
pursuant to section
7.8.4 of this chapter. (Ord. 01-O-41, 11-6-2001)
7.8.4: COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, and subsequent to either
project review or city council action, the applicant for a building permit
shall deposit with the building inspector an itemized estimate of the cost of
the installation of all site improvements, including, but not limited to,
landscaping, plantings, lighting, driveways, off street parking and loading
facilities, sidewalks, parkways and interior streets. In addition to the
estimate of the costs of improvement, the applicant shall also deposit an
escrow deposit or letter of credit in a sum equal to one hundred ten percent
(110%) of the total improvement costs. Escrow accounts shall be created in an
institution designated by the city manager and shall be governed by the terms
and provisions in accordance with escrow agreements, forms of which are
available in the city offices and subject to the approval of the city manager
and the city attorney. (Ord. 1470, 11-7-1978; amd. Ord. 01-0-41, 11-6-2001)
   B.   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until all site improvements
have been completed; provided, however, that delays due to circumstances beyond
the control of the builder, developer or applicant may be recognized as a
condition for the issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy, provided
the buildings are otherwise complete. A temporary certificate of occupancy
shall not exceed six (6) months and is not renewable. A temporary certificate
of occupancy may be issued in such circumstances when an escrow deposit or
letter of credit has been deposited equaling one hundred ten percent (110%) of
the cost of any unfinished improvements as determined by the city's development
engineer.
   C.   All escrow deposits and letters of credit shall be conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the applicant and/or builder to complete all the
improvements specified in the project plan. If, in the judgment of the
development engineer the completion of the improvement is being or has been
unreasonably delayed, the development engineer shall serve notice upon the
builder or applicant at his last known address. If, within thirty (30) days
after the date of service of notice, the builder or applicant has not completed
the improvements, the development engineer shall cause the completion of the
improvements specified in the project plan, paying for such improvements out of
the balance of the escrow deposit or letter of credit.
   D.   Prior to the issuance of a final certificate of occupancy for any
improvement, the building owner or applicant shall file with his application
for a final certificate of occupancy, a surety bond in an amount equal to five
percent (5%) of the total cost of the improvements as originally provided in
the cost estimate. The surety bond shall be conditioned upon the workmanlike
installation of the project plan improvements, and shall guarantee the work of
the builder for a period of one year. Evidence of the use of faulty material,
negligence in construction or unworkmanlike performance, if determined by the
development engineer, shall cause forfeiture of the bond. The development
engineer shall then cause the repair and/or replacement of any faulty
construction using the proceeds of such bond to defray the cost of such repair
or replacement. The remainder of any bond forfeited for the repair or
replacement of the improvements shall be returned to the builder. Upon issuance
of the final certificate of occupancy and the filing of the required surety
bond with the city, all previous escrow accounts shall terminate and any
balance returned to the applicant or builder.
   E.   Any decision, ruling or regulation of the development engineer may be
appealed to the city council. The city council may sustain or overrule the
development engineer's decision, ruling or regulation. (Ord. 01-0-41, 11-6-
2001)
7.8.5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense, plus reasonable attorney fees incurred by
the city. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which such violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 01-0-41, 11-6-2001)
CHAPTER 9
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 06-0-93, 12-5-2006)
CHAPTER 10
CAPITAL EXPANSION FEE
(Rep. per letter dated 6-22-1998)
CHAPTER 11
DEVELOPMENT FEES
SECTION:
7.11.1: Zoning Fees
7.11.2: Subdivision Fees
7.11.3: Joint Fees
7.11.4: Development Review Deposits
7.11.5: Annexation Fees
7.11.6: CPI Adjustment
7.11.1: ZONING FEES:
The following fees are hereby established for the following services:
   A.   Zoning Amendment (Text Only): $500.00;
   B.   Zoning Amendment (Map/Rezoning): Base fee of $500.00 plus $50.00 for
each acre;
   C.   Zoning Special Use:
      1.   Planned developments: Base fee of $500.00 plus $50.00 for each acre;
      2.   All other special uses: Base fee of $500.00 plus $50.00 for each
acre;
   D.   Temporary Use Permit: $50.00, payable at the time of permit issuance;
and
   E.   Zoning, Variation And/Or Appeal: $125.00.
All fees specified herein shall be paid at the time of filing the first
document or petition. (Ord. 04-0-12, 1-6-2004)
7.11.2: SUBDIVISION FEES:
At the time of filing the first draft of a plat of subdivision a base fee of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus fifty dollars ($50.00) for each acre shall
be paid to the city. (Ord. 04-0-12, 1-6-2004)
7.11.3: JOINT FEES:
For any application involving more than one of the items listed in sections
7.11.1 and
7.11.2 of this chapter, the fee shall be calculated on the basis of the highest
fee plus five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each additional item. (Ord. 04-0-
12, 1-6-2004)
7.11.4: DEVELOPMENT REVIEW DEPOSITS:
   A.   Petitions for rezoning and/or annexation, the subdivision or
resubdivision of land for special uses or planned developments shall be
accompanied with a deposit as provided herein as security for the reimbursement
of review expenses incurred by the city. The amount of the deposit is
determined on the basis of total land area and shall consist of a base fee of
two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) plus the following sums:
1 to 20 acres   $100.00 per acre
21 to 50 acres   90.00 per acre
51 to 100 acres   80.00 per acre
Over 100 acres   A base fee of $8,000.00
   plus $70.00 per acre.
   B.   Development review deposits are held by the city to cover the expense
of reviewing both residential and nonresidential development activities,
including, but not limited to, subdivisions, planned developments, special
uses, rezonings and similar activities. The deposit shall be held by the city
until reimbursement of all costs for said activities has been received, at
which time the balance on the deposit will be refunded. In the event said costs
are not reimbursed by the petitioner, the city may use the deposit for
reimbursement.
   C.   Where unusual problems or conditions are encountered which require
additional review, the community development director may require the deposit
of additional funds to cover the cost of such additional review. (Ord. 04-0-12,
1-6-2004)
7.11.5: ANNEXATION FEES:
The following fees are hereby established for the annexation of land into the
city:
   A.   Land having an area of two (2) or more acres: One thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per acre, which shall be paid at the time of annexation, and one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per lot or unit, whichever is greater, which shall
be paid at the time the building permit is issued.
   B.   Annexation fees shall not be required for annexations which are
initiated by the city. (Ord. 04-0-12, 1-6-2004)
7.11.6: CPI ADJUSTMENT:
The fees required in this chapter shall be subject to a "CPI adjustment" which
shall be calculated on January 1, 2005, and on January 1 in each year
thereafter. Annually, the fees and cash contributions shall be adjusted by the
December–December percent change as published by the United States department
of labor's bureau of labor statistics, all items consumer price index ("CPI")
for urban consumers (1982-1984 = 100) for the Chicago consolidated metropolitan
statistical area, Illinois. If any index is calculated from a base different
from the base period 1982-1984 = 100, such index shall be converted to a base
period of 1982-1984 = 100 by use of a conversion factor supplied by said bureau
of labor statistics. If the CPI is discontinued or replaced, such other
governmental cost of living index or computation which replaces the CPI shall
be used in order to obtain substantially the same result as would be obtained
if the CPI had not been discontinued or replaced. (Ord. 04-0-12, 1-6-2004)
