VILLAGE CODE
of
WOODRIDGE, ILLINOIS
1991
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-19, passed 5-15-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Village of Woodridge, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 2025-19, passed 5-15-2025. Ordinances of the
Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ord 2025-34
 
BOARD MEETING
AGENDA ITEM - HISTORY/COMMENTARY
ITEM TITLE:  An Ordinance Amending Title 9 Chapter 3 (General AGENDA DATE:
Zoning Provisions)                                            08/7/2025
ITEM REVIEW
TO:   Mayor & Village Board
THROUGH:   Al Stonitsch, Village Administrator
FROM:   Kimberly Clarke, Director of Community Development INITIATOR:
   Jacob Sodaro, Planner
 
 
PURPOSE AND ACTION REQUESTED:
Consider adopting a proposed Ordinance authorizing certain Zoning Text
Amendments to Title 9, Chapter 3, Section 3 of the Woodridge Code of Ordinances
regarding certain detached garage regulations.
 
BACKGROUND:
Since the formal adoption of the Comprehensive Zoning Code update, staff have
been tracking items that need further clarification, do not work in
practicality, or were unintentionally changed as a part of the comprehensive
update.
 
DISCUSSION:
During the drafting of the final Zoning Code update, there was discussion
between staff and the consultant team, Teska Associates, on increasing the
maximum size of detached garages from 660 square feet to 1,000 square feet. It
was decided to keep the maximum area for a detached garage at 660 square feet
as an increase to 1,000 square feet was seen as too drastic of an increase from
the existing regulations and not in line with the desires of the Village at the
time. Within the redlines and drafts, however, all regulations involving the
maximum size of a detached garage were inadvertently dropped, so there is
currently no maximum size for detached garages. The proposed text amendment
would be reinstating the maximum of 660 square feet for detached garages,
reverting the regulation to what was already in place. At the direction of the
Village Board, an additional text amendment is being discussed and drafted by
staff regarding attached garages in the Village.
 
Plan Commission reviewed the text amendment at its meeting on July 21, 2025 and
provided a positive recommendation of 6-0.
 
RECOMMENDATION:
Staff is requesting Village Board approval of a recommendation to approve a
proposed ordinance authorizing certain Zoning Text Amendments to Title 9,
Chapter 3, Section 3, of the Municipal Code to reinstate regulations regarding
detached garages.
 
 
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3486_9597x281.jpg]
 
ATTACHMENTS:
Exhibit A Redlined Text Amendment (DOCX)
 
 
 
 
An Ordinance Amending Title 9 Chapter 3 (General Zoning Provisions)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3489_9578x440.jpg]
 
WHEREAS, the Village of Woodridge (the “Village”) is a home rule municipality
in
accordance with the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970;
 
 
WHEREAS, the Village has the authority to adopt ordinances and to promulgate
rules and regulations that pertain to its government and affairs that protect
the public health, safety and welfare of its citizens;
 
 
WHEREAS, on or about March 7, 2024, the Village approved Ordinance No. 24-06
adopting the entirety of the Zoning Code, Title 9 of the Village Code of the
Village of Woodridge (the “Code”);
WHEREAS, on or about June 27, 2025, staff initiated a text amendment to update
Title 9, Chapter 3, Section 3 of the Code, regulating detached garages (the
“proposed Text Amendment”);
WHEREAS, Notice of Public Hearing on said proposed Text Amendment was published
on or about July 4, 2025, as required by the ordinances of the Village and the
Statues of the State of Illinois;
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities of the Village have received the
recommendation of the Plan Commission, pursuant to Minutes dated July 21, 2025,
a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit "B" which are, by this reference,
incorporated herein;
WHEREAS, the Mayor and Board of Trustees have received the recommendation, a
redlined version of which is attached hereto as Exhibit "A" which is, by this
reference, incorporated herein; and
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have reviewed the proposed Text Amendment
and have determined it to be in the public interest to approve the same.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Woodridge, DuPage, Will and Cook Counties, Illinois, as follows:
 
 
SECTION ONE: That the recitals set forth hereinabove are incorporated herein by
reference as substantive provisions of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION TWO: That Title 9, Chapter 3, Section 3 of the Code, is hereby amended
to
clarify regulations regarding detached garages in the Village, as set forth in
Exhibit “A” hereto.
 
 
SECTION THREE: If any section, paragraph, clause, sentence or provision of this
Ordinance shall be found and determined to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, all valid parts that are severable from the invalid parts shall
remain in full force and effect.
 
 
SECTION FOUR: All ordinances and resolutions, or parts thereof, in conflict
with the provisions of this Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict,
hereby repealed.
 
 
SECTION FIVE: This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage, approval and publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PASSED this 7th day of August, 2025.
RESULT:   ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:   Kay Page, Trustee
SECONDER: Curtis Nekovar, Trustee
AYES: Nekovar, Martinez, Anteliz, Page, Kagann
 
 
APPROVED this 7th day of August, 2025.
 
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3492_4463x950.jpg]
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3495_4463x1087.jpg]
 
 
Filed in the Office of the Village Clerk and published in pamphlet form by
authority of the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of Woodridge,
DuPage, Will, and Cook Counties, Illinois, this 7th day of August, 2025.
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3498_4463x1087.jpg]
 
 
 
 
 
C. Garages:
1.   An attached garage shall comply with all zoning district regulations applicable to
the principal building, structure or use to which it is accessory and shall have a
maximum gross floor area of one thousand (1,000) square feet.
1.2.   A detached garage shall not exceed six hundred and sixty 
(660) square feet.
2.3.   The maximum cumulative area permitted for all garages, attached or
detached on a single lot shall be a maximum gross floor area of one thousand
(1,000) square feet, subject to Subsection 9-3-3.C.
3.4.   If a garage is converted to living space, then the driveway leading to the
former garage must be removed and landscaped, and the curb cut must be
restored.
 
 
 
 
 
 
ord 2025-35
 
 
 
BOARD MEETING
AGENDA ITEM - HISTORY/COMMENTARY
ITEM TITLE:  An Ordinance Amending Title 9 Chapter 8 (Landscaping AGENDA DATE:
and Screening)                                                    08/7/2025
ITEM REVIEW
TO:   Mayor & Village Board
THROUGH:   Al Stonitsch, Village Administrator
FROM:   Kimberly Clarke, Director of Community Development INITIATOR:
   Gabriella Baldassari, Senior Planner
 
 
PURPOSE AND ACTION REQUESTED:
Staff is requesting Village Board consideration of a proposed Ordinance authorizing certain Zoning Text Amendments to Title
9, Chapter 8 of the Municipal Code to amend language regulating landscaping and tree preservation.
BACKGROUND:
On March 3rd, 2024, the Village Board adopted the comprehensive update to Title 9 per Ordinance 2024-6. This served to
modernize the text, including reorganization of the landscape and tree preservation sections. The tree preservation code
became much simpler to navigate, and landscape requirements became clearer and more direct.
Since the comprehensive text update, staff continue to identify parts of the zoning code that are incorrect or do not
function as intended. For example, an alternative to strict compliance with the irrigation requirement was added to the
landscape code to promote water conservation. In practice, the regulation falls short of the intent. Additionally, staff
found the maintenance and monitoring period specific to landscaping is listed differently from the maintenance and
monitoring period used for public improvements. In researching these two issues, staff reached out to industry
professionals and connected with the Chicago Region Trees Initiative (CRTI) hosted through the Morton Arboretum. This
program offers guidance for tree preservation, maintenance, and installation, specifically for municipalities. Through
conversation with CRTI, it was determined that the longevity of trees should be the focus rather than the length of time of
the maintenance and monitoring period. As such, a series of landscape text amendments are proposed.
DISCUSSION:
Below is a summary of proposed changes to the landscape and tree preservation sections of the Zoning Ordinance.
 ∙   Text was updated for clarity and accuracy.
 ∙   Zoning officer’s decision to exempt development from a tree preservation plan is now
 tied to impact on the critical root zone.
 ∙   Required caliper of replacement trees decreased to encourage plantings that are more likely to survive.
 ∙   Tree   caliper   requirements   were   made   consistent   between   replacement   trees,
 
 
 landscaping trees, and parking lot landscaping trees.
 ∙   The maintenance and monitoring period was amended to 18 months for consistency
 with current practice.
 ∙   Landscape design standards were condensed for a more succinct explanation that
 now refers to a preferred planting list hosted by the Morton Arboretum.
 ∙   References for appropriate procedures and standards have been updated.
 ∙   A requirement is specifically listed to ban volcano mulching.
 ∙   The alterative option to plant native landscaping rather than install an
 irrigation system was removed, as it was determined that even native landscaping
 may require irrigation, and native landscaping is not always the best solution.
 ∙   Standards for sustainable irrigation have been added.
 ∙   M-1 was added to the list of zoning districts where BMPs apply.
 ∙   Added a reference to the sight distance triangle.
Plan Commission reviewed the text amendment at its meeting on July 21, 2025 and
provided a positive recommendation of 6-0, with certain edits as explained below.
 ∙   The maintenance and monitoring period was not consistently changed throughout
 the draft text, this has been updated in the attached redline.
 ∙   It was recommended the tree caliper maximum be removed to provide flexibility
 for applicants. This is further discussed below.
Prior to this proposed amendment, required tree caliper was listed as a minimum of
3 inches for replacement trees, a minimum of 3 inches for landscaping trees, and a
minimum of 2.5 inches for parking lot landscaping trees. There is no scientific
reason for a different size in the parking lot versus the remainder of the
property. Staff’s recommendation, built through consultation with CRTI, amends the
text for all new trees to have a caliper of 2-3 inches. Plan Commission’s
recommendation would remove the maximum tree caliper to allow for flexibility for
applicants. Staff further researched the topic and maintains the recommendation for
the tree caliper maximum to be included in the code. Per the International Society
of Arbiculture, the tree caliper range provided is widely accepted as best
practice, as it is rooted in scientific studies based on survival of the tree and
overall establishment. The maximum is intended to provide for less upkeep and
higher likelihood of the trees surviving. As such, this text has been left
unchanged, but highlighted for convenience, in the attached redline.
Plan Commission also discussed, but did not formally recommend, for staff to ensure
consistent practices with Public Works, and to work on communicating the changes to
businesses and landscapers.
RECOMMENDATION:
Staff is recommending Village Board approval of a proposed Ordinance authorizing
certain Zoning Text Amendments to Title 9, Chapter 8, of the Municipal Code to
modify regulations relating to Landscaping and Screening.
 
ACTION PROPOSED:
Approval of the Ordinance
 
 
 
 
 
(DOCX)
ATTACHMENTS:
Exhibit A - Redlined Text
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3503_9597x831.jpg]
 
 
 
An Ordinance Amending Title 9 Chapter 8 (Landscaping and Screening)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3506_9578x440.jpg]
 
WHEREAS, the Village of Woodridge (the “Village”) is a home rule municipality
in
accordance with the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970;
 
 
WHEREAS, the Village has the authority to adopt ordinances and to promulgate
rules and regulations that pertain to its government and affairs that protect
the public health, safety and welfare of its citizens;
 
WHEREAS, on or about March 7, 2024, the Village approved Ordinance No. 24-06
adopting the entirety of the Zoning Code, Title 9 of the Village Code of the
Village of Woodridge (the “Code”);
WHEREAS, on or about June 1, 2025, staff initiated a text amendment to update
Title 9, Chapter 8 of the Code, regulating Landscaping and Screening (the
“proposed Text Amendment”);
WHEREAS, Notice of Public Hearing on said proposed Text Amendment was published
on or about July 6, 2025, as required by the ordinances of the Village and the
Statues of the State of Illinois;
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities of the Village have received the
recommendation of the Plan Commission, pursuant to Minutes dated July 21, 2025,
a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit "B" which are, by this reference,
incorporated herein;
WHEREAS, the Mayor and Board of Trustees have received the recommendation, a
redlined version of which is attached hereto as Exhibit "A" which is, by this
reference, incorporated herein; and
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have reviewed the proposed Text Amendment,
and have determined it to be in the public interest to approve the same.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Woodridge, DuPage, Will and Cook Counties, Illinois, as follows:
 
 
SECTION ONE: That the recitals set forth hereinabove are incorporated herein by
reference as substantive provisions of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION TWO: That Title 9, Chapter 8 of the Code, is hereby amended to clarify
regulations regarding Landscaping and Tree Preservation in the Village, as set forth in Exhibit “A”
hereto.
 
 
SECTION THREE: If any section, paragraph, clause, sentence or provision of this
Ordinance shall be found and determined to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, all valid parts that are severable from the invalid parts shall
remain in full force and effect.
 
 
SECTION FOUR: All ordinances and resolutions, or parts thereof, in conflict
with the provisions of this Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict,
hereby repealed.
 
 
SECTION FIVE: This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage, approval and publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PASSED this 7th day of August, 2025.
RESULT:   ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:   Curtis Nekovar, Trustee
SECONDER: Joe Kagann, Trustee
AYES: Nekovar, Martinez, Anteliz, Page, Kagann
 
APPROVED this 7th day of August, 2025.
 
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3509_4463x950.jpg]
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3512_4463x1087.jpg]
 
 
 
Filed in the Office of the Village Clerk and published in pamphlet form by
authority of the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of Woodridge,
DuPage, Will, and Cook Counties, Illinois, this 7th day of August, 2025.
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3515_4463x1087.jpg]
 
 
 
 
9-8-1   : PURPOSE:
The tree preservation, landscaping, screening, tree preservation, and
screening requirements and stormwater basin maintenance requirements in this
Chapter foster aesthetically pleasing development that will protect and
preserve the appearance, character, general health and welfare of the Village.
Specifically, these regulations are intended to increase the compatibility of
adjacent uses by requiring a buffer or screen between uses. In doing so, the
regulations minimize potentially harmful impacts of noise, dust, debris, motor
vehicle headlight glare, artificial light intrusions, and other objectionable
impacts created by an adjoining or nearby use. These regulations also are
intended to enhance property values and provide the following
environmental benefits:
A.   Enhance and preserve air quality through filtering of pollutants.
B.   Reduce topsoil erosion through the soil retention effect of tree roots.
C.   Reduce energy consumption through the windbreak, shade and transpiration
effects of trees.
D.   Minimize wildlife habitat loss and preserve nesting areas for birds which
in turn assist in the control of insects.
E.   Reduce stormwater runoff and associated costs and replenish ground water
supplies. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-2    : APPLICABILITY:
A.   Tree Preservation Plan:
1.   Tree Preservation Plan Required: A tree preservation plan prepared in
accordance with Section 9-8-3 shall be submitted to and approved by the Village
in the connection with:
a.   Any application for approval of a subdivision of land.
b.   Any application for annexation, rezoning, variation, special use permit,
or planned unit development.
c.   Any building permit application that involves increasing the impervious
area of any property by ten percent (10%) or more.
d.   Any application for a grading permit or utility installation.
e.   Any activity on undeveloped or underdeveloped land not otherwise addressed
above that anticipates or involves the actual or reasonably likely damage or
removal of a qualifying tree.
 
2.   Exemptions: A Tree Removal PlanA Tree Preservation Plan is not required in
the following circumstances:
a.   Lots containing existing single-family detached houses in residentially
zoned districts.
b.   Village owned rights of way.
c.   In cases where the the Zoning Officer determines the Critical Root Zone of
large areas of trees will not be disturbed. Zoning Officer, based on
information provided by the applicant regarding development plans and
procedures, determines that removal or damage of a qualifying tree is not
expected to occur as a result of the proposed activity.
3.   Approval:
a.   In cases where a: (1) Final subdivision plat; (2) Special use permit; or
(3) Final PUD plan; A tree preservation plan shall be approved by the Village
Board as part of those matters.
b.   Where Village Board approval is not required, the tree preservation plan
shall be approved by the Zoning Officer, in keeping with standards set out in
this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-3   : TREE PRESERVATION PLAN AND REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Contents of Tree Preservation Plans: The tree preservation plans shall
include the following information:
1.   The name, telephone number and address of applicant, property owner,
developer and builder.
2.   Delineation of the buildings, structures, or paved surfaces situated
thereon and/or contemplated to be built thereon.
3.   Delineation of all areas to be graded and limits of land disturbance.
4.   A map (tree survey) showing the locations of all existing qualifying
trees, each of which shall be keyed to the tree list.
5.   A list noting the size, species, tree canopy size, and condition of all
existing qualifying trees, as defined by the Village Code, within the area to
be platted or on the parcel proposed to be developed. Tree condition shall be
determined by a certified arborist, forester or landscape architect in keeping
with the definitions in Table 1 , “Tree Condition Rating Scale” below.
 
6.   Size, species, condition and location of all existing qualifying trees
located on adjacent properties whose trunks are located within twenty feet
(20') of the subject property line. Tree condition shall be determined by a
certified arborist, forester or landscape architect in keeping with the
definitions in Table 1 , “Tree Condition Rating Scale” below.
7.   Identification of all qualifying trees proposed to be removed. These trees
shall be identified in both graphic and tabular form.
8.   Calculations showing how many replacement trees are required based
on Table 2 , "Tree Replacement Schedule", of this section.
9.   Calculations showing how many replacement trees are proposed.
10.   Size, species, and location of all replacement trees proposed to be
planted on the property in accordance with Table 2 , "Tree Replacement
Schedule", of this section.
11.   Measures proposed to protect existing trees to be retained, both on the
subject property and on neighboring properties within twenty feet (20') of the
subject property line, in keeping with Section 9-8-3 -B below.
12.   Current plat of survey of the property.
13.   Signature of the person preparing the plan.
14.   A current certificate issued by an International Society of Arboriculture
certified arborist, a Society of American Foresters certified forester, or
Illinois registered landscape architect stating that the tree preservation plan
complies with the provisions of the tree preservation regulations.
15.   As determined by the Zoning Officer, additional information that may be
needed for complete understanding of the requested tree preservation plan
approval shall be provided by the applicant. Further, should the Zoning Officer
determine that one or more of the items indicated in this subsection are not
relevant to or needed to consider the requested tree preservation plan
approval, the Zoning Officer may waive the requirement to provide any item
listed in this Section 9-8-3 -A.
B.   Tree Replacement: The number of trees required as replacement
for qualifying trees removed shall be as follows:
1.   Rating one (1) trees shall be replaced as indicated in Table 2 below.
2.   Rating two (2) trees shall be replaced at half the rate indicated in Table
2 below.
3.   Rating three trees shall be replaced at a rate of one quarter of the rate
indicated in Table 2 .
 
4.   `No replacement trees shall be required for Rating 4 or Rating 5 trees,
as defined in Table 1 , “Tree Condition Rating Scale”, of this section.
5.   In calculating the total number of replacement trees, sums including a
fraction of a replacement tree shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number.
6.   Fee In-Lieu: It may be impractical to plant the required number of
replacement trees on the project site due to space limitations or the density
of existing trees. Such determination shall be made by the Zoning Officer based
on evidence provided by the applicant. If such is found to be the case the
Village may allow the payment of a fee in- lieu for each replacement tree not
planted on the subject property. Said fee shall be as specified in the Village
of Woodridge Fee Schedule. The collected fee in-lieu shall be used to plant
trees on public property at the City’s Village’s discretion.
7.   Replacement trees required in addition to required landscaping.
 
 
 
 
TABLE 1: Tree Condition Rating Scale
Rating Description General Criteria
                   The tree is typical of the species, has less than ten percent (10%) deadwood in the
1      Excellent   crown that is attributable  to  normal  causes,  has  no  other
                   observed problems and requires no remedial action.
                   The tree is typical of the species and/or has less than thirty percent (30%) deadwood
                   in the crown, one (1) or two (2) minor problems that are not imminently lethal to the
2      Good        tree, and no significant decay or structural problems, but the tree may need remedial
                   care above normal care in order to minimize the impact of future stress and to ensure
                   continued health.
                   The tree is not typical of the species and/or has significant problems such as thirty
                   percent (30%) to fifty percent (50%) deadwood in the crown, serious decay or
3      Fair        structural defect, insects, disease or other
                   problems that can be imminently lethal to the tree or create a hazardous tree if not
                   corrected in a short period of time or if the tree is subjected to additional
                   stress.
 
 
       The tree is not typical of the species and/or has over fifty percent (50%) deadwood
       in the crown, major decay or structural problems, is hazardous or is severely
4 Poor involved with insects, disease, or other problems that even if aggressively
       corrected would
       not result in the long term survival of the tree.
5 Dead Less than ten percent (10%) of the tree shows signs
       of life.
 
 
 
Table 2: Tree Replacement Schedule
Type Of Tree Removed       Size                   Number Of Replacement Trees
                                                  Required
                           6 inch up to, but not
                           including, 12          1
                           inch
                           12 inch up to, but not 2
                           including, 24 inch
                           24 inch up to, but not 3
Deciduous (size is DBH)    including, 36 inch
                           36 inch up to, but not 4
                           including, 48 inch
                           48 inch up to, but not 5
                           including, 60 inch
                           60 inch and larger     5 plus 1 additional tree for
                                                  each 12 inches of diameter
Evergreen (size is height) 112 foot up to, but    2
                           not including, 24 foot
 
 
 24 foot and larger 4
 
 
 
C.   Replacement Tree Requirements:
1.   All replacement shade trees shall have a minimum caliper of three 2 inches
and a maximum caliper of 2.5 inches. (3”).
2.   All replacement coniferous trees shall have a minimum height of six feet 
(6’).
3.   Replacement trees may not include any tree included in the definition of a
Rating Two through Rating Five in this Code.
4.   A variety of tree species are encouraged to promote a diverse tree canopy
and minimize the impact from disease and infestation, thus when twenty (20) or
more replacement trees are required no more than twenty percent (20%) of the
replacement trees shall be of one (1) species type.
5.   A maximum of twenty percent (20%) of replacement trees may be coniferous
trees.
D.   Tree Preservation Priority Areas: The applicant shall preserve as many
trees as possible, placing highest priority for preservation upon those trees
located in:
1.   Wooded wetlands.
2.   Wooded floodplains.
3.   Wooded stream corridors.
4.   Wooded slopes equal to or greater than twenty five percent (25%) slope.
5.   The perimeter of the subject property.
E.   Transplanted Trees: Existing trees less than six inches (6") diameter at
breast height (DBH) may be transplanted elsewhere on site and used to satisfy
any tree replacement requirements or landscape requirements of this chapter
provided they meet the minimum size, species, condition and quality
requirements for new and/or replacement trees.
F.   Tree Protection Measures: The protective measures listed below shall be
incorporated into all tree preservation plans, and shall be adhered to on site
prior to and during construction:
 
1.   A tree protection fence shall be installed prior to the commencement of
grading or construction and located so as to protect the critical root zone of
all trees designated for preservation in accordance with the approved tree
preservation plan. Said fence shall be located no closer to each tree to be
preserved than at the outside edge of each tree's dripline.
2.   Tree protection fencing shall consist of brightly colored plastic mesh or
snow fencing a minimum of forty-eight inches (48") in height. It shall be
securely attached to metal fence posts that are driven into the ground and that
are spaced no more than eight feet (8') apart.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3518_9172x5678.jpg]
 
 
 
 
3.   No encroachment, grading, trenching, filling, compaction, waste dumping,
concrete washout, change in soil chemistry, or storage of materials, equipment
or vehicles shall occur within the fenced areas.
4.   When roots two inches (2") in diameter and greater must be severed, the
ends shall be cut cleanly with a saw under the supervision or direction of an
arborist certified by the International Society of Arboriculture to prevent the
onset of decay. If they are accidentally broken or crushed, the root shall be
saw cut above the ragged end. In all cases, the cut roots shall be immediately
buried, mulched, or otherwise kept moist to preserve viability.
 
5.   Tree protection fencing shall remain in place until the completion of
construction, as determined by the Zoning Officer.
G.   Amendments To Approved Tree Preservation Plan: Once a tree preservation
plan has been approved, the Zoning Officer may authorize deviations if changed
facts or circumstances not within the control of the applicant create an undue
hardship in complying with the approved plan. The proposed amended tree
preservation plan shall be submitted for review and be accompanied by a written
statement describing the proposed changes and reasons therefor. No amendment
shall be permitted to delete a qualifying tree from preservation that has been
damaged or where the provisions of the approved plan have not been followed
unless the amendment provides for the addition of required replacement trees to
compensate for the damage or loss of said qualifying tree(s).
H.   Maintenance Guarantee: A deposit shall be made to the Village in cash or
letter of credit and in a form acceptable to the Village Attorney equal to ten
percent (10%) of the estimated cost of the installation and implementation of
the tree protection measures and required replacement trees. The deposit shall
be a guarantee of survival of the preserved trees and replacement trees and
shall be held by the village for a period of two eighteen (18) months(2)
years from the date of acceptance of the last public or private improvement for
the development, or if none, of the date of issuance of the final occupancy
permit. After such eighteen (18) months, two (2) years, the deposit shall be
refunded if no trees have died or are in poor condition, as determined by the
Zoning Officer. If trees have died or are in poor condition, then the party
that posted the guarantee shall replace them. A portion of the deposit shall
continue to be held an additional two (2) yearseighteen (18) months from the
date of replacement to guarantee the survival of the replacement trees, the
amount to be determined by the Village Engineer. The balance of the original
deposit, if any, shall be refunded.
I.   Penalties For Noncompliance with the Tree Preservation Plan:
1.   At their discretion, the Village Engineer or the Zoning Officer may issue
a stop work order for noncompliance with the tree preservation plan. Stop work
orders shall remain in effect until the site is brought into compliance with
the tree preservation plan.
2.   Fines may be assessed in accordance with Section 1-4-1 of the Village Code
for noncompliance with the tree preservation plan. If the offense involves
damage to qualifying trees, each damaged tree shall constitute a separate
offense. Each day the site is in noncompliance shall constitute a
separate offense.
3.   Replacements for damaged trees shall be provided at twice the rate
indicated in Table 1 , "Tree Replacement Schedule", of this section. (Ord.
2024-6, 3-7-2024)
 
9-8-4   : LANDSCAPE PLAN AND REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Required Landscape Plans:
1.   A Preliminary Landscape Plan prepared in accordance with Section 9-8-4 A.
shall be required as a part of preliminary subdivision, concept planned unit
development plan and plat review applications.
a.   A Final Landscape Preliminary prepared in accordance with Section 9-8-4 B.
shall be required as a part of Site Plan Review (Section 9-6-6 : Site Plan
Review) applications, special use applications, final subdivision plat, final
planned unit development, and plan and plat review applications.
b.   Required Landscape Plan Content: Preliminary landscape plans
shall include:
(1)   Approximate quantity and location of all plant materials by plant type
and location;
(2)   Approximate height of berming and aesthetic features;
(3)   Location of landscape yards and parking lot landscaping;
(4)   Natural features to remain; and
(5)   Certificate from an Illinois registered landscape architect stating that
the preliminary landscape plan complies with the provisions of the landscaping,
screening and stormwater maintenance regulations.
C.   Final landscape plans shall include the following detailed information:
1.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed structures,
natural features, parking lots and drives, roadways and rights of way,
sidewalks, bicycle paths, ground signs, refuse disposal and compactor areas,
bicycle parking areas, fences, freestanding electrical equipment, utility
easements, tot lots and other recreational facilities, and other adjacent
freestanding structure features, as determined necessary by the Zoning Officer.
2.   The location, quantity, size, root ball condition root ball packaging 
(e.g., balled and burlapped or potted) and both scientific and common names of
all proposed materials.
3.   The location of all proposed berming indicating contours at one foot
(1') contours and percent of slope.
4.   Specification of the type, boundaries, size and spacing of all proposed
ground cover.
 
5.   The designation, location, quantity, size and both botanic and common
names of all existing plant materials intended to remain on the site which is
to be developed.
6.   Elevations of all fences, bridges, retaining walls, or other similar
details proposed for location on the site.
7.   Elevations, cross sections and other details as determined necessary by
the Plan Commission.
8.   A title block indicating the preparer, property owner, date, scale, and
north arrow.
9.   A current certificate issued by an Illinois registered landscape architect
stating that the final landscape plan complies with the provisions of the
landscaping, screening and stormwater maintenance regulations contained herein.
10.   An inset drawing showing the location, design, screening and
elevation details of any trash enclosures.
11.   Irrigation system details or proof of compliance with alternate options
described in Section 9-8-5 A.10..
D.   Exceptions to Landscape Plan Requirements: As determined by the Zoning
Officer, additional information that may be needed for complete understanding
of the requested landscape plan approval shall be provided by the applicant.
Further, should the Zoning Officer determine that one (1) or more of the items
indicated in this subsection are not relevant to or needed to consider the
requested landscape plan approval, the Zoning Officer may waive the requirement
to provide any item listed in Section 9-8-4 B. and C.
E.   Changes to Approved Landscape Plan: Once a landscape plan has been
approved and a building permit issued, the Zoning Officer may authorize
deviations from the approved landscape plan including but not limited to the
substitution of equivalent approved plantings and ground covers. Such
deviations and/or substitutions shall be submitted with a revised landscape
plan and a statement describing such changes. Any such changes shall require
the written approval of the Zoning Officer upon their finding that the
requested changes are of equal or greater aesthetic quality as the original
plan. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-5   : LANDSCAPE DESIGN STANDARDS:
The following landscape design standards shall apply for all non-single
– family residential development in the Village of Woodridge.
A.   General Design Guidelines for all Plantings: As part of reviewing planting
plans related to zoning requests and Site Plan Review (Section 9-6-6 : Site
Plan Review)
 
consideration, the Village shall take into account and approve plans in keeping
with the follow standards:
1.   The arrangement of trees and shrubs shall be done in a manner that
provides the maximum visual separation between adjacent land uses. Plant
materials shall be massed in groups to achieve a naturalistic and
pleasing effect.
2.   Required screening shall not be interrupted for any reason except for
required walks, driveways, pedestrian or bicycle paths and fences.
3.   Planting materials used in conformance with the provisions of this section
shall be of good quality, and of a species normally grown in northeastern
Illinois and capable of withstanding site microclimates. Size and density at
the time of planting and at maturity are additional criteria which must be
considered when selecting plant materials.Trees must be mulched, though volcano
mulching is prohibited.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3521_7649x5422.jpg]
 
4.   All landscaping material shall be installed in accordance with the
planting procedures established by the American Nursery and Landscape
Association, and the American National Standards Institute A300, part 6 (tree
planting standards). Association of Nurserymen.
5.   Scale and Nature of Landscape Material: The scale and nature of landscape
material shall be appropriate to the site and structures. Larger scaled
buildings, for example, shall generally be complemented by plants which will
grow to a larger scale.
 
6.   Selection of Plant Material: Plant material shall also be selected for its
form, texture, color, and concern for its ultimate growth. Evergreens shall be
incorporated into the landscape treatment of a site, particularly in those
areas screening parking lots from dedicated public rights-of-way or property
zoned for residential use. The use of silver maples, box elders, Russian
olives, Lombardy poplars, catalpa, willows, mulberry, tree of heaven, and other
weak wooded species shall be avoided unless determined appropriate by the Plan
Commission. Acceptable trees shall include select species on the Morton
Arboretum’s Northern Illinois Tree Species List, and shall be selected with
consideration to site conditions and tree tolerances. Trees with invasive
qualities shall not be planted.
7.   Softening of Walls and Fences: Plant materials shall be placed
intermittently along long expanses of building walls, fences and other barriers
to soften the appearance of the barrier.
8.   Artificial Plants: No artificial plants may be used to satisfy the
requirements of this chapter.
9.   Energy Conservation:
a.   Deciduous trees which are sun tolerant shall be placed on the south
and west sides of buildings to provide shade from summer sun.
b.   Evergreens and other plant materials which are shade tolerant shall be
concentrated on the north side of buildings to dissipate the effect of
winter winds.
Berming: Earthen berms and existing topography shall, whenever practical, be
incorporated into the landscape treatment of a site. Berms shall be stabilized
to prevent erosion and of such a slope to allow maintenance of same.
10.   Watering Plant Material: Installation of an automatic underground
irrigation system is required. All landscaping shall must be irrigated.
a. Irrigation systems shall prioritize water conservation by implementing
design elements including but not limited to: bubblers rather than spray heads,
use of a smart irrigation system that so bubblers do not turn on during rain,
and planning for regular maintenance.
    a. In unique circumstances, the requirement of an irrigation system may
be modified if the landscape plan provides sustainability and efficiency
features beyond what is required herein.
An applicant may request, and an exemption from this requirement may be
authorized by the Zoning Officer upon finding that in accordance with best
practices for the particular situation, as defined by a regional agency or
similar authority on landscaping,
 
that such automatic underground irrigation is not necessary. The applicant
shall provide such information to the Zoning Officer, along with an irrigation
plan to ensure long term survival of planted materials. The Zoning Officer
shall make their determination regarding the exemption based on this evidence
provided by the applicant.
11.   Landscape design must account for the mature size of plantings to ensure
compliance with the Sight Distance Triangle requirements( 9-5-3).
 
 
B.   Specific Design Standards for all Plantings:
1.   Minimum Plant Materials:
a.   . All shade trees shall have a minimum caliper of 2 inches and a maximum
caliper of 2.5 inches.
    2b. All replacement coniferous trees shall have a minimum height of six
feet (6’).
Shade Trees: All shade trees shall have a minimum trunk size of three inches
(3”) in diameter, as measured six inches (6”) above the established ground.
bc.   Ornamental Trees: All ornamental trees, shall be fully branched and
have a minimum trunk sizecaliper of two inches (2”). measured six inches (6”)
above the established ground.
cd.   Shrubs:
(1)       (1) Deciduous shrubs shall have a minimum height of eighteen inches
(18”) for low shrubs and a minimum height of twenty-four inches (24”) for
tall shrubs.
(1)(2) Gallon sized perennials.
(32) Evergreen shrubs shall have a minimum spread of twenty-four inches
(24”).
(34) All shrubs shall have a minimum ball diameter in accordance with the most
recent edition of the American standards for nursery stock as sponsored and
approved by the All landscaping material shall be installed in accordance with
the planting procedures established by the American Nursery and Landscape
Association, and the American National Standards Institute A300, part 6 (tree
planting standards).American Association of Nurserymen and the American
National Standards Institute, Inc.
d.   Planting Beds: Planting beds shall be mulched with bark chips or shredded
bark mulch to a minimum depth of two inches (2”) for flower and ground cover
beds and three inches (3”) for tree and shrub beds.
 
e.   Detention/Retention Basins and Pondsand Maintenance: Detention and
/retention basins facilitiesand ponds and shall shall be landscaped with live
ground covering or native plantings, such as wetlands and/or native prairie,
and maintained in accordance with Title 8, Chapter 1, Article L of the
municipal code..
f. Stormwater Basin Maintenance: All stormwater basins planted with
natural prairie or wetland plantings shall be maintained in accordance with
title 8, chapter 1, article L of this code.
2.   Minimum Landscaped Area: A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the total
site area shall be landscaped, which shall include all vegetation, plazas,
fountains, bikeways, ornamental features, ponds and stormwater retention and
detention areas, but not private sidewalks providing access to buildings,
driveways, aisles, landbanked parking spaces or parking spaces.
3.   Foundation Landscaping:
a.   Setback: A landscaped areaFoudndation landscaping extending a minimum of
five feet (5’) in width shall be located around the front and side of
all buildings.
b.   Coverage: Required landscaped areas abutting building foundations shall
remain open and free of all paving except for sidewalks to building doors,
plazas, loading docks and stalls, and driveways to building doors and openings.
Alternate compliance may be accomplished through Site Plan Review.
c.   Ground Cover: Except where occupied by planting beds or mulched beds, all
foundation landscaping areas shall be sodded.
C.   Right-Of-Way Landscaping:
1.   Applicability: Where a parcel abuts a dedicated public right- of-way,
landscaping shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of
this section.
2.   Landscape Setback from Right-Of-Way: Minimum landscaped setbacks from the
right-of-way lines shall be as described in this subsection:
a.   From interstate highway and tollway right-of-way boundaries: Thirty feet 
(30’).
b.   From arterial streets: Thirty feet (30’).
c.   From collector roads and local roads: Twenty-five feet (25’).
3.   Graded and Sodded: The unpaved portion of public right-of-way abutting a
parcel shall be fine graded and sodded as set forth in the Village of Woodridge
subdivision control ordinance.
 
4.   Parkway Trees: Parkway trees shall be planted in accordance with
section 10-5- 10 of the Village Code.
D.   Compliance with Design Standards Under Alternate Circumstances:
1.   In the event that it can be demonstrated that existing vegetation meets
the intent of the landscape requirements of this title, existing vegetation may
be applied as landscape materials required by this section. Such vegetation
shall meet specifications for new plant materials and be located within the
area for which credit has been given. The applicant shall note on the landscape
plan the landscape materials that would have been required if the existing
vegetation did not exist. If any of the existing vegetation dies, the developer
shall replace it with the plant materials described in the note. Such
replacement plant material shall be guaranteed for a minimum of one eighteen
(18) months.(1) year.
2.   Whenever the existing use of any building, structure or lot shall be
increased, expanded or changed, landscaping, screening, tree preservation and
tree replacement shall be provided as required under this chapter.
3.   Innovative landscaping treatments are encouraged and shall be considered
as a positive attribute in connection with any request for a variation from the
requirements of this Chapter.
4.   Landscaping required under this Section may be substituted with native
plantings, rain gardens bioswales and biofilter strips providing equivalent or
greater screening impact. To the extent such materials are applied, the
guidelines defined in Section Best Management Practices shall be incorporated,
and their application approved as determined by Site Plan Review consideration.
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-6   : TRANSITIONAL LAND USE BUFFERING:
In addition to the general and specific design criteria outlined in Section 9-
8-5 above, all nonresidential and multiple-family development shall provide
perimeter landscaping as prescribed herein where a parking lot is not located
along the relevant lot lines or between the principal structure and such lot
lines. Sufficiency of proposed landscaping shall be considered as part of and
in keeping with the standards of the Site Plan Review consideration (Section 9-
6-6 : Site Plan Review).
A.   Nonresidential property abutting nonresidential property. When
nonresidential property abuts property zoned as nonresidential use, landscaping
shall be provided as follows:
1.   Shade trees. Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of not more
than seventy-five (75) feet apart along the abutting property line. Such trees
may be clustered or spaced linearly.
 
2.   Other planting materials. Other landscaping materials including berms,
ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live materials
may be provided at appropriate locations along the abutting property line.
3.   Ground cover. Except where occupied by planting beds, all perimeter
landscaping areas shall be sodded or seeded.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3524_9288x5624.jpg]
 
 
 
B.   Nonresidential property abutting residential property. When nonresidential
property abuts property zoned as residential use landscaping shall be provided
as follows:
1.   Screening. Solid screening to a minimum of six (6) feet in height at
installation, shall be provided along the length of the abutting property line
to the front building setback line of the abutting residential property. Such
screening shall consist of a continuous landscaped berm, solid wood or
decorative masonry fence, wall, or other comparable barrier. Continuous
landscaping, a minimum of three feet (3') in height at installation shall be
provided along that portion of the abutting property line from the front
building setback line to the front lot line of the abutting residential
property. Such landscaping shall consist of berms, if feasible, trees,
evergreen, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live planting materials.
 
2.   Shade trees. Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of not more
than seventy-five feet (75') apart along the abutting property line. Such trees
may be clustered or spaced linearly and shall not conflict with existing or
proposed utility locations.
3.   Other planting materials. Other landscaping materials including berms, if
feasible, ornamental trees, evergreen, shrubbery, hedges, and/or live planting
materials may be required as part of Site Plan Review at appropriate locations
along the abutting property line.
4.   Ground cover. Except where occupied by planting beds, all perimeter
landscaping areas shall be sodded or seeded.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3527_9288x5682.jpg]
 
 
 
C.   Multiple-family residential property abutting single-family
residential property. Where multiple-family residential property abuts property
zoned for single-unit residential property, required transition yards shall be
landscaped as follows:
1.   Screening. Continuous landscaping, a minimum of three (3) feet in height
at installation. Such landscaping shall consist of berms, if feasible, trees,
evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live planting materials.
 
2.   Shade trees. Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of not more
than seventy-five feet (75') apart along the abutting single-family residential
property line. Such trees may be clustered or spaced linearly and shall not
conflict with existing or proposed utility locations.
3.   Ground cover. Except where occupied by planting beds, all perimeter
landscaping areas shall be sodded or seeded.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3530_9249x5430.jpg]
 
 
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-7   : LANDSCAPE AND LANDSCAPE AREA MAINTENANCE:
The owner of the property, or subsequent owners, shall be jointly and severally
responsible for the maintenance, repair and replacement of all landscape
materials and barriers, including refuse disposal areas. All landscaping
materials shall be maintained in good condition so as to present a healthy,
neat and orderly appearance. Landscape materials shall be replaced in
compliance with the approved landscape plan when they die or are damaged to the
extent that their effectiveness is reduced. Landscape areas shall be kept free
of refuse and debris. Fences, walls and other barriers shall be maintained in
good repair. All screening and landscaping shall be protected from damage by
motor vehicles, pedestrians and snow. All landscaping materials shall be
located and trimmed as necessary so as to not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular
circulation or a public right of way. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
 
9-8-8   : SCREENING REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Screening of Refuse Disposal Areas Required:
1.   Screened Refuse Disposal Areas shall be required for the following types
of properties:
a.   All Multi-Unit Properties with four (4) or more dwelling units.
b.   All nonresidential properties.
2.   Screened Refuse Disposal Areas Required for the following types of refuse
disposal:
a.   Refuse disposal containers
b.   Recycling containers
c.   Grease storage containers
d.   Trash compactors
3.   Design and Installation of Refuse Disposal: Refuse disposal areas shall be
screened, designed, and constructed in keeping with the following:
a.   Refuse disposal areas shall be screened on a minimum of three (3) sides
by a solid commercial grade wood fence, masonry wall or equivalent material to
a height of not less than six feet (6') and no greater than seven feet (7')
in height.
b.   The enclosure shall not be used for the outside storage of any other
materials or equipment.
c.   All refuse disposal areas shall be located on an impervious surface.
d.   A refuse disposal area shall be located out of view from public streets
and adjacent properties, to the greatest extent possible.
e.   A refuse disposal area shall not be located in any front or corner
side yard.
f.   The open side of said enclosure shall be oriented so that it does not face
towards an abutting property or street, to the greatest extent possible.
g.   The trash enclosure shall be located so as not to interfere with safe
travel by vehicles, bicycles or pedestrians.
h.   The owner of the property upon which the trash enclosure and refuse
collection area is located shall be responsible for its maintenance.
 
i.   An inset drawing of the location, design, and elevation details of the
enclosure shall be depicted on the landscaping plan.
B.   Rooftop Screening Required: All heating, air conditioning, ventilating,
transmission devices or other mechanical equipment located on the roof of any
structure or building, except those located on single-family homes, shall be
screened from adjacent streets and properties by a parapet wall or other method
approved by the Zoning Officer. The design, construction materials and color of
such screening shall be subject to the approval of the Zoning Officer who shall
base their approval on the following criteria:
1.   The design shall provide the screening effect required by this section.
2.   The screening shall be constructed of materials that complement’s
the materials used in the construction of the principal building or structure
and shall consist of one (1) or more of the following:
a.   Brick;
b.   Aluminum, steel, or other approved metal;
c.   Wood;
d.   Fiberglass.
3.   The color shall match or complement the color of the principal building or
structure.
C.   Screening Requirements for All Private Generators:
1.   Generators that are less than four feet (4') in all dimensions are not
required to be screened.
2.   Generators that are four feet (4') or greater in any dimension shall be
screened in accordance with the following:
a.   Generators and their cabinets that are four (4’) to six feet (6') in
height shall be enclosed within a metal cabinet, masonry wall or solid fence.
Fences shall be constructed of commercial grade wood or comparable materials.
b.   Any generator greater than six feet (6') in height shall be completely
enclosed within a metal cabinet or within a completely enclosed accessory
building. Metal cabinets shall have an even, finished appearance free of
projections and protrusions. The design, color and materials of completely
enclosed accessory buildings shall match those of the principal structure.
3.   The design, construction materials and color of the screening referred to
in Subsection 9-8-7 C.2. Screening Requirements for All Private Generators,
shall be
 
subject to the approval of the Zoning Officer, who shall base their approval on
the following:
a.   The design shall provide the screening effect required by this section to
mitigate impact on adjacent properties. The screening shall be constructed of
materials which shall complement the materials used in the construction of the
principal building or structure.
b.   The color of the required screening shall match the color of the principal
building or shall be selected to blend into the surroundings.
4.   Landscaping shall be provided in addition to the required screening. Said
landscaping shall consist, at a minimum, of large shrubs planted three feet
(3') apart around the perimeter of the generator and its screening fence, wall
or cabinet. For those generators and required screening that exceed six feet
(6') in height, the required landscaping shall consist of tall evergreen shrubs
(such as arborvitae) spaced four feet (4') apart or evergreen trees that are a
minimum of eight feet (8') in height and spaced eight feet (8') apart.
5.   If it is not possible to meet all of the screening and landscaping
regulations set forth in this subsection, the Zoning Administrator, at his or
her discretion, may approve an alternate plan.
D.   Screening Requirements for Aboveground Service Facilities and Utilities:
1.   Aboveground Service Facilities that are less than four feet (4') in all
dimensions are not required to be screened.
2.   Aboveground Service Facilities, Utilities and accessory structures that
are four feet (4') or greater in any dimension shall be screened in accordance
with the following provisions:
a.   Aboveground service facilities, utilities, and accessory structures that
are less than four feet (4') in height, but exceed four feet (4’) in some other
direction, shall be screened with landscaping. Said landscaping shall consist,
at a minimum, of tall shrubs planted three feet (3') apart around the perimeter
of the aboveground service facility and accessory structure.
b.   Aboveground service facilities, utilities, and accessory structures that
are four feet (4') in height up to and including six feet (6') in height shall
be screened with a masonry wall or solid fence of the same height. Fences shall
be constructed of commercial grade wood, commercial grade sheet metal or
comparable materials as approved by the director of   community development.
Landscaping shall be provided in addition to the required screening. Said
landscaping shall consist, at a minimum, of tall
 
shrubs planted three feet (3') apart around the perimeter of the aboveground
service facility or accessory structure and its screening wall or fence.
3.   Aboveground service facilities and accessory structures that exceed six
feet (6') in height shall be screened with a six foot (6') high masonry wall or
solid fence. Fences shall be constructed of commercial grade wood, commercial
grade sheet metal or comparable materials as approved by the director of
community development. Landscaping shall be provided in addition to the
required screening. Said landscaping shall consist of tall evergreen shrubs
that are a minimum of six feet (6') in height and spaced four feet (4') apart,
or evergreen trees that are a minimum of eight feet (8') in height and spaced
eight feet (8') apart.
4.   As requested by and necessary to comply with surveillance provisions of
the United States Department of Homeland Security, the requirements of this
section 9-8-8
-D: Screening Requirements for Aboveground Service Facilities and Utilities,
may be waived by the Zoning Officer upon finding that such request is otherwise
in support of the health, safety and welfare, of the Village of Woodridge and
its residents.
5.   If the screening requirements of this section 9-8-8 -D: Screening
Requirements for Aboveground Service Facilities and Utilities cannot be
accommodated by an applicant, the Zoning Officer may authorize an alternative
plan for screening upon finding that such alternative plan meets the intent of
this section and mitigates, to the greatest extent possible, potential adverse
impacts on surrounding properties.
E.   Screening of Loading Docks, Service Yards, and Exterior Work or Storage
Areas, Loading docks, service yards, and exterior work or storage areas shall
be screened from view from public rights-of-way and adjacent lots.
1.   The screening shall consist of solid material screening or full screening
landscaping, having a minimum height of at least six (6’) feet.
2.   When solid material screening is provided, intermittent or foundation
landscaping shall be provided, as approved by the Zoning Administrator to
mitigate visual impacts of the solid material screen.
F.   Screening of Cargo Container Facilities: In addition to all other related
requirements of the Village code, Cargo Container Facilities in all zoning
districts shall be subject to the following:
1.   Adjacent to Industrial Districts: Notwithstanding any provision contained
in this title to the contrary, interior side and rear landscape yards adjacent
to industrial districts shall provide a minimum ten feet (10') for interior
side and rear yard and shall contain each of the following
screening components:
 
a.   Landscaping shall be provided in accordance with subsection 9-8-6 -A of
this section.
b.   A continuous berm, a commercial grade sightproof board fence or a
commercial grade masonry wall shall be provided along the length of the
interior side or rear lot line.
c.   Said berm, fence or wall shall be a minimum of six feet (6') in height.
The finished side of the fence or wall shall be oriented toward the abutting
property. If a fence or wall is used as a screen, a five foot (5') wide
planting bed with landscaping material at least three feet (3') high shall be
located adjacent to the finished side of the fence or wall.
d.   In lieu of the fence or wall, a screen planting area of a minimum twenty
feet (20') in width, containing a minimum of two (2) rows of evergreen trees,
may be installed. The evergreen trees shall be at least eight feet (8') tall
when planted. The rows shall be staggered, with a maximum of eight feet (8')
between rows, and shall be centered within the screen planting area. The
evergreen trees shall be spaced a maximum of ten feet (10') apart on center.
However, as may be determined through the Site Plan Review (Section 9-6-6 :
Site Plan Review) process, trees may be required to be spaced closer to ensure
that narrower growing varieties will provide an effective screen. Should the
buffer area contain a continuous berm at least three feet (3') in height, with
a side slope not exceeding a ratio of three to one (3:1), the minimum height of
the required evergreen trees shall be six feet (6') when planted. The final
design of the screen planting area and the landscaping within it shall be
approved through the Site Plan Review process.
2.   Adjacent to Nonindustrial Districts and Public Rights of Way:
Notwithstanding any provision contained in this title to the contrary, a
landscape yard with a minimum width of one hundred feet (100') shall be
provided adjacent to nonindustrial districts and public rights of way and shall
contain each of the following screening components:
a.   Berm: A berm with a minimum height of fifteen feet (15'). The berm shall
be continuous throughout the landscape setback except it may be interrupted to
the extent necessary to allow for vehicular access.
b.   Fence or Wall: A commercial grade sightproof board fence or commercial
grade masonry wall with a minimum height of six feet (6'). The fence or wall
shall be continuous throughout the landscape setback except it may be
interrupted to the extent necessary to allow for vehicular access, and it shall
be placed on the highest part of the berm to maximize its screening effect.
 
c.   Landscaping: A minimum of three (3) shade trees, seven (7) evergreen
trees, four (4) ornamental trees, and thirty (30) tall shrubs shall be planted
for every one hundred (100) linear feet of landscape setback. Tall shrubs
provided in accordance with this provision shall have a minimum installed
height of three feet (3'). The landscaping shall be placed on the berm between
the fence or wall and the public right of way or nonresidential district. (Ord.
2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-9   : PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING:
All parking lots designed for twenty (20) or more parking spaces, as specified
in Chapter 7 of this title, shall provide landscaping in accordance with the
provisions of this section. The design, planting materials, and safe use of
parking lot landscape designs shall be approved through consideration of the
Site Plan Review process (Section 9-6-6 : Site Plan Review).
A.   General Parking Lot Landscaping:
1.   The landscaping shall include, to the extent necessary, ground cover,
shrubs, hedges, ornamental trees and grasses, perennials, decorative walls,
or fencing.
2.   All landscaping shall be permanently maintained in good condition,
satisfactory to the Village, with at least the same quality and quantity of
landscaping as initially approved. In the event that landscaping should die,
the property owner shall replace landscaping in a timely fashion, taking into
consideration the season of the year.
3.   At the time of installation, landscaped materials shall be of the
following sizes:
    a.   Two and a half inches (2.5") DBH for deciduous shade trees.
    b.   Eight feet (8') tall for evergreen trees and ornamental trees.
    c. Twenty-four inch (24") shrubs.
a.   Gallon-sized perennials.All proposed landscape material must be consistent
with the requirments listed in section 9-8-5-B-1.
B.   Interior Parking Lot Landscaping:
1.   Required Landscaping Percentage:
a.   At least seven and one-half percent (7.5%) of the parking area shall be
provided as interior landscaped area.
b.   The parking area for the purposes of this section includes that portion of
a property used for the parking of vehicle and the driveways and access points
associated with such parking.
 
c.   The required interior landscaping may include areas dedicated to
tree planting islands, and those portions of the lot that are not dedicated to
perimeter landscaping such as curbs, parking spaces and driveways.
2.   Interior Parking Lot Design Standards:
a.   Landscaping shall be dispersed throughout the parking area.
b.   A portion of the required landscaping may be located so as to provide
screening of mechanical equipment or loading areas.
c.   A landscaped island with at least one tree (as indicated in subsection
e below) shall be required at the end of all parking rows, and shall be equal
to one hundred and eighty square feet for a single row of parking or three
hundred and sixty square feet for a double row of parking.
d.   A landscaped island with at least one tree shall be installed and
maintained a minimum every twenty parking spaces in order to avoid large
expanses of landscaped areas within the parking lot. Such landscape islands
shall be equal to one hundred and eighty square feet for a single row of
parking or three hundred and sixty square feet for a double row of parking.
e.   A minimum of one (1) shade tree must be provided for every landscaped
island or landscaped area. In addition to the required shade trees, a minimum
of seventy-five percenty (75%) of every parking lot island or landscaped area
must be planted in live groundcover, shrubs, perennials, or ornamental grasses.
f.   In no case can there be less than one (1) tree for every three thousand
(3,000) square feet of parking area as defined in this section.
g.   No hedge, wall or berm shall exceed three (3) feet in height within ten
(10) feet of any driveway opening.
h.   Fire hydrants in parking lots shall be located within landscape islands as
determined necessary through the Site Plan Review process.
C.   Required Perimeter Parking Lot Landscaping:
1.   Street Front Landscaping:
a.   Frontage along the entirety of any parking area adjacent to any street
shall be landscaped with a minimum five (5)-foot wide, landscaped area with a
continuous one hundred percent (100%) screening of three feet (3') high shrubs
or hedges provided between the property line and parking area.
 
b.   Plantings shall be no less than three feet (3') high within one eighteen 
(18) months(1) year of planting and shall be maintained as such.
c.   Curbing or parking blocks shall be installed to provide a two foot (2’)
overhang that prevents parking of cars from damaging landscaping.
2.   When a parking lot abuts a property zoned or used for residential use,
landscaping a minimum of six feet (6') in height at installation and maintained
at such height shall be provided along that portion of the parking lot abutting
the residential property.
a.   Plant materials, when used as a screen, shall consist of dense evergreen
plants and any mixture as approved through the Site Plan Review process, in
order to adequately shield adjacent residences from lights, noises, or other
potential adverse impacts.
b.   Shade trees. Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of not more
than forty feet (40') apart along that portion of the parking lot abutting the
residential property. Such trees may be clustered or spaced linearly as
determined appropriate through the Site Plan Review process.
c.   Fencing: Where landscaping is unlikely to survive or provide adequate
screening, a six foot (6’) high fence may be approved as part of the Site Plan
Review process or in the case of a Special Use or Planned Development, as
approved by the Village Board upon recommendation from the Plan Commission.
Such fence shall be constructed of wood, composite or other material, as
determined by the Village approval process.
3.   Ground cover. Except where occupied by planting beds, all yard perimeter
landscaping areas shall be sodded or seeded.
4.   Existing vegetation that meets, in whole or in part, the purposes of
perimeter landscaping above may be applied toward requirements. (Ord. 2024-
6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-10    : BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
Best Management Practices (BMPs), including those described in this Section,
are encouraged in developments through appropriate application of landscape
design, site construction and landscape maintenance practices.
A.   Applicability: Best Management Practices shall be incorporated into the
landscape design for all newly constructed parking lots located in the B-1, B-
2, B-3, ORI, M1, and RBC Districts.
B.   Sustainable Development Standards: Green design considers the environment
and site during design, construction, operations and maintenance. In
evaluating site
 
plans with BMPs in the Site Plan Review process (Section 9-6-6 : Site Plan
Review), the Village shall consider all relevant engineering and design
standards as well as the standards of this Section. BMPs shall be evaluated in
regard to sustainable building design, site planning, streetscape/landscape
design and infrastructure engineering. The following considerations should be
included in site and building design and construction when incorporating BMPs:
1.   Optimize building orientation for heat gain, solar shading, daylighting
and natural ventilation.
2.   Design landscape, hardscape and building roofs to create comfortable
micro- climates and reduce heat island effects.
3.   Select native landscape materials and reuse rainwater and graywater where
feasible and allowed by Code to reduce or eliminate the need for potable water
in the irrigation of landscape.
4.   Increase water efficiency through the use of high-efficiency systems
and fixtures or through rainwater and graywater reuse as allowed by Code to
decrease use of the Village’s water supply and wastewater system.
5.   Design all sites and buildings to be "transit-supportive" to facilitate
access to existing and future transit services.
6.   Use sustainable, rapidly renewable or recycled building materials.
7.   Use building materials manufactured within the region.
8.   Design and select lighting and equipment for efficient energy use.
9.   Minimize off-site light pollution.
10.   Create healthy, comfortable indoor environments through increased natural
lighting, control of thermal systems, reduced VOCs (volatile organic compounds)
and improved indoor air-quality and ventilation.
11.   Maximize on-site stormwater management through landscaping and permeable
pavement as well as shared facilities.
12.   Maintain or reduce the peak stormwater discharge rate and quantity.
13.   Enact plans to control erosion, sedimentation and dust
during construction.
14.   Conduct commissioning of building energy systems to ensure desired
performance.
 
15.   Include on-site renewable energy sources (such as solar, wind,
geothermal) where feasible.
16.   Reduce or eliminate heating, ventilation, air conditioning and
refrigeration equipment that emits compounds that contribute to ozone depletion
and climate change.
17.   Provide for an easily accessible, dedicated area for the collection and
storage of materials for recycling.
18.   Incorporate universal design into building plans where feasible.
19.      C. Permeable Pavement and Pavers: Permeable pavement and pavers are an
alternative method of hard surface that allows stormwater runoff to filter
through voids material. The use of this porous material can help improve the
natural cleaning and infiltration of water, reducing the amount of stormwater
flowing into streets and down storm drains. Use of this material may be allowed
in designated drive or path areas.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3533_7410x5445.jpg]
 
 
 
D20. Bioswales or Retention Ponds: Bioswales and Retention ponds are vegetated
landscaped depressions that capture, treat, and slow down stormwater runoff.
They provide opportunities to treat stormwater on-site and are a more
aesthetically pleasing environment than the typical required concrete
stormwater fixtures.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3536_6150x8205.jpg]
 
 
 
E21. Parking Lot Drainage: Stormwater drainage is an integral component in the
design of parking lots. Stormwater may be infiltrated into the parking lot
planting areas and then drained to a specified area. This approach can clean,
detail, and direct stormwater.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3539_7605x5835.jpg]
 
 
 
F22.   Green Roofs: Green roofs incorporate plants into the roofing system to
create pervious surface areas and capture stormwater runoff. These systems can
serve as short term stormwater management to reduce, delay, and clean
stormwater runoff from a site. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
 
 
 
 
 
 
ord 2025-30
9-6-5   : AMENDMENTS, SPECIAL USE, AND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
C.   Planned Unit Developments.
1.   Authority. The Village Board may,
in accordance with the procedures and standards set out in this section, and by
ordinance duly adopted, grant special use permits
authorizing the development of planned developments, but only in the districts where such
developments are listed as an authorized special use.
2.   Purpose. Planned developments are included in this title as a distinct
category of special use.
As such, they are authorized for the same general purposes as all other special
uses. The planned development is intended to allow the relaxation of otherwise applicable
substantive requirements of this title based upon procedural protections
providing for detailed review of individual proposals for signi?cant
developments. This special regulatory
approach is included in this title in recognition of the fact that traditional regulations, which
may be useful in protecting the character of substantially developed and stable areas, may
impose inappropriate regulations and rigidities upon the development or redevelopment of
parcels or areas that lend themselves to an individual, planned approach.
Through the ?exibility of the planned development technique, the village seeks
to achieve the following speci?c objectives:
a.   Creation of a more desirable environment than would be possible through strict
application of other village land use regulations.
b.   Promotion of a creative approach to the use of land and related physical facilities
resulting in better design and development, including aesthetic amenities.
c.   Preservation and enhancement of desirable site characteristics such as natural
topography,
vegetation, and geologic features, and the prevention of soil erosion.
d.   Combination and coordination of architectural styles, building forms, and building
relationships.
e.   Provision for the preservation and bene?cial use of open space.
f.   An increase in the amount of open space over that which would result from the
application of conventional subdivision and zoning regulations.
g.   Encouragement of land uses that promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare.
3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Planned Development Approval. An application for
special use for a planned development may be ?led by the owner of, or any
person having a contractual interest in, the subject property.
 
4.   Procedure.
a.   Informal Review: To initiate the planned development process for
developments greater than ?ve (5) acres, the owner or developer will meet with
village staff for an informal
review of the potential development, its compliance with the village’s
Comprehensive Plan and development ordinances, appropriateness for the site and
surrounding areas, the approval process, and related matters.
The owner or developer of proposed planned developments of ?ve acres or less
may request an optional informal review. This informal review does not require
formal application, fee, or ?ling of a planned development plan. To make the
discussion
productive, prospective applicants are advised to provide information describing the land
use, property size, and character of the anticipated development.
b.   Village Board Pre-Application Review: Prior to the applicant ?ling for
planned development consideration for developments greater than ?ve (5) acres,
a pre-application review meeting shall be held with the Village Board as an
agenda item of a regularly scheduled meeting. The owner or developer of
proposed planned developments of ?ve (5) acres or less may request an optional
pre-application review. This meeting is to bene?t the applicant and provide
insights and understanding as to the Village Board’s overall perspective on how
the proposed planned development adheres to the village’s Comprehensive Plan,
what information will be useful to the Village Board as part of the formal
approval process, and what issues the Village Board notes merit consideration
during the process. This information will allow the applicant to prepare
necessary and appropriately detailed information for the development pre-
application plan approval. The
following materials shall be provided to the village prior to scheduling and conducting the
Village Board pre-application review,
as well as other materials that may be required by the Zoning Officer as needed
to provide useful background for the Village Board:
(1)   General Site Information:
 Data regarding site conditions, drainage, land and soil
characteristics, available community facilities and utilities, existing covenants, and other
related information.
(2)   Sketch Plan: A scaled drawing in sketch form showing the proposed
location and
extent of the land uses, major streets, lots, environmental areas, stormwater management
facilities, and other features as needed to convey the proposed form of development.
(3)   Property Survey:
 A property survey and description of the site proposed for
development.
(4)   Proof of Ownership or Interest:
 Evidence of property ownership or control.
 
(5)   Any views expressed in the course of the Village Board’s pre-
application review is
only advisory and only the individual views of the member expressing them. Nothing said or
done in the course of the pre-application review will be deemed to create, or
to prejudice, any rights of the applicant or to obligate the Plan Commission,
or any member of it, to recommend approval or denial of any formal application
following full consideration as required by this chapter.
c.   Technical Review: A formal meeting to review proposed planned developments
greater than ?ve acres will be held with village staff for preliminary
consideration of the proposed development in light of the requirements of this
title and the village code. The owner or developer of proposed planned
developments of ?ve (5) acres or less may request an optional technical review.
Materials required prior to scheduling and conducting the technical review,
shall be the same as the Plan Commission pre-application review, as well as
other materials that may be required by the Zoning Officer as needed to provide
useful background for the review team.
d.   Development Preliminary Plan:
(1)   Purpose.
The development preliminary plan is intended to provide the applicant an
opportunity to submit a plan showing the basic scope, character, and nature of
the entire proposed planned development without incurring undue cost. The
development
preliminary plan is the basis on which the required public hearing is held, thus permitting
public consideration of the proposal at the earliest possible stage. In order to permit the
village and the applicant to proceed with some assurance,
approval of the development preliminary plan binds the applicant and the
village with respect to the following basic elements of development:
(a)   Categories of uses to be permitted;
(b)   General location of residential and nonresidential land uses;
(c)   Overall maximum density of residential uses and intensity of nonresidential
uses;
(d)   General architectural style of the proposed development;
(e)   General location and extent of public and private open space, including
recreational amenities;
(f)   General location of vehicular and pedestrian circulation systems;
(g)   Staging of development; and
 
(h)   Nature, scope, and extent of public dedications, improvements, or
contributions to be provided by the applicant.
(2)   Application. Subsequent to the technical review,
as set forth in subsection 9-6-
5 C.4.c. of this chapter, but in no event more than six (6) months thereafter,
a formal application for approval of a development preliminary plan shall be
?led on applications as established by subsection 9-6-2 C, and subsections 9-6-
2 C.6.j.
(3)   Public Hearing. The Zoning Officer will provide notice and the Plan
Commission
will conduct a public hearing in accordance with subsection 9-6-2  E. of this
chapter.
(4)   Action by Plan Commission. Within thirty-?ve (35) days following the
conclusion of the public hearing, the Plan Commission will transmit to the
Village Board its recommendation, in the form speci?ed by subsection 9-6-
1 C.2.d. of this chapter that the development preliminary plan either be
approved, be approved subject to modi?cations, or not be approved. The failure
of the Plan Commission to act within thirty-?ve (35) days, or such further time
to which the applicant may agree, shall be deemed a recommendation
for the approval of the development preliminary plan as submitted.
(5)   Action by Village Board. Within thirty-?ve (35) days following the
receipt of the recommendation of the Plan Commission, or its failure to act as
above provided, the
Village Board will either deny the application for approval of the development preliminary
plan; remand it back to the Plan Commission for further consideration of
speci?ed matter; or shall, by resolution duly adopted, approve the development
preliminary plan, with or without modi?cations and conditions to be accepted by
the applicant as a condition of such approval, and refer the matter to the Plan
Commission for processing of the ?nal plan. The failure of the Village Board to
act within thirty-?ve (35) days, or such further time to
which the applicant may agree,
shall be deemed to be a decision denying approval of the development
preliminary plan.
(6)   Coordination with Subdivision Regulations Ordinance. When a subdivision
of land subject to the provisions of title 10 of the village code is proposed
in connection with a
planned development, review of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision shall be
carried out simultaneously with review of the development preliminary plan.
(7)   Optional Submission of Final Plan. The applicant may, at their option,
submit a ?nal plan for the proposed planned development pursuant to the
requirements of subsection 9-6-5 C.4.e. of this chapter simultaneously with the
submission of the development preliminary plan. In such case,
the applicant will comply with all provisions of
this code applicable to submission of the development preliminary plan and to submission
of the ?nal plan. The Plan Commission and the Village Board will consider the development
 
preliminary plan and ?nal plan simultaneously and grant or deny ?nal plan
approval in
accordance with the provisions of subsection 9-6-5  C.4.e. of this chapter.
e.   Final Plan.
(1)   Purpose. The ?nal plan is intended to particularize, re?ne, and implement
the
development preliminary plan and to serve as a complete, thorough, and permanent public
record of the planned development and the manner in which it is to be developed.
(2)   Application. Subsequent to approval of the development preliminary plan, but in
no event later than twelve (12)-
months after approval of the development preliminary plan, the applicant shall
?le an application for ?nal plan approval in accordance with the requirements
of subsection 9-6-2 C.6.k. of this title. The application shall re?ne,
implement, and be in substantial conformity with the approved development
preliminary plan.
(3)   Public Meeting. The Zoning Officer will provide notice and the Plan
Commission
will conduct a public meeting in accordance with subsection 9-6-2  E.2.
(4)   Coordination with Subdivision Ordinance. When a subdivision of land
subject to
title 10 of the village code is proposed in connection with a planned development, review of
the ?nal plat of the proposed subdivision shall be carried out simultaneously with review of
the ?nal plan.
(5)   Phasing of Final Plan Approval. An application for ?nal plan approval may
include the entire area included in the approved development preliminary plan
or one or more phases, stages, or units thereof; provided, however, that the
following matters must be addressed and provide in the ?rst phase, stage,
or unit submitted for ?nal plan approval:
(a)   All public improvements required or proposed for the entire area included in the
approved development preliminary plan.
(b)   All open space required or proposed for the entire area included in the approved
development preliminary plan.
(c)   All land dedications required or proposed for the entire area included in the
approved development preliminary plan.
(d)   The payment of all fees required by this title and other titles of the village
code.
(6)   Action by Plan Commission.
(a)   Evaluation. Within sixty (60) days following the ?ling of an application
for approval of a ?nal plan, the Plan Commission will with such aid and advice
of such village
 
staff and consultants as may be appropriate, review and act on the plan. This
review will consider:
i.   Whether the ?nal plan is in substantial conformity with the approved
development preliminary plan;
ii.   The merit or lack of merit of any departure of the ?nal plan from substantial
conformity with the approved development preliminary plan;
iii.   Whether the ?nal plan complies with any and all conditions imposed by the
approval of the development preliminary plan; and
iv.   Whether the ?nal plan complies with the provisions of this title and all other
applicable federal, state, and village codes, ordinances, and regulations.
(b)   Approval Based on Substantial Conformity. If the Plan Commission ?nds
substantial conformity between the ?nal plan and the approved development
preliminary
plan and further ?nds the ?nal plan to be in all other respects complete and in compliance
with any and all conditions imposed by approval of the development preliminary plan and
with the provisions of this title and all other applicable federal, state,
and village codes, ordinances, and regulations, it shall transmit the plan to
the Village Board with its
recommendation, in the form speci?ed in subsection 9-6-1 C.2.d. of this
chapter, that the Village Board approve the ?nal plan, with or without
modi?cations and conditions to be
accepted by the applicant as a condition of approval.
(c)   Recommendation of Denial. In any case where the Plan Commission ?nds that
the ?nal plan is not in substantial conformity with the approved development
preliminary
plan and does not merit approval, or in any case where it requires modi?cations of a plan
that are not accepted by the applicant, the Plan Commission will transmit the plan to the
Village Board together with its recommendation and speci?c reasons in support
of its recommendation, in the form speci?ed in subsection 9-6-1 C.2.d. of this
chapter, that the ?nal plan not be approved.
(d)   Failure to Act. The failure of the Plan Commission to act within the sixty 
(60)-day period speci?ed in subsection 9-6-5 C.4.e(6)(a) of this section, or
such further time to which the applicant may agree,
will be deemed to be a recommendation to the Village
Board to approve the ?nal plan as submitted.
(7)   Action by Village Board. Within sixty (60) days following the receipt of
the recommendation of the Plan
Commission, or its failure to act as above provided, the Village Board shall
take action in accordance with the following paragraphs:
 
(a)   Approval Based on Substantial Conformity. If the Plan Commission has
recommended approval of a ?nal plan pursuant to subsection 9-6-5 C.4.e.(6)(b)
of this chapter, the Village Board will, unless it speci?cally rejects one (1)
or more of the ?ndings of the Plan Commission on the basis of expressly stated
reasons, approve the ?nal plan by a duly adopted ordinance.
(b)   Approval Notwithstanding Plan Commission Recommendation of Denial. If the
Plan Commission has recommended denial of a ?nal plan pursuant to subsection 9-
6-
5 C.4.e.(6)(c) of this chapter, the Village Board may, if it ?nds that the ?nal
plan merits
approval and otherwise conforms to the requirements of this title, approve the ?nal plan by
a duly adopted ordinance.
(c)   Referral Back to Planning and Zoning Commission. In any case other than
that speci?ed in subsection 9-6-5 C.4.e.(6)
(c), the Village Board may refer the ?nal plan back to the Plan
Commission for further consideration of speci?ed matters.
(d)   Conditions on Final Plan Approval. The approval of any ?nal plan may, in
addition, be granted by the Village Board, with or without modi?cations and conditions to
be accepted by the applicant as a condition of approval.
(e)   Failure to Act. The failure of the Village Board to act within sixty
(60)-days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, will be
deemed to be a decision denying ?nal plan approval.
(8)   Recording of Final Plan. When a ?nal plan is approved, the village clerk
will cause the ?nal plan, or the portions thereof as are appropriate, to be
recorded with the County
Recorder of Deeds where the property is situated, at the applicant’s expense.
(9)   Limitation on Final Plan
Approval. Construction must commence in accordance with the approved ?nal plan
within one year after the ?nal plan approval, or within such
shorter time as may be established by the approved development schedule. Failure to
commence construction within this period will, unless an extension of time has
been granted by the Village Board pursuant to subsection 9-6-1 B.12. of this
chapter, automatically render void the ?nal plan approval and all approvals of
the planned
development and all permits based on such approvals, and the Village Board will, without
further direction, initiate an appropriate application to revoke the special use permit for all
portions of the planned development that have not yet been completed. The special use
permit will be revoked by ordinance duly adopted by the Village Board, and the village clerk
will cause the ordinance, or the portions thereof as are appropriate, to be recorded with the
in the County Recorder of Deeds where the property is situated, at the expense of the
owner or operator of the uses or lots in question.
 
(10)   Building and Other Permits. Upon ?nal plan approval, but not before,
appropriate officials of the village may, upon proper application by the
applicant, issue
building and other permits to the applicant for the development, construction, and other
work in the area encompassed by the approved ?nal plan; provided however,
that no permit will be issued unless the appropriate official is ?rst satis?ed
that the requirements of any codes, ordinances, rule, or regulation of the
village, in addition to this title, that are applicable to the permit sought
have been satis?ed. Building permits may, however, be withheld at the
discretion of the Village Board or appropriate village official at any time it
is
determined that the development of the planned development is not proceeding in strict
compliance with the approved ?nal plan.
5.   Standards for Planned Developments.
a.   Special Use Permit Standards. No special use permit for a planned development
will be recommended or granted pursuant to this section unless the applicant establishes
that the proposed planned development will meet each of the standards made applicable
to special uses pursuant to subsection 9-6-5 B.5.
b.   Additional Standards for All Planned Developments. No special use permit for a
planned development will be recommended or granted unless the applicant establishes
that the proposed planned development will meet each of the following
additional standards:
(1)   Uni?ed Ownership Required. The entire property proposed for planned
development treatment is in single ownership or under uni?ed control to ensure that the
entire property will be developed as a uni?ed whole. All owners of the property
will be included as joint applicants on all applications and all approvals will
bind all owners. The
violation of any owner as to any tract will be deemed a violation as to all owners and all
tracts.
(2)   Minimum Area. Unless a speci?c standard is set, the applicant will have
the
burden of establishing that the property is of sufficient size and shape to be planned and
developed as a uni?ed whole capable of meeting the objectives for which planned
developments may be established pursuant to this section.
(3)   Covenants and Restrictions to be Enforceable by Village. All covenants, deed
restrictions, easements, and similar restrictions to be recorded in connection with the
planned development will provide that they may not be modi?ed, removed, or
released without the express
consent of the Village Board and that they may be enforced by the
village as well as by future landowners within the proposed planned development.
 
(4)   Public Open Space and Contributions. Whenever the comprehensive plan or
official map indicates that development of a planned development will create a
need for
land for public purposes of the village within the proposed planned development, the
Village Board may require that such area be designated and to the extent such need is
speci?cally and uniquely attributable to the proposed planned development,
dedicated to the village for such use. In addition, the Village Board may
require evidence that all
requirements of village ordinances pertaining to the dedication of land or the contribution
of cash in connection with subdivisions or developments of land have been met
as respects the proposed planned development.
(5)   Common Open Space.
(a)   Amount, Location, and Use.
The failure of a planned development to provide common open space shall be
considered to be an indication that it has not satis?ed the objectives for
which planned developments may be approved pursuant to this section. When
common open space is provided in a planned development, the amount and location
of open space will be consistent with its intended function as set forth in the
application and planned development plans. No open space will be used for the
construction of any structure or improvement except such structures and improvements
as may be approved in the ?nal plan as appropriate to the intended leisure and recreational
uses for which the open space is intended.
(b)   Preservation. Adequate safeguards,
including recorded covenants or dedication of development rights, will be
provided to prevent the subsequent use of common open space for any use,
structure, improvement, or development other than that shown on the approved
?nal plan. The restrictions must be permanent and not for a given period of
years, and must run with the land.
(c)   Ownership and Maintenance. The ?nal plan will include such provisions for
the ownership and maintenance of open space and improvements as are reasonably
necessary to ensure their continuity, care, conservation, maintenance, and
operation in
accordance with predetermined standards and to ensure that remedial measures will be
available to the village if such open space or improvements are permitted to deteriorate or
are not maintained in a condition consistent with the best interests of the
planned development or the village.
(d)   Property Owners’ Association. When the requirements of subsection 9-6-
5 C.5.b.(5)(c) of this chapter are to be satis?ed by the ownership or
maintenance of such
open space or improvements by a property owners’ association, the association must meet
each of the following standards:
 
i.   The by-
laws and rules of the association and all declarations, covenants, and
restrictions to be recorded must be approved as part of the ?nal plan prior to
becoming
effective. Each document will provide that it will not be amended in any manner that would
result in it being in violation of the requirements of this subparagraph.
ii.   The association must be established and all covenants and restrictions
recorded prior to the sale of any property within the area of the planned development
designated to have the exclusive use of the proposed open space or improvements.
iii.   The association must be responsible for casualty and liability insurance, taxes,
and the maintenance of the open space and improvements to be deeded to it.
iv.   Membership in the association must be mandatory for each property owner,
and any successive owner, having a right to the use or enjoyment of such open
space or improvements.
v.   Every property having a right to the use of enjoyment of such open space
or improvements must pay its pro rata
share of the cost of the association by means of an
assessment to be levied by the association that meets the requirements for becoming a
lien on the property in accordance with statutes of the State of Illinois.
vi.   The association must have the right to adjust the assessment to meet
changed needs. The membership vote required to authorize such lean shall not be
?xed at more than ?fty-one percent (51%) of the members voting on the issue.
vii.   The Village must be given the right to enforce the covenants.
viii.   The Village must be given the right, after ten (10) days’ written
notice to the association, to perform any maintenance or repair work that the
association has neglected to perform, to assess the membership for such work
and to have a lien against the property
of any member failing to pay such assessment. For this purpose alone, the Village will have
all the rights and powers of the association and its governing body under the agreements
and declarations creating the association.
ix.   The association may not be dissolved without notice to the zoning official and
consent of the Village Board.
(6)   Landscaping and Perimeter Treatment. Any area of a planned development not
used for structures or circulation elements shall be landscaped or otherwise
improved.
The perimeter of the planned development shall be treated so as to ensure compatibility
with surrounding uses by means such as provision of compatible uses and
structures; setbacks; screening; or natural or manmade buffers. Every planned
development shall
provide a perimeter landscaped open space along each of its boundaries; each such open
 
space shall have a minimum depth equal to the minimum applicable yard required in the
district in which it is located.
(7)   Private Streets. Private streets may be permitted in a planned development
provided that:
(a)   The streets are treated as public streets and rights of way for purposes of all
setbacks, yards, and calculations under this title;
(b)   Said streets shall be owned and maintained by a property owners’ association
meeting the requirements set forth in subsection 9-6-5 C.5.b.(5)
(d) of this chapter; and
(c)   A covenant shall be recorded against the property acknowledging that the
village will at no time be under any obligation to provide maintenance for or accept
dedication of the streets.
(8)   Utilities. All utility lines shall be installed underground.
(9)   Additional Standards for Speci?c Planned Developments. Where the district
regulations authorizing any planned development use in a particular district
impose
additional standards to be met by a planned development in that district, a special use
permit for such development will not be recommended or granted unless the applicant
establishes compliance with these additional standards.
6.   Conditions on Planned Development Approvals. The approval of either a
development preliminary plan or a ?nal plan may be conditioned on such matters
as the approving body may ?nd necessary to prevent or minimize any possible
adverse effects of
the proposed planned development; or to ensure its compatibility with surrounding uses
and development and its consistency with the general purposes, goals, and
objectives of this title, title 10 of the village code,
and the comprehensive plan. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
ordinance or resolution granting the approval in question. Violation of any
such condition or limitation shall be a violation of this title and shall
constitute grounds for revocation of all approvals granted
for the planned development.
7.   Affidavit of Compliance with Conditions; Fee. Whenever any planned
development approval granted pursuant to this section is
made subject to conditions or limitations to be met by the applicant, the
applicant will, upon meeting such conditions, ?le an unconditional agreement
and consent with the Village Clerk acknowledging and agreeing
to these conditions and limitations. The unconditional agreement and consent will be
accompanied by a non-refundable fee, to be ?xed in each case by the Village
Board, to recover the village’s
actual direct cost of an inspection to verify that such conditions and
limitations have been met.
 
8.   Regulation During and Following Completion of Development. Following ?nal
plan approval, in the event of an express con?ict between the provisions of the
?nal plan and
this title, the ?nal plan will control. This title will control in all other instances.
9.   Inspections During Development.
a.   Inspections by Village Board. Following approval of the ?nal plan of a
planned development, or any stage thereof,
the Village Board will, at least annually until the
completion of development, review all permits issued and construction undertaken and
compare actual development with the approved plans for development and with the
approved development schedule.
b.   Action by Village Board. If the Village Board ?nds that development is not
proceeding in accordance with the approved schedule, or that it fails in any other respect
to comply with the ?nal plan, the Village Board will immediately notify the
owner or applicant of such fact and may,
if necessary to protect the public health, safety, or welfare or to prevent
further violation of this title and the ?nal plan, issue an order stopping any
and all work on the planned development until such time as any noncompliance
is cured.
c.   Action by Village Board. Within sixty (60)-
days following noti?cation by the Village Board, the Village Board will either:
(1)   Take
such steps as it deems necessary to compel compliance with the ?nal plan;
or
(2)   Require the owner or applicant to seek an amendment to the ?nal plan as
provided in subsection 9-6-5 C.10.a. of this chapter.
10.   Amendments to Final Plan During Development or Following Completion of
Development
a.   Minor Amendment. During or after the development of a planned development, the
Zoning Officer may authorize minor amendments to the ?nal plan when such
amendments appear necessary in light of the technical or engineering
considerations ?rst discovered
during actual development. Such minor amendments will be consistent with the intent and
purpose of this title and the ?nal plan as approved. , will be the minimum
necessary to overcome the particular difficulty and Minor amendments shall not
be approved if they would result in a violation of any standard or requirement
of this title. Such minor amendments will be limited to the following:
(1)   Altering the location of any one structure or group of structures by not more than
?ve feet (5') or one-fourth (1/4) of the distance shown on the approved ?nal
plan between
 
such structure or structures and any other structure or any vehicular circulation element or
any boundary of the planned development, whichever is less;
(2)   Altering the location of any circulation element by not more than ?ve
feet (5') or one-fourth (1/
4) of the distance shown on the approved ?nal plan between such circulation
element and any structure, whichever is less;
(3)   Altering the location of any open space by not more than twenty feet 
(20');
(4)   Altering any ?nal grade by not more than ten percent 
(10%) of the originally
planned grade; and
    (5)  Altering the location or type of landscaping elements;
(65) Altering the location of aboveground service facilities;
(76) Changes Regular maintenance and repair to building facades;
(87) The installation of emergency warning sirens;
(98) Alterations to, or the installation of, fencing;
(109)   The installation of private generators, compressors, condensers,
storage
tanks, and similar equipment;
(110)   Alterations to approved landscaping plans;
(112) Alterations to approved signage;
(123) Installation of or alterations to refuse disposal areas, rooftop
mechanicals,
traffic control gates, security guard shelters, and sidewalks; and
(134) An alteration in the approved development schedule or phasing plan.
(14)   Modi?cations or additions to ?atwork.
 
b.   Major Amendment. Any changes to the ?nal plan not authorized by
subsection 9-6- 5 C.10.a. will be considered to a major amendment and will be
granted only upon application to and approval by,
the Village Board. The Village Board may, by ordinance duly adopted, grant
approval for a major change without a hearing upon ?nding that any changes in
the ?nal plan as approved will be in substantial conformity with said ?nal
plan. If the Village Board determines that a major change is not in substantial
conformity with the ?nal plan as approved, then the Village Board may refer the
request to the Plan Commission for further hearing, review, and recommendation.
 
    11. Amendments to Final Plan
Following Completion of Development. After completion  of a planned
development, an approved ?nal plan may be amended, varied, or altered
only pursuant to the procedures and subject to the standards and limitations
provided in this  section for approval of the planned development. (Ord. 2024-
6, 3-7-2024)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ordinance No. 2025-36
                
 
BOARD MEETING 
AGENDA ITEM - HISTORY/COMMENTARY 
ITEM TITLE: An Ordinance Amending the Village Code of the Village
of Woodridge-Title3, Chapter 3-Liquor Control and Chapter 4-      AGENDA DATE:
Amusements and Special Events-Adding a New Class A-2 Liquor       9/18/2025 
License 
ITEM REVIEW
 
TO:   Mayor & Village Board
THROUGH:   Al Stonitsch, Village Administrator
FROM:   Andie Trucco, Assistant to the Village Administrator  
INITIATOR:    Andie Trucco, Assistant to the Village Administrator    
 
  
                                         
 
PURPOSE AND ACTION REQUESTED:
Staff is requesting Village Board consideration of a proposed Ordinance and related
amendments to the Village Code to: i.) create a new liquor license designation, A-
2, to accommodate a use that allows for a restaurant, full bar to allow wine for
off premise consumption, and a wine club with wine events, ii.) increase the number
of A-2 licenses to one (1), and designate the fees for said license at five
thousand dollars ($5,000), and iii.) add the A-2 liquor license designation to the
required category of licenses for Video Gaming. 
 
BACKGROUND:
Clara’s Restaurant is a family-owned and operated restaurant proudly serving the
Woodridge community since 1987. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the Village issued a
temporary liquor permit allowing off-site consumption, which allowed Clara’s to
explore new offerings, such as carry-out wine and cocktails and the launch of
“Clara’s Wine Club.” These changes had a profoundly positive impact on their
business. The reinstatement of off-premise packaged wine sales would allow Clara’s
to bring back their Wine Club, an initiative that not only boosted revenue but
became a beloved experience for many of their guests. 
 
DISCUSSION:
Staff received a request from Clara’s Restaurant to allow for off-premise packaged
wine sales as well as Wine Club Events. Currently, there is not a liquor license
classification that would be applicable to this use. Staff has worked with the
Village Attorney to create a license classification that would be applicable to
this use, and any future applicants that have a similar business model. 
At the September 4, 2025 Village Board Study Session, Clara’s was present to
discuss this request with the Board. During that discussion, Clara’s expressed
their interest in the Wine Club program with Wine Club Events, as well as the
allowance for off-premise packaged wine sales. Originally, Clara’s requested a
liquor license similar to the license they enjoyed temporarily during Covid. That
license allowed for off-premise consumption of wine, beer, and alcoholic liquor
(cocktails). However, based on Board feedback, as well as Clara’s desire primarily
for their wine program, there was a consensus that beer and alcoholic liquor for
consumption off premises would not be included in the proposed ordinance.  
Additional cleanup language related to "tastings” was clarified as “wine
events.” Also, based on Board feedback, the hours in which these events could be
conducted will be during authorized hours of business.   
The redlined version of the original with the new proposed Class A-2 Liquor License
language is below: 
Class A-2 which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises where sold when the primary business conducted upon said premises is
that of a restaurant and shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor wine for
consumption off-premises in its original packaging.  Holders of Class A-2 licenses
shall be permitted to operate a tasting room to conduct tastings of wine, or wine
related events, for consumption on premises where sold and make sales of wine in
sealed bottles. The Class A-2 license is subject to the following regulations: 
A.  The class A-2 license is authorized to host a Wine Club Event within the
licensed premises, subject to the following conditions: 
1.   Not more than 15 Wine Club Events may be conducted in any 12-month period;  
2.   A Wine Club Event may be conducted only after 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday
and after 12:00 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday during the authorized hours of
business; 
3.   That portion of the licensed premises dedicated to offering tastings or wine
events shall be segregated from the remainder of the premises; 
4.   A price may be set forth for such tastings Events; 
5.   All applicable taxes, including Sales Tax shall be collected and paid on all
revenue realized from tastings Events; 
6.   The wines featured at a Wine Club Event may be assembled and sold only to the
attendees of the Event or later out of the restaurant’s regular stock. Those wines
may not be sold to the general public during the Event. 
BUDGET:
The creation and issuance of this license type would increase revenues in the
licenses, permits, and fees category by $5,000.   
 
RECOMMENDATION:
Staff is requesting Village Board consideration of a proposed Ordinance and related
amendments to the Village to: i.) create a new liquor license designation, A-2, to
accommodate a use that allows for a restaurant, full bar to allow wine for off
premise consumption, and a wine club with wine events, ii.) increase the number of
A-2 licenses to one (1), and designate the fees for said license at five thousand
dollars ($5,000), and iii.) add the A-2 liquor license designation to the required
category of licenses for Video Gaming. 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3542_9356x602.jpg]
WHEREAS, the Village of Woodridge (the “Village”) is a home rule municipality
in accordance with the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970;
WHEREAS, the Village has the authority to adopt ordinances and to promulgate
rules and regulations that pertain to its government and affairs that protect
the public health, safety and welfare of its citizens;
  
WHEREAS, Title 3, Chapter 3 of the Municipal Code for the Village (the “Code”)
regulates the sale and purchase of alcoholic beverages in the Village, and the
licensing of business establishments for that purpose; 
WHEREAS, Title 3, Chapter 4 of the Code regulates amusements and special
events, including video gaming, in the Village, and the licensing of business
establishments for that purpose; 
WHEREAS, the corporate authorities have determined that it is in the best
interests of the residents of the Village to amend and update Title 3, Chapter
3 and Chapter 4 of the Code with respect to liquor license classifications and
Video Gaming; and   
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Woodridge, DuPage, Will and Cook Counties, Illinois, as follows:    
SECTION ONE: That the recitals set forth hereinabove are incorporated herein by
reference as substantive provisions of this Ordinance.  
SECTION TWO:  That Title 3, Chapter 3, Section 3-3-8 of the Code, entitled
“LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS”, is hereby amended by adding thereto the following
additional language: 
…“CLASS A-2 which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold when the primary business conducted upon
said premises is that of a restaurant and shall permit the retail sale of wine
for consumption off-premises in its original packaging. Holders of Class A-
2 licenses shall be permitted to operate a tasting room to conduct tastings of
wine, or wine events (an “Event”), for consumption on premises where sold and
make sales of wine in sealed bottles.  The Class A-2 license is subject to the
following regulations: 
A.   The class A-2 license is authorized to host an Event within the licensed
premises, subject to the following conditions: 
1.   Not more than 15 Events may be conducted in any 12-month period; 
2.   An Event may be conducted during the authorized hours of business; 
3.   That portion of the licensed premises dedicated to offering tastings or
wine events shall be segregated from the remainder of the premises;  
4.   A price may be set forth for such Events; 
5.   All applicable taxes, including Sales Tax shall be collected and paid on
all revenue realized from Events;  
6.   The wines featured at an Event may be assembled and sold only to the
attendees of the Event or later out of the restaurant’s regular stock. Those
wines may not be sold to the general public during the Event. 
 
 SECTION THREE:  That Title 3, Chapter 3, Section 3-3-9 of the Code, entitled
“LICENSE FEES”, is hereby amended by adding thereto the following additional
language: 
…”A-2   5,000   5,000”… 
SECTION FOUR:  That Title 3, Chapter 3, Section 3-3-10 of the Code, entitled
“NUMBER OF LICENSES”, is hereby amended by adding thereto the following
additional language:  
Class A-2         
SECTION FIVE: That Title 3, Chapter 3, Section 3-3-8 of the Code, entitled
“LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS”, is hereby amended by adding thereto the following
additional language: 
…“ CLASS VG (video gaming), which is a supplemental license only, permits video
gaming only in a licensed establishment (as defined in chapter 4, article E of
this title) otherwise qualified to hold a video gaming license. Class VG
licenses shall only be issued to holders of Class A-1, A-2, A-3, or E-1 liquor
licenses. 
A complete and accurate application to the Village for the issuance of a video
gaming license shall be deemed an application for the issuance of a Class VG
supplemental license. 
Class VG licenses may only be issued to qualified licensed establishments which
have continuously operated while holding a Class A-1, A-2, A-3, or E-1 liquor
license for a period of at least one year prior to the date of application for
a Class VG license. A new establishment must meet the one (1)-year continuous
operation requirements..” 
SECTION SIX: That Title 3, Chapter 3, Section 3-3-16J of the Code, entitled
“Video Gaming Restricted To Certain Licensed Premises Only”, is hereby amended
adding thereto the following additional language: 
…“ Notwithstanding any provision of chapter 4, article E of this title or any
other provisions of this Code to the contrary, no liquor licensee shall be
eligible to engage in video gaming or be issued a video gaming license, unless
said licensee is the holder of a Class A-1,A-2, A-3, or E-1 liquor license and
has been issued a supplemental Class VG liquor license and unless meals shall
be actually and regularly prepared on the premises and served in accordance
with either a general or specialized menu…” 
SECTION SEVEN: That Title 3, Chapter 3, Section 3-3-17F of the Code is hereby
amended by adding thereto the following additional language: 
…“Class A-1, A-2, A-3, A-3NB, A-4, C-3, and H-1 licenses”…   
SECTION EIGHT:  That Title 3 Chapter 4, Section 4E-2 of the Code, entitled
“Video Gaming Allowed”, is hereby amended adding thereto the following
additional language: 
“Video gaming is allowed in certain licensed establishments within the Village
only in accordance with this article. Subject to all other provisions of this
article, video gaming shall only be permitted and a video gaming license issued
to a licensed establishment that is the holder of a Class A-1, A-2, A-3, or E-
1 liquor license, where meals shall be actually and regularly prepared on the
premises and served in accordance with either a general or specialized menu.
Adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment shall be provided and
maintained. The licensed premises shall have a minimum "total floor area" of
two thousand (2,000) square feet as that term is defined in chapter 1 of this
title. Further, subject to all other provisions of this article, video gaming
shall only be permitted and a video gaming license issued to a licensed
establishment that, in addition to being the holder of a Class A-1, A-2, A-3,
or E-1 liquor license, has been issued a supplemental Class VG liquor
license.”  
SECTION NINE:  That all ordinances and resolutions, or parts thereof, in
conflict with the provisions of this Ordinance are, to the extent of such
conflict, expressly repealed.  
SECTION TEN:  That this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect ten (10)
days from and after its passage, approval and publication in pamphlet form as
provided by law. 
PASSED this 18 th day of September, 2025.
RESULT:   ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:   Trustee Page     
SECONDER:Trustee Anteliz  
AYES: Trustee Anteliz, Trustee Nekovar, Trustee Page, Trustee Martinez, Trustee
Kagann  
   
APPROVED this 18 th day of September 2025.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3545_5858x1846.jpg]  
_______________________________________________
Gina Cunningham, Mayor
  
ATTEST:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3548_5151x2147.jpg]  
__________________________________  
Joe Heneghan, Village Clerk
  
  
Filed in the Office of the Village Clerk and published in pamphlet form by
authority of the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of Woodridge,
DuPage, Will, and Cook Counties, Illinois, this 18th day of September 2025.
   
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3551_5151x2147.jpg]  
________________________________
  
Joe Heneghan, Village Clerk
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ord 2025-29
 
 
 
BOARD MEETING
AGENDA ITEM - HISTORY/COMMENTARY
ITEM TITLE: An Ordinance Amending the Village Code of the Village
of Woodridge Title 6, Which Governs Motor Vehicles and Traffic    AGENDA DATE:
Within the Village, to Incorporate Electronic Bicycles and        9/18/2025
Scooters
ITEM REVIEW
TO:   Mayor & Village Board
THROUGH: Al Stonitsch, Village Administrator FROM:   Police Chief Tom
Stefanson INITIATOR:      Tom Stefanson
 
 
PURPOSE AND ACTION REQUESTED:
Staff is recommending Village Board approval of an Ordinance that amends Title
6 of the Village Code, which governs motor vehicles and traffic within the
Village.
 
BACKGROUND:
The Village Police Department has determined that it is in the best interest of
the Village and the public to address the use of bicycles, low-
speed electric bicycles, low- speed gas bicycles, and scooters upon streets,
sidewalks, and other public ways within the Village.
 
DISCUSSION:
The proposed ordinance includes the following recommendations:
 
Minimum age to operate a low-speed electric or gas bicycle: 16 years old
Minimum age to operate a low-speed electric scooter: 18 years old
DOT-approved helmets required for all operators 21 and under
 
 
 
BUDGET:  N/A
 
Apply all standard traffic laws to riders of E-bikes, E-scooters, mopeds, and
gas bicycles
 
Prohibits any device with an electric motor over 750 watts or off-highway
motorcycles on public property
 
Clarifies that these rules do not apply to motorized wheelchairs or personal
mobility devices used by individuals with disabilities
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3554_9224x7423.jpg]
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3557_9325x567.jpg]
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Village of Woodridge (the “Village”) is a home rule municipality
in accordance with the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970;
WHEREAS, the Village has the authority to adopt ordinances and to promulgate
rules and regulations that pertain to its government and affairs that protect
the public health, safety and welfare of its citizens;
WHEREAS, Title 6 of the Village Code of the Village of Woodridge (the “Code”)
governs motor vehicles and traffic within the Village;
WHEREAS, the Village Police Department has recommended the Code be amended to
address the use of bicycles, low-speed electric bicycles, low-speed gas
bicycles and scooters upon streets, sidewalks, and other public ways within the
Village;
 
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have reviewed the recommendation, and has
duly considered same; and
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have determined that it is in the best
interest of the Village and the public interest to amend the Code to address
the use of bicycles, low-speed electric bicycles, low-speed gas bicycles and
scooters upon streets, sidewalks, and other public ways within the Village.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF WOODRIDGE, DUPAGE, WILL AND COOK COUNTIES, ILLINOIS AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION ONE: That the recitals set forth hereinabove are incorporated herein by
reference as substantive provisions of this Ordinance.
SECTION TWO: That Title 6, Chapter 2, Section 6-2-2 of the Code is hereby
amended by
adding the following definitions:
LOW SPEED ELECTRIC SCOOTER - a device weighing less than 100 pounds, with 2 or
3 wheels, handlebars, and a floorboard that can be stood upon while riding,
that is solely powered by an electric motor and human power, and whose maximum
speed, with or without human propulsion, is no more than 10 miles per hour.
LOW SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE - A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals and
an electric motor of less than 750 watts, and that meets the requirements of
one of the three (3) classifications set forth in Section 1-140.10 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1-140.10, as amended.
LOW SPEED GAS BICYCLE - A 2-wheeled or 3-wheeled device with fully operable
pedals and a gasoline motor of less than one horsepower or 15 cubic centimeter
displacement that is operated at speeds of less than 20 miles per hour.
SECTION THREE: That Title 6, Chapter 9 of the Code is hereby amended as
follows: 6-9-5: Traffic Laws Apply:
Every person riding or operating a bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, low-
speed gas bicycle, moped, or low-speed electric scooter on any street, roadway,
alley, sidewalk, or parking lot or on other public property within the Village
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except as to special regulations for the use of such devices as set forth in
this Chapter or in the Illinois Vehicle Code. Additionally, every person
operating a bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, low-speed gas bicycle,
 
moped, or low-speed electric scooter shall comply with all special regulations
set forth in Chapter 11 (Rules of the Road), Article XV (Bicycles) of the
Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-1501 through 11-1518, inclusive, and as
amended from time to time) and all additional regulations and restrictions
provided in this chapter.
6-9-6: Operation of bicycles, low-speed electric bicycles, low-speed gas
bicycles, mopeds, or low-speed electric scooters within the Village.
A.   Application:
1.   It is unlawful for a person to do any act forbidden, or fail to perform
any act required, by any provision of this chapter or any applicable provision
of the Illinois Vehicle Code while riding or operating a bicycle, low-speed
electric bicycle, lowspeed gas bicycle, moped, or low-speed electric scooter
within the Village.
2.   It is unlawful for a person to permit any minor child of which they are a
parent or guardian to violate any provision of this chapter or any applicable
provision of the Illinois Vehicle Code while riding or operating a bicycle,
low-speed electric bicycle, low- speed gas bicycle, moped, or low-speed
electric scooter within the Village.
B.   Additional Regulations and Restrictions:
1. The following additional regulations and restrictions shall apply to the
operation of a low-speed electric bicycle, low-speed gas bicycle, or low-speed
electric scooter on any street, roadway, alley, sidewalk, bicycle path, multi-
use path, or parking lot or on other public property within the Village:
(a)   A Class 2 low-speed electric bicycle shall operate in a manner so that
the electric motor is disengaged or ceases to function when the brakes are
applied. A Class 1 low- speed electric bicycle and a Class 3 low-speed electric
bicycle shall operate in a manner so that the electric motor is disengaged or
ceases to function when the rider stops pedaling.
(b)   A person may operate a low-speed electric bicycle (including a Class 1,
Class 2, or Class 3 low-speed electric bicycle) or low-speed gas bicycle only
if the person is at least 16 years of age. This limitation does not apply to a
Class 1 or Class 2 low-speed electric bicycle that is being operated under
manual power only and without utilizing motorized propulsion or assistance.
(c)   A person may operate a low-speed electric scooter only if the person is
at least 18 years of age.
(d)   Any operator of a low-speed electric scooter, low-speed electric bicycle
or lowspeed gas bicycle that is 21 years of age or younger, shall wear a
Department of Transportation (DOT) approved helmet.
 
(e)   A person may operate a low-speed electric bicycle, low-speed gas bicycle
or low- speed electric scooter upon any street, roadway or bicycle path
authorized for use by bicycles, including but not limited to, bike path lanes,
in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.
(f)   a person may not operate a low-speed electric bicycle or low-speed gas
bicycle on any sidewalk.
(g)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the use of a
motorized wheelchair or similar personal mobility device that is designed for
and used by a person with disabilities on any sidewalk, multi-use path, or
other public way consistent with the rights and duties applicable
to pedestrians.
(h)   No person may operate any bicycle that is equipped with an electric-
powered motor of 750 watts or more, or any off-highway motorcycle on any
street, roadway, alley, sidewalk, bicycle path, multi-use path, or parking lot
or on other public property within the Village.
SECTION FOUR: If any section, paragraph, clause, sentence or provision of this
Ordinance shall be found and determined to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, all valid parts that are severable from the invalid parts shall
remain in full force and effect.
SECTION FIVE: All ordinances and resolutions, or parts thereof, in conflict
with the provisions of this Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict,
hereby repealed.
SECTION SIX: This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage, approval and publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED this 18th day of September, 2025.
RESULT:   ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:   Trustee Page SECONDER: Trustee Anteliz
AYES: Trustee Anteliz, Trustee Nekovar, Trustee Page, Trustee Martinez, Trustee
Kagann
 
 
APPROVED this 18th day of September 2025.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3560_4006x1108.jpg]
 
 
Gina Cunningham, Mayor
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
 
 
 
Filed in the Office of the Village Clerk and published in pamphlet form by
authority of the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of Woodridge,
DuPage, Will, and Cook Counties, Illinois, this 18th day of September 2025.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3563_3042x1247.jpg]
 
Joe Heneghan, Village Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ord 2025-31
 
 
 
BOARD MEETING
AGENDA ITEM - HISTORY/COMMENTARY
ITEM TITLE: An Ordinance Updating the Fine Structure Related to AGENDA DATE:
Village Ordinance Chapter 6 Title 9 “Bicycles”              9/18/2025
ITEM REVIEW
TO:   Mayor & Village Board
THROUGH: Al Stonitsch, Village Administrator FROM:   Police Chief Tom
Stefanson INITIATOR:   Tom Stefanson
 
 
 
 
PURPOSE: To discuss updating the fine structure related to Village Ordinance
Chapter 6 Title 9 “Bicycles”
 
BACKGROUND: The Village Code contains several regulations that the Woodridge
Police Department can enforce, including the safe operation of bicycles. The
Village Board will be considering amending the existing Bicycle Ordinance to
include the operation of low-speed electric bicycles, low-speed gas bicycles
and electric scooters. Related to the Bicycle Ordinance, the Village Code also
has a fine structure for violations of the bicycle ordinance.
 
DISCUSSION: The existing fine structure for violations of the bicycle ordinance
can be found in Title 1 Chapter 4 Section 2-G. This section of the code
indicates that fines for violations of the Bicycle code are either $5 or $10,
depending on the violation.
These fine amounts have not been updated in several years and are quite low
compared to other villages. For instance, Darien just passed a similar
ordinance that has a fine structure of $25 to $750. The Village of Glen Ellyn
lists a fine structure for their ordinance to be not less than $75 and not more
than $750. The Village of Woodridge will be exploring the opportunity for local
adjudication in the near future.
As part of that, the entire fine structure for the Woodridge Village Code will
be reviewed. However, the existing bicycle fine structure needs updating until
that
 
 
process is completed. A review of other police enforced code violations
reveals that
$30 is a common fine. This amount is for a first offense and can be raised by
$15 or
$30 for subsequent violations in a 12-month span.
 
SUMMARY: The fine structure for Woodridge Village Code “Bicycles” is very low,
especially when compared to other villages. A review of the entire Village of
Woodridge Fine structure is forthcoming but not for some time. Due to a
potential update to the Bicycle Ordinance that would include low speed electric
bicycles, scooters and low-speed gas bicycles, an update to the fine structure
is necessary now. As a matter of consistency with other police enforced
sections of the code, $30 is an appropriate fine amount for all violations of
the Bicycle Ordinance.
 
RECOMMENDATION: It is my recommendation that Title 1 Chapter 4 Section 2-G be
amended to set a fine amount of $30 for each violation listed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3568_9209x4491.jpg]
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3571_9325x567.jpg]
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Village of Woodridge (the “Village”) is a home rule municipality
in accordance with the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970;
 
WHEREAS, the Village has the authority to adopt ordinances and to promulgate
rules and regulations that pertain to its government and affairs that protect
the public health, safety and welfare of its citizens;
 
WHEREAS, Title 6 of the Village Code of the Village of Woodridge (the “Code”)
governs motor vehicles and traffic within the Village;
WHEREAS, Title 1, Chapter 4 of the Code governs fine structures for violations of
the Village’s bicycle ordinance;
WHEREAS, the Village Police Department has recommended the Code be amended to
address the use of bicycles, low-speed electric bicycles, low-speed gas
bicycles and scooters upon streets, sidewalks, and other public ways within the
Village and the fines associated with enforcing safe operations of bicycles;
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have reviewed the recommendation, and has
duly considered same; and
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have determined that it is in the best interest
of the Village and the public interest to amend the Code to address the use of bicycles,
 
low-speed electric bicycles, low-
speed gas bicycles and scooters upon streets, sidewalks, and other public ways
within the Village and the fines associated with enforcing safe operations
of bicycles.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF WOODRIDGE, DUPAGE, WILL AND COOK COUNTIES, ILLINOIS AS FOLLOWS:
 
SECTION ONE: That the recitals set forth hereinabove are incorporated herein by
reference as substantive provisions of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION TWO: That Title 1, Chapter 4, Section 1-4-2-G of the Code is hereby
amended by setting the following fines in subsection 8 thereof:
 
A fine amount of no less than $50 for each violation listed therein.
 
The $50 fine is for the first offense and can be increased by $15 or $30 for
subsequent violations in a 12-month span.
 
SECTION THREE: If any section, paragraph, clause, sentence or provision of this
Ordinance shall be found and determined to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, all valid parts that are severable from the invalid parts shall remain in full force
and effect.
 
SECTION FOUR: All ordinances and resolutions, or parts thereof, in conflict
with the provisions of this Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict,
hereby repealed.
 
SECTION FIVE: This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage, approval and publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
 
PASSED this 18th day of September, 2025.
RESULT:   ADOPTED [MAJORITY]
MOVER:   Trustee Anteliz SECONDER: Trustee Maritnez
AYES: Trustee Anteliz, Trustee Nekovar, Trustee Martinez, Trustee Kagann
NAYS: Trustee Page
APPROVED this 18th day of September 2025.
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3574_4672x1133.jpg]
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
 
 
Filed in the Office of the Village Clerk and published in pamphlet form by
authority of the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of Woodridge,
DuPage, Will, and Cook Counties, Illinois, this 18th day of September 2025.
 
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3577_3024x1234.jpg]
 
Joe Heneghan, Village Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ord 2025-38
 
 
 
BOARD MEETING
AGENDA ITEM - HISTORY/COMMENTARY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3604_9194x960.jpg]
 
ITEM TITLE: An Ordinance Amending Title 10, Chapter 5,
Section 5 of the Woodridge Code of Ordinances (Required Improvements)
ITEM REVIEW
TO:   Mayor & Village Board
THROUGH: Al Stonitsch, Village Administrator
AGENDA DATE:
10/02/2025
 
 
FROM:   Kimberly Clarke, Director of Community and Economic Development
INITIATOR: Jacob Sodaro, Planner
 
PURPOSE AND ACTION REQUESTED:
Staff is requesting Board consideration of a proposed Ordinance authorizing an
amendment to Title 10, Chapter 5, Section 5 of the Municipal Code regarding
required utility service improvements.
 
BACKGROUND:
After feedback from several development projects regarding the required burial
of overhead utility lines, staff wanted to strengthen the subdivision code’s
language for required improvements. The current text reads:
“All communication, power and other service lines shall be placed in
underground easements.”
While this has been consistently interpreted in the past to include existing
utility lines, the language has been called into question by prospective
developers as not explicitly calling out existing utilities.
DISCUSSION:
The newly proposed language reads:
“All newly proposed utility and service lines must be located underground.
All existing above-ground utility and service lines-including communication,
power, and other lines-located within the public right-of-way or on private
property shall, to the
extent solely determined by the Village, be relocated underground. Such relocation shall
occur within non-exclusive utility easements or public rights-of-way.
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3607_9194x30.jpg]
If burial is deemed infeasible, the Village may require payment of a fee-in-
lieu, to be paid upon project approval. The Village shall have sole discretion
to determine the feasibility of relocating existing utilities underground, the
approval of the cost estimate, and the use of fee-in-lieu funds.”
The proposed language is explicit in the requirement to bury any proposed or
existing utility lines as a part of development. This also gives staff sole
jurisdiction to determine if the burial of utility lines is infeasible and to
collect a fee-in-lieu from a development
that is unable to bury the lines. There is flexibility for the use of fee-in-
lieu funds as well, being able to be allocated to any future infrastructure
projects. The complete redlined text is attached as Exhibit “A”.
RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends Village Board approval of the proposed Ordinance authorizing
an amendment to Title 10, Chapter 5, Section 5 of the Municipal Code regarding
required utility service improvements.
 
An Ordinance Amending Title 10, Chapter 5, Section 5 of the Woodridge Code of
Ordinances (Required Improvements)
WHEREAS, the Village of Woodridge (the “Village”) is a home rule municipality
in accordance with the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970;
WHEREAS, the Village has the authority to adopt ordinances and to promulgate
rules and regulations that pertain to its government and affairs that protect
the public health, safety and welfare of its citizens;
WHEREAS, on or about September 10, 2025, staff initiated a text amendment to
update Title 10, Chapter 5, Section 5 of the Woodridge Code of Ordinances,
regulating Required Utility Improvements (the “proposed Text Amendment”)
WHEREAS, Notice of Public Hearing on said proposed Text Amendment was published
on or about September 16, 2025, as required by the ordinances of the Village
and the Statues of the State of Illinois
WHEREAS, the Mayor and Board of Trustees have received the recommendation, a
redlined version of which is attached hereto as Exhibit "A" which is, by this
reference, incorporated herein; and
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have reviewed the proposed Text Amendment,
and have determined it to be in the public interest to approve the same.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Woodridge, DuPage, Will and Cook Counties, Illinois, as follows:
SECTION ONE:   That the recitals set forth hereinabove are incorporated herein
by reference as substantive provisions of this Ordinance.
SECTION TWO: That Title 10, Chapter 5, Section 5 of the Code of Ordinances,
is hereby amended to clarify regulations regarding Required Utility Improvements, as set
forth in Exhibit “A” hereto.
SECTION THREE: If any section, paragraph, clause, sentence or provision of this
Ordinance shall be found and determined to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
all valid parts that are severable from the invalid parts shall remain in full force and effect.
SECTION FOUR:
   All ordinances and resolutions, or parts thereof, in conflict with the
provisions of this Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict,
hereby repealed.
SECTION FIVE:   This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage, approval and publication in pamphlet form as provided by law
 
 
 
PASSED this 2nd day of October 2025.
RESULT:   ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:   Trustee Page SECONDER: Trustee Anteliz
AYES: Trustee Anteliz, Trustee Nekovar, Trustee Page, Trustee Martinez, Trustee
Kagann
 
 
APPROVED this 2nd day of October 2025.
 
 
 
 
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3610_3795x957.jpg]
Gina Cunningham, Mayor
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
 
Filed in the Office of the Village Clerk and published in pamphlet form by
authority of the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of Woodridge,
DuPage, Will, and Cook Counties, Illinois, this 2 nd  day of October 2025.
 
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3613_3121x1267.jpg]
 
Joe Heneghan, Village Clerk
 
10-5-5   : UTILITY SERVICES:
A.   All newly proposed utility and service lines must be located underground.
B. All existing above-ground utility and service lines-including communication,
power, and other lines-located within the public right-of-way or on
private property shall, to the extent solely determined by the Village, be
relocated underground. Such relocation shall occur within non-exclusive utility
easements or public rights-of-way.
C. If burial is deemed infeasible, the Village may require payment of a fee-in-
lieu, to be paid upon project approval. The Village shall have sole discretion
to determine the feasibility of relocating existing utilities underground, the
approval of the cost estimate, and the use of fee-in-lieu funds.
A.   All communication, power and other service lines shall be placed in
underground easements.
B.D.    Conduit or cables shall be placed within easements or dedicated public
ways in a manner which will not conflict with other underground services.
Further, all transformer boxes shall be located so as not to be unsightly or
hazardous to the public.
C.E.    All drainage and underground utility installations which traverse
privately owned property shall be protected by easements.
D.F.    In subdivisions containing lots of one and one-half (1 1 / 2 ) acres in
area and less than five (5) acres and where future resubdivision of lots is
possible, easements for future street and utility lines shall be shown at
locations necessary to serve future lots.
E.G.    Permits for utility services shall be obtained from the enforcing
officer of this title for the installation of communication, electric power,
gas and other utility services before any installation is started. (1976
Code §16-92)
F.H.    In all situations where the potable water, sanitary sewer, and/or storm
sewer systems are being extended to provide service to a new property, such
utility system shall be extended to the far side of the property in order to be
available for future extensions by subsequent property owners. (Ord. 2013-53,
10-24- 2013)
 
 
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 91-57
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE RECODIFICATION OF THE VILLAGE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
WOODRIDGE, ILLINOIS.
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Woodridge, Illinois, an Illinois Municipal Corporation:
   SECTION ONE: That the Village Code of the Village of Woodridge, Illinois,
prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., a copy of which is attached hereto as
Exhibit A, be and the same is hereby adopted as the Official Village Code of
the Village of Woodridge.
   SECTION TWO: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the
Village Code attached hereto as Exhibit A, containing the compilation of all
ordinances of a general nature together with the changes made to said
ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the Village, shall be
accepted in all courts without question as the Official Code and Law of the
Village as enacted by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   SECTION THREE: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual
codification, the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous
supplement service, provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly
adopted ordinance of a general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding
or deleting provisions of the Official Village Code is identified by the proper
catchline and is inserted in proper place in each of the official copies, three
(3) copies of which shall be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk,
certified as to correctness and available for inspection at any and all times
that said office is regularly open.
   SECTION FOUR: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official
Village Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said Official Village Code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the Village Code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
Official Village Code.
   SECTION FIVE: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Village to be
misrepresented thereby.
   SECTION SIX: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith,
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   SECTION SEVEN: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in
full force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance
with law, as printed and published in book form by order of the Mayor and Board
of Trustees.
   PASSED this 24th day of October, 1991.
   Trustee Johannsen   AYE   Trustee Potempa   ABSENT
   Trustee Murphy   AYE   Trustee Stansbury   AYE
   Trustee Peterson   AYE   Trustee Wood   AYE
   APPROVED this 24th day of October, 1991.
         /s/ William F. Murphy
         Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Dorothy M. Stahl
Village Clerk
Filed in the office of the Village Clerk and published in pamphlet form by
authority of the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of Woodridge,
DuPage and Will Counties, this 24th day of October, 1991.
         /s/ Dorothy M. Stahl
         Village Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon its adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official Code of the Village.
This Village Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the WOODRIDGE
VILLAGE CODE and it is hereby published by authority of the Board of Trustees
and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the
City as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Village Code by title in any legal document. (1991 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the Village of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Code. (1991 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the Village Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Village Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the Village Code. (1991 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Village Board. The Village Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk.
Any person having in his custody an official copy of the Village Code shall
make every effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent
ordinances codified. He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or
replacement pages when such are delivered to him or made available to him
through the office of the Village Clerk. Said Code books while in actual
possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the
property of the Village and shall be returned to the office of the Clerk when
directed to do so by order of the Village Board. (1991 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this
Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Village
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village; and all special ordinances. (1991 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Village Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the Village Code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this Village Code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1991 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect; save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Village Code. (1991 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Village Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Village Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1991 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
In the construction of this code and of all ordinances, the rules and
definitions set out in this section shall be observed, unless such construction
would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of trustees. The
rules of construction and definitions set out herein shall not be applied to
any section of this code which shall contain any express provision excluding
such construction, or where the subject matter of the context of such section
may be repugnant thereto.
All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this code
shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the
board of trustees may be fully carried out.
In the interpretation and application of any provision of this code, it shall
be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision
of this code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the
general provision imposed by this code, the provision imposing the greater
restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. (1976 Code §1-2)
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the village has been
changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the village's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1991 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meanings
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred either
express or implied to do so.
BOARD, BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD: Whenever the term "board", "board of
trustees" or "village board" is used, it shall be construed to mean the board
of trustees of the village of Woodridge.
CODE: The municipal code of Woodridge, Illinois, and amendments thereto.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be
done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on
which such notice is given, or such act is done, shall be counted in computing
the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall not be
counted. "Time" shall mean Central Standard Time, except when the state of
Illinois is on daylight saving time and then it shall mean Central Daylight
Saving Time.
CORPORATE OR VILLAGE LIMITS: The legal boundaries of the village of Woodridge.
COUNTY OR THIS COUNTY: DuPage and/or Will Counties, Illinois.
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY: Whenever a provision appears requiring the manager of
a department or some other village officer to do some act or perform some duty,
it is to be construed to authorize the manager of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the
village of Woodridge".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the village shall extend from January 1 through
December 31; provided, however, that the first fiscal year after the effective
date hereof shall begin on May 1, 2014, and shall end on December 31, 2014.
GENDER: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied
to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
JOINT AUTHORITY: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: See definition of Village President.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village; or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
NUMBER: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to
several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
OATH: Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn"
shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICER: Any person defined to be an officer of the village by the statutes of
the state of Illinois or this code, as the same may be amended from time to
time.
Whenever any officer is referred to by title, such as "village clerk", "chief
of police", "mayor", etc., such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the village of Woodridge".
OFFICIAL: Any officer of the village or any employee of the village who is
charged with the interpretation and enforcement of any provision of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: The word "owner" applied to a building or land shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or
tenant by the entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every species of property except "real property" as
defined herein.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
SIDEWALK: Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION: Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
STATE: The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the
state of Illinois.
STREET: Embraces streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, bike
paths, sidewalks, viaducts and all other public ways in the village and shall
include all areas thereof embraced between the property lines and dedicated to
the public use.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: When applied to a building or land shall include any person
holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such
building or land, either alone or with others.
TENSE: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
VILLAGE: The village of Woodridge.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The president of the village shall hereafter be referred to
as "mayor" of the village.
WHOLESALE, WHOLESALER, ETC.: In all cases where the term "wholesale",
"wholesaler" or "wholesale dealer" is used in this code, unless otherwise
specifically defined, it shall be understood and held to relate to the sale of
goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who purchase for
purposes of resale, as distinguished from a retail dealer who sells in smaller
quantities direct to the consumer.
WRITTEN OR IN WRITING: Includes any representation of words, letters or
figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1976 Code §§1-2, 2-1, 2-49; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 2004-
30, 5-20-2004; Ord. 2014-23, 4-10-2014)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1991 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Penalty
1-4-2: Citations
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-5: Village Jail
1-4-1: PENALTY:
Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the village any act is prohibited
or is made or declared to be unlawful, or whenever in such code or ordinance
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no other penalty is expressly set forth, a violation of this
code or of any ordinance shall be punished by a fine of not less than seventy
five dollars ($75.00) and no more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
Each day any violation of any provision of this code or of any ordinance shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to a fine, the court
may impose a period of conditional discharge as defined in 730 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-4 or court supervision as defined in 730 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-21 of the criminal code for a period of up to six (6)
months, an order of restitution, an order to perform community service, an
order to complete an education program and/or any other appropriate penalties
or conditions authorized in any section of this code or ordinance or any
conditions for conditional discharge set forth in 730 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/5-6-3 or for court supervision in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
5-6-3.1 as the foregoing are amended from time to time. (Ord. 2012-03, 2-9-
2012)
1-4-2: CITATIONS:
   A.   Whenever any village officer or official is authorized to charge a
person or arrest a person without a warrant for a violation of the law in
respect to any of the subjects enumerated in subsection B of this section, the
village officer or official may, in lieu of filing a complaint in court, issue
the alleged violator a citation which shall comply with the provisions of this
section.
   B.   The authority of a village officer or official to issue a citation in
lieu of a complaint in court is specifically limited to the following subjects
and laws in regulation thereof:
      1.   Prohibiting and restricting the stopping, standing or parking of a
vehicle or house trailer in any designated area.
      2.   Restricting the length of time a vehicle may be parked there.
      3.   Restricting certain uses of vehicles.
      4.   Requiring the purchase and display of a vehicle sticker.
      5.   Regulating dogs, cats and animals.
      6.   Regulating burning, dumping or placement of refuse receptacles, and
placement of waste containers. (1976 Code §13-1)
Storage creating a fire hazard. Unsanitary deposits. Illegal collection of
recyclable materials. Certain regulations regarding commercial scavenger
service. (Ord. 2011-45, 9-8-2011)
      7.   Bicycle safety equipment requirements and regulations concerning
bicycle operation.
      8.   Requiring the owner or occupant of every house, building or
structure to place figures showing the address number thereon. (1976 Code §13-
1)
      9.   Regulating public sidewalks, public streets, bike paths and public
ways. (Ord. 2004-30, 5-20-2004)
      10.   Requiring the use of barricades and other safety devices on public
property.
      11.   Regulating the construction of buildings (certain provisions).
      12.   Requiring certain licenses or permits.
      13.   Requiring the destruction of noxious and improper growth of weeds
within the village limits.
      14.   Regulating nuisances.
      15.   Regulating certain zoning uses and restrictions.
      16.   Regulating certain vehicle equipment, vehicle loads and operation
of vehicles.
      17.   Regulating traffic and other matters, including regulations with
respect to skateboarding, rollerskating and bicycle riding, on private property
pursuant to traffic control agreements. (1976 Code §13-1)
      18.   Regulating the purchase and/or possession of tobacco products.
(Ord. 89-16, 3-23-1989)
      19.   Regulating the use of fire hydrants.
      20.   Regulating the use of water supply. (Ord. 2006-43, 8-3-2006)
      21.   Regulating the presence of person(s) under the age of seventeen
(17) years at specified locations during set days and times ("curfew"). (Ord.
2010-25, 5-6-2010)
      22.   Regulation of peddlers and commercial solicitors. (Ord. 2012-45, 8-
23-2012)
   C.   The citation provided for in subsection B of this section shall have
printed thereon statements which in substance:
      1.   Advise the person that he has violated a specific ordinance;
      2.   Request him to make payment in an amount applicable to the alleged
violation as set forth in subsection G of this section as settlement of the
violation claim; and
      3.   Inform him that upon failure to so settle, a complaint will be filed
in the circuit court of DuPage County, 18th judicial court, charging him with
the violation.
   D.   Pursuant to the citation specified in this section, the person accused
of the violation may settle the violation claim by paying to the village the
applicable amount as shown in the schedule set forth in this section within a
period to be specified in the citation, which period shall be not more than
fifteen (15) days from the time the alleged offense was committed. The
settlement payment shall be made in accordance with the instructions contained
in the citation at the office of the police department which shall issue a
receipt for the money so received and promptly remit the amount to the finance
department which shall in turn credit it to the proper village fund. (1976 Code
§13-1)
   E.   In the event that the person to whom the citation is issued fails to
settle and pay the violation claim within fifteen (15) days of issuance of the
citation, a final notice shall be issued. If payment of the prescribed amount
plus twenty dollars ($20.00) is not made within fifteen (15) days of issuance
of the final notice, then an additional fine shall be assessed. If payment of
the prescribed amount plus an additional forty dollar ($40.00) fine is not made
within thirty (30) days of issuance of the final notice, then an additional
fine shall be assessed. If payment of the prescribed amount plus an additional
seventy five dollars ($75.00) is not made within forty five (45) days of
issuance of the final notice then the village officer or official is authorized
to cause a notice to appear to be served upon the alleged violator and the
village officer or official is authorized to file a complaint in the 18th
judicial circuit court of DuPage County. (Ord. 2011-72, 12-21-2011)
   F.   For the purposes of this section, registration with the secretary of
state or with a municipality of a vehicle involved in any violation and the
owner of record disclosed by such registration shall be prima facie evidence
that the owner of record in such registration is the violator and that he was
in control of or was the operator of the automobile or motor vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation. (1976 Code §13-1)
   G.   Settlement of a violation claim established by citation may be made
prior to issuance of the final notice by payment of the appropriate settlement
fee as provided in the following schedule 1 :
1. Violations with respect to prohibiting and restricting the stopping,
standing or parking of a vehicle in any designated area:
    Parking on a sidewalk, parkway or bike path (6-5-1A)             $ 30.00
    Parking in front of a public or private driveway (6-5-1B)        30.00
    Parking within an intersection (6-5-1C)                          30.00
    Parking within 15 feet of a fire hydrant (6-5-1D)                50.00
    Parking on a crosswalk (6-5-1E)                                  30.00
    Parking within 20 feet of a crosswalk                               30.00
    at an intersection (6-5-1F)   
    Parking alongside or opposite any street excava-                     
    tion or obstruction when such parking would be                       
    obstructing traffic (6-5-1J)                                     30.00
    Parking on the roadway side of any vehicle parked                   30.00
    at the edge or curb of a street (6-5-1K)   
    Parking in or upon any highway or within a subway (6-5-1L)       30.00
    Parking, stopping or standing of a vehicle or house
    trailer where and when the same is prohibited or                     
    restricted (                                                         
    6-5-1,                                                              30.00
    9-5-1, 9-10-2K2)   
    Parking on the streets during snow removal (6-5-4C)              30.00
    Parking within 30 feet upon the approach                             
    to a flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic control                   
    signal located at the side of the roadway (6-5-1G)               30.00
    Parking between a safety zone and the adjacent                       
    curb or within 30 feet of points on the curb                         
    immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,                      
    unless the department or local authorities on                        
    highways under their respective jurisdiction shall                   
    permit such parking (6-5-1H)                                     30.00
    Parking within 20 feet of the driveway entrance                      
    to any fire station and on the side of a street                      
    opposite the entrance to any fire station within                     
    75 feet of the entrance when properly signposted                     
    (6-5-1I)                                                         30.00
    Parking vehicles "for sale" (6-5-4D)                             30.00
    Storing of unlicensed vehicles (                                    60.00
    6-5-9)   
    Parking in a handicapped zone (6-5-7D)                           300.00
    Permitting a vehicle to stand unattended without                     
    first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,                     
    and removing the key, or where standing upon any                     
    perceptible grade without effectively setting the                    
    brake thereon and turning the front wheels to the                    
    curb or side of the highway (                                       30.00
    6-5-3)   
    Parking where angle is permitted and failing to park                 
    within consecutive lines or markings on the pave-                    
    ment and/or failing to park with the right front                     
    wheels adjacent to the curb (6-5-2B)                             30.00
    Parking in, upon or along any designated                            50.00
    fire lane (6-5-1M)   
    Parking upon a street, other than an alley, which                   30.00
    restricts free movement of traffic (6-5-4A)   
    Unlawful to parallel park vehicle more than 12 inches               30.00
    from curb (6-5-2A)   
    Unlawful parking of a motor vehicle on private                      30.00
    property without permission of owner (6-5-8A)   
    Unlawful parking of a truck in any business district,                
    except when loading/unloading or between 11:00 P.M.                  
    and 7:00 A.M. (9-10-2I)                                          30.00
    Unlawful off street parking of a vehicle in a                       50.00
    front yard (6-5-12A)   
    Unlawful off street parking of a vehicle in a side                  50.00
    or rear yard (6-5-12B)   
    Removal of unlawfully parked vehicles (6-5-11A)                  50.00
2. Violations with respect to restricting the length of time a vehicle may be
parked in any designated area:
    Parking during certain hours on certain village streets
    (                                                                   $ 30.00
    6-6-9)   
3. Reserved.
4. Violations with respect to the regulation and licensing of dogs, cats and
animals:
    Failing to obtain rabies inoculation for the current                $ 30.00
    period for a dog or cat over 4 months of age (5-6A-4A)   
    Permitting a dog or cat to run at large or on property
    other than that of the owner (                                      30.00
    5-6A-3)   
    Permitting a dog or cat to run at large a second time
    within a 12 month period (                                          50.00
    5-6A-3)   
    Permitting a dog or cat to run at large a third or
    subsequent time within a 12 month period (                          100.00
    5-6A-3)   
    Housing, keeping or maintaining within a single                      
    dwelling unit, more than 3 dogs or 3 cats, or                        
    any combination thereof, over the age of 4 months (                 30.00
    5-6A-2)   
    Unauthorized killing of animal (                                    50.00
    5-6-4)   
5. Violations with respect to regulation of unsanitary deposits or dumping,
collection or the placement of waste containers, landscape waste units,
landscape waste toters or recyclable materials:
    Permitting the storage of or storing of any combustible              
    refuse, landscape waste material, or recyclable material             
    in such a way as to create a fire hazard (4-2-5C)                $ 50.00
    Unsanitary deposits (4-2-5D)                                     50.00
    Placing of waste containers, landscape waste unit                    
    or landscape waste toter at the curb or parkway                      
    sooner than 3:00 P.M. on the date prior to scheduled                 
    collection or failure to remove containers from the                  
    curb or parkway prior to 8:00 P.M. on the date of                    
    scheduled collection (4-2-2-1B)                                  10.00
    Violation of subsection                                             100.00
    4-2-3B2 of this code   
    Violation of subsection 4-2A-5-2D of this code                   30.00
6. Violations with respect to nuisances:
    Any nuisance violation as defined by this code (                    30.00
    4-1-1)   
7. Violations with respect to bicycle equipment:
    Failure to equip with a brake which will adequately                  
    control movement of and stop and hold such                           
    bicycle (6-9-2A2)                                                5.00
    Failure to equip with a lamp on the front emitting                   
    a white light visible from a distance of at least                    
    500 feet to the front and a red reflector on the                     
    rear visible from all distances from 100 feet to                     
    600 feet (6-9-2A1)                                               5.00
8. Violations with respect to bicycle operation regulations:
    Failure to obey official traffic signals, signs or                  10.00
    other control devices (6-9-1B)   
    Failure to ride other than upon or astride a perma-                 5.00
    nent and regular seat attached thereto (6-9-1D1)   
    Carrying more persons at one time than the number                   5.00
    for which it is designed and equipped (6-9-1D2)   
    Operating bicycle at a speed greater than is reason-                 
    able and prudent under the conditions then                           
    existing (6-9-1E)                                                10.00
    Failure to operate a bicycle upon a roadway as                       
    near to the right side of the roadway as                             
    practicable (6-9-1F)                                             10.00
    Failure to exercise due care when passing a standing                10.00
    vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction (6-9-1F)   
    Failure to yield right-of-way to pedestrians approaching            10.00
    on the sidewalk or sidewalk area (6-9-1G)   
    Failure to yield the right-of-way to vehicles approaching           10.00
    on the roadway when entering the roadway (6-9-1G)   
    Attaching bicycle or himself/herself to any vehicle                 10.00
    upon a roadway (6-9-1I)   
    Failure to ride single file upon a roadway (6-9-1K)              5.00
    Operating a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business               5.00
    district (6-9-1J1)   
    Operating a bicycle while carrying packages, bundles                 
    or articles which prevent the driver from keeping                    
    both hands upon the handlebars (6-9-1L)                          5.00
    Failure to park upon the roadway against the curb,                   
    upon a sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle,                    
    against a building or curb in such manner as to                      
    afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic (6-9-1H)      5.00
9. Violations with respect to the placement of addresses on houses, buildings
and structures:
    Failure of the owner or occupant to have placed                      
    upon every house, building or structure, so as                       
    to be clearly visible from the street, figures                       
    showing the number of the house, building or                         
    structure (                                                         $ 30.00
    8-1A-15)   
10. Violations with respect to public sidewalks, public streets and public
ways:
    Depositing on public sidewalks or public streets                     
    snow which accumulates upon and is removed from                      
    any adjacent private property or from the area                       
    between the lot line and curb line of the street (7-1-1B)        $ 30.00
    Depositing harmful materials on streets/public rights-of-way (7-1-  30.00
    1A)   
    Failing to purchase permit for work on public property (7-1-2A)   35.00
       plus cost of permit
    Prohibited species of vegetation (                                  $ 30.00
    7-4-4)   
    Failure to prevent interference of trees or
    shrubbery (                                                         30.00
    7-4-6)   
    Failure to remove diseased, dead, violating                         30.00
    vegetation (4-1-1P)   
    Failure to provide proper barricades (7-1-3C and/or 8-1A-7C)     50.00
11. Violations with respect to the destruction of noxious and improper growths
of weeds:
    Failure of owners of land within the Village limits                  
    upon which noxious weeds are found growing to                        
    destroy the noxious weeds before they reach a                        
    seed bearing stage (4-3-2A1)                                     $ 30.00
    Failure of owners of land within the Village limits                  
    upon which improper growths of weeds or grasses                      
    are found growing to destroy such improper growths                   
    of weeds or grasses (4-3-2A2)                                    30.00
12. Failure to assist police:
    Any person who shall refuse to give aid and assis-                  30.00
    tance to a requesting police officer (5-1-8A)   
13. Violations with respect to the construction of buildings:
    Failing to purchase a building permit (8-1A-9A)   35.00
       plus cost of license or permit
    Failing to comply with construction hours (
    8-1A-16):
     For a first offense                                             $150.00
     For a second offense                                            250.00
     For a third or subsequent offense                               350.00
14. Violations with respect to certain licenses or permits:
    Failing to purchase a business license or permit (
    3-1-3)   50.00
       plus cost of license or permit
    Failure to purchase a peddler license (
    3-5A-2) or
    commercial solicitor certificate of registration
    (3-5B-3A)   $100.00
       plus cost of license or certificate of registration
15. Violations with respect to certain uses of vehicles:
    Use of vehicle for advertising (6-4-17B)                         $ 30.00
    Violation - mandatory seat belt usage (                             30.00
    6-8-9)   
    Unlawful riding on a vehicle not designated or                      50.00
    intended for the use of passengers (6-4-17A)   
    A person or rider clinging to a moving vehicle or                    
    knowingly allowing a person or rider to attach                       
    himself to a moving vehicle (6-4-17C)                            75.00
16. Violations with respect to zoning:
    Failing to purchase fence permit (
    9-12-3)   35.00
       plus cost of permit
    Failing to properly construct, maintain fences (9-12-3C)         $ 30.00
    Failing to purchase sign permit (
    9-11-2)   35.00
       plus cost of permit
    Violation of general provisions relating to signs                    
    with respect to signs located on property zoned                      
    for single-family residential use (9-11-7A1)                     $ 30.00
    Conducting prohibited home occupations (                            30.00
    9-5-3)   
    Parking of commercial vehicle in residential district (9-10-2K1)  30.00
    Parking in residential districts of recreational vehicles,
    boats, off road vehicles, personal watercrafts, and                 30.00
    trailers (9-5-1C)   
    Prohibited signs (9-11-3D,H,J,K,L)                               30.00
    General standards (9-11-4B,E,F)                                  30.00
    Temporary signs (9-11-10B,C,E,F)                                 30.00
17. Violations with respect to certain vehicle equipment, vehicle loads and
equipment:
    Lamps or flags on projecting loads (                                $ 30.00
    6-8-3-4)   
    Spot lamps and auxiliary driving lamps (                            30.00
    6-8-3-3)   
    Signal lamps and signal devices (                                   30.00
    6-8-3-5)   
    Additional lighting equipment (                                     30.00
    6-8-3-7)   
    Use of headlamps (                                                  30.00
    6-8-3-9)   
    Number of driving lamps required or permitted (                     30.00
    6-8-3-8)   
    Brake equipment required (                                          30.00
    6-8-4)   
    Horns and warning devices (                                         30.00
    6-8-5)   
    Mufflers, prevention of noise (                                     30.00
    6-8-6)   
    Mirrors (                                                           30.00
    6-8-7)   
    Windshields to be unobstructed and equipped
    with wipers (                                                       30.00
    6-8-2)   
    Tire equipment (                                                    30.00
    6-8-8)   
    Spilling loads on highways (6-8A-7B)                             30.00
    When signal required (                                              30.00
    6-4-4)   
    Signals by hands or arms or signal device (6-4-4B)               30.00
    Turn signal lamps and devices required (6-8-3-5B)                30.00
    Lights required generally (                                         30.00
    6-8-3-1)   
18. Violations with respect to traffic control agreements:
    Any regulation imposed pursuant to provisions of                    30.00
    traffic control agreements (6-2-9B)   
19. Violations with respect to possession and/or purchase of tobacco products
by a minor, as defined herein:
    Sale or delivery to minors, under age twenty-one (21) (3-8-6A)      $100.00
    Purchase by minors, under age twenty-one (21) (3-8-6C)              50.00
    Possession by minors, under age eighteen (18) (3-8-6D)              30.00
20. Violations with respect to the possession or sale of alcoholic liquor to a
person under twenty one (21) years of age:
    Possession by minors (3-3-22A1)                                  $ 50.00
    Sale or delivery to minors (3-3-21C)                             100.00
21. Violations with respect to automatic protection and signaling devices:
    Permit required (5-2-2A)                                         50.00
    Charges for failure to pay false alarms (5-2-8B)                 50.00
22. Violations with respect to the use of fire hydrants (
7-5B-7):
    For a first offense                                              250.00
    For a second offense                                             500.00
    For a third or subsequent offense                                750.00
23. Violations with respect to water conservation measures (
7-5B-10):
    For a first offense                                              50.00
    For a second offense                                             125.00
    For a third or subsequent offense                                500.00
24. Violations with respect to curfew regulations:
    Curfew violations (                                                 75.00
    5-7A-1)   
25. Violations with respect to the regulation of open burning (
    4-6-2):
    For a first offense                                              50.00
    For a second offense                                             100.00
    For a third or subsequent offense                                200.00
26. Violations with respect to possession and/or public use of
    cannabis:
    Possession by minors, under age twenty-one (21) (5-7C-1)            100.00
    Improper possession/storage of cannabis during transportation       100.00
    Public use of cannabis (5-7C-1)                                     100.00
 
   H.   In the event that payment is not made within the time prescribed in the
final notice, and a notice to appear has been served and a complaint filed in
the 18th Judicial Circuit Court of DuPage County, payment of any fine and costs
shall be in such amounts as may be determined and established by the court, but
in no case shall the fine be less than the amount prescribed in subsection G of
this section. (1976 Code §13-1)
   I.   Except as otherwise provided for in this section, the sum of fifteen
dollars ($15.00) shall be added to the amount necessary to settle any violation
committed for a second time within the previous twelve (12) calendar months and
the sum of thirty dollars ($30.00) shall be added to the amount necessary to
settle any violation committed for a third time within the previous twelve (12)
calendar months.
   J.   Any individual authorized to issue parking, standing or compliance
violation notices shall, instead of issuing said violation notice, file a
complaint in court or, in lieu thereof, issue a citation as otherwise provided
in this Code. (Ord. 93-03, 1-14-1993; amd. Ord. 96-26, 6-13-1996; Ord. 2004-11,
4-1-2004; amd. Ord. 2004-30, 5-20-2004; Ord. 2005-26, 4-21-2005; Ord. 2005-35,
5-19-2005; Ord. 2005-47, 8-18-2005; Ord. 2006-16, 4-20-2006; Ord. 2006-43, 8-3-
2006; Ord. 2007-16, 4-5-2007; Ord. 2009-56, 11-19-2009; Ord. 2010-25, 5-6-2010;
Ord. 2010-43, 8-19-2010; Ord. 2011-45, 9-8-2011; Ord. 2012-45, 8-23-2012; Ord.
2017-51, 9-21-2017; Ord. 2018-3, 3-15-2018; Ord. 2020-6, 2-6-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. The numbers in parentheses in this schedule represent the section or
  subsection of this code where regulations are set forth.
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this chapter shall be applicable to every section of this Code the
same as though it were a part of each and every separate section. Any person
convicted of a violation of any section of this Code where any duty is
prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing
nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty
or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this Code. (1991 Code; amd. Ord. 2001-14, 4-26-2001)
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the Prosecuting Officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1991 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1991 Code)
1-4-5: VILLAGE JAIL:
   A.   Jail Established: The place in the Village previously established and
used as the jail, or any other place which may hereafter be established by the
Board of Trustees for that purpose, is hereby declared to be the jail. (1976
Code §11-13)
   B.   Keeper And Custodian Of Jail: The Chief of Police shall be the keeper
of the jail, and shall have custody of all persons confined therein and of all
property pertaining thereto. (1976 Code §11-14)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Compensation
1-5-2: Meetings Of The Board
1-5-3: Rules And Order Of Business
1-5-4: Approval Of Bills (Rep. by Ord. 2018-7, 9-20-2018)
1-5-5: Speaking At Meetings
1-5-6: Recording At Meetings
1-5-7: Temporary Unavailability Or Incapacity Of Mayor
1-5-1: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Mayor:
      1.   Compensation 1 : The Mayor shall receive as compensation the sum of
nine thousand six hundred dollars ($9,600.00) annually, payable in equal
monthly installments of eight hundred dollars ($800.00). Said amount shall be
deemed to include compensation to the Mayor for acting in his or her capacity
as Local Liquor Control Commissioner 2 . (Ord. 2008-47, 10-16-2008)
      2.   Expenses: The Mayor shall be entitled to reimbursement by the
Village for expenses incurred by him/her in attending legal meetings of the
Board of Trustees and for such other expenses as may be incurred by the Mayor
when the same is incurred in the course of the performances of his/her duties
as Mayor. (1991 Code)
   B.   Trustees:
      1.   Compensation 3 : Each Village Trustee shall receive as compensation
the sum of four thousand eight hundred dollars ($4,800.00) annually, payable in
equal monthly installments of four hundred dollars ($400.00). (Ord. 2008-47,
10-16-2008)
      2.   Expenses: Each Trustee shall be entitled to reimbursement by the
Village for expenses incurred by him or her in attending legal meetings of the
Board of Trustees and for such other expenses as may be incurred by said
Trustee when the same is incurred in the course of the performance of his or
her duties as a Trustee.
      3.   Absences: Compensation as provided in this section will be paid
monthly regardless of the number of times a Trustee is absent from legal
meetings of the Village, unless the Board of Trustees shall by ordinance
provide otherwise. (1976 Code §2-51)
 
Notes
  1. The rates of compensation provided for by this subsection shall be
  effective May 1, 2009. The compensation to be paid such elected officers
  shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Municipal
1 Code, in that such compensation shall only be paid to such officers elected
  at the next general Municipal election to be held in April 2009. Those
  officers not eligible to receive the compensation provided for in this
  subsection during their current term of office shall, pursuant to statute,
  continue to receive the compensation provided for prior to May 1, 2009.
2 2. See subsection
  3-3-3B of this Code.
  3. The rates of compensation provided for by this subsection shall be
  effective May 1, 2009. The compensation to be paid such elected officers
  shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Municipal
3 Code, in that such compensation shall only be paid to such officers elected
  at the next general Municipal election to be held in April 2009. Those
  officers not eligible to receive the compensation provided for in this
  subsection during their current term of office shall, pursuant to statute,
  continue to receive the compensation provided for prior to May 1, 2009.
1-5-2: MEETINGS OF THE BOARD:
   A.   Regular Meetings:
      1.   The regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held the
first and third Thursdays of each month beginning at seven o’clock (7:00) P.M.
      2.   The regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held in the
boardroom of the Village Hall, unless otherwise ordered by the Board. (Ord.
2014-47, 8-14-2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
   B.   Special Meetings: Upon the request of the Mayor, or of three (3)
Trustees, the Village Clerk shall issue a written or printed call for a special
meeting, at least twenty four (24) hours previous thereto, to all members of
the Board when called by the Mayor and to the members of the Board and the
Mayor when called by three (3) Trustees. The call shall state the time and
place of holding such special meeting and the purpose for which it is called.
Such notice shall be served by any authorized person by delivering to and
leaving with each of the persons required to be notified personally at their
place of residence, abode or business address, a correct copy of same;
provided, such special meeting may be called at any previous regular meeting by
a majority vote of the Board without further notice. (1976 Code §2-54; amd.
1991 Code)
   C.   Open To The Public: All meetings of the Mayor and Board of Trustees of
the Village shall be conducted in conformance with the requirements of 5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq., "an Act in relation to meetings"
(commonly referred to as the "Open Meetings Act").
   D.   Closed Meetings: It is expressly declared to be the legislative intent
and policy of the Mayor and Village Board of Trustees that, to the extent that
any meeting is permitted to be closed pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
120/1 et seq., "an Act in relation to meetings", the specific subject matter of
the deliberations which take place in any such closed meeting shall not be
disclosed to nor discussed with any person who was not entitled to attend such
closed meeting.
Any member of the Village Board found to have violated the provisions contained
in this subsection shall be subject to censure by the vote of a majority of the
Corporate Authorities then holding office.
   E.   Public Inspection Of Minutes: The minutes of the meetings open to the
public shall be available for public inspection within seven (7) days of the
approval of such minutes by the Mayor and Board of Trustees. Minutes of
meetings closed to the public shall be available for inspection only after the
Mayor and Board of Trustees determine that it is no longer necessary to protect
the public interest or the privacy of an individual by keeping any such minutes
confidential. (1976 Code §2-52)
   F.   Minutes And Recording Of Closed Meetings:
      1.   A verbatim record shall be kept of all meetings of the Village Board
of Trustees of the Village of Woodridge ("Corporate Authorities") and of all
meetings of any other boards, commissions or other subsidiary "public body" of
the Village of Woodridge 1  which are closed to the public. The verbatim record
shall be in the form of an audio or video recording. In addition, written
minutes shall be kept of all closed meetings in the manner required by the
Illinois Open Meetings Act. Minutes of closed meetings shall be placed before
the Corporate Authorities or the subsidiary public body, as the case may be,
for approval as to form and content as soon as practicable, but no later than
the second subsequent regularly scheduled meeting of that meeting body,
following the closed meeting. The Village Clerk, or his/her designee, shall
securely maintain, in Village Hall, the verbatim recordings and minutes of all
closed sessions of the Corporate Authorities and all subsidiary public bodies
of the Village.
      2.   At the beginning of each closed session, those present shall
identify themselves by voice for the audio recording. If the meeting is video
recorded, those present shall individually appear on camera and identify
themselves by voice at the beginning of the meeting. The presiding officer
shall also announce the times the meeting commences and ends at appropriate
points on the recording.
      3.   Semiannually, at a regular Board meeting of the Corporate
Authorities, in January and July, the agenda shall include an item that
addresses a review of the minutes of all closed sessions and makes a
determination regarding which minutes, or portions thereof, may and may not be
released for public inspection. Minutes shall not be released unless the
Corporate Authorities of the Village of Woodridge find that it is no longer
necessary to keep them confidential to protect the public interest or to
protect the privacy of an individual. As to any minutes, or portions thereof,
not released, the Corporate Authorities of the Village of Woodridge shall find
that the need for confidentiality still exists as to those minutes, or portions
thereof. The Corporate Authorities may require the Village Attorney's opinion
regarding the release or nonrelease of the respective minutes, as well as which
minutes should be kept closed indefinitely.
      4.   Semiannually, at a regular meeting of the Corporate Authorities, the
agenda shall include the following item: "Authorization for destruction of
verbatim recordings of closed sessions". The Village Clerk shall present a list
to the Corporate Authorities of the dates of closed sessions where:
         a.   A verbatim recording exists,
         b.   The Corporate Authorities have approved the minutes of the closed
meeting, regardless of whether the minutes have been released for public
inspection, and
         c.   At least eighteen (18) months have passed since the date of the
closed meeting.
The Corporate Authorities shall consider whether to authorize destruction of
the verbatim recordings of those meetings. When ordered by the Corporate
Authorities, the Village Clerk shall destroy the recording of that closed
meeting in a suitable manner.
      5.   Unless the Board of Trustees of the Village of Woodridge has
determined that a recording no longer requires confidential treatment, or
otherwise consents to disclosure, the verbatim recordings of closed meetings
made pursuant to subsection F1 of this section shall not be open for public
inspection or subject to discovery in any administrative or judicial proceeding
other than one brought to enforce the provisions of the Open Meetings Act. In a
civil action brought to enforce the provisions of the Open Meetings Act, a
recording will be made available to the court for in camera examination for the
purpose of determining whether a violation of the Open Meetings Act exists. In
the case of a criminal proceeding, a recording will be made available to the
court for in camera examination for the purpose of determining what portion, if
any, must be made available to the parties for use as evidence in the
prosecution.
      6.   Every subsidiary public body of the Village that conducts closed
meetings shall comply with the review procedures set forth in subsections F3
through F5 of this section. (Ord. 2013-46, 9-26-2013; amd. Ord. 2020-37,12-3-
2020)
 
Notes
1 1. As defined by the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2 et seq.
1-5-3: RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Order Of Business: From time to time, the Mayor shall, with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees, propose a form of an agenda which shall
establish the order of business to be considered by the Board of Trustees.
(1976 Code §2-56)
   B.   Rules:
      1.   Quorum: Three (3) Village Trustees and the Mayor or four (4)
Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business. A smaller number of the
Board, however, may adjourn from time to time and may compel the attendance of
absentees. (1976 Code §2-55)
      2.   Rules Of Order: The Mayor shall decide all questions of order, and
in all cases not specifically provided for by law or ordinance, the Board shall
be guided by parliamentary law as laid down in "Robert's Rules of Order". (1976
Code §2-62)
      3.   Voting Requirements:
         a.   In all cases of the passage of an ordinance, the creation of a
liability against the Village, the expenditure or appropriation of its monies,
or at the request of any member, the yeas and nays shall be taken and the
result shall be recorded in the minutes of the Board. The concurrence of a
majority of the elected members of the Board shall be necessary to the passage
of any such ordinance, resolution or appropriation. (1976 Code §2-57)
         b.   When a question is stated from the Chair, every member who shall
be present shall vote thereon, unless excused by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees, or unless he is personally or directly interested in the question
before the Board. (1976 Code §2-59)
      4.   Record Of Transactions: In all cases where an ordinance, resolution,
amendment or motion shall be a matter of record in the minutes of the Board,
the name of the member offering or making the same shall be entered thereon.
(1976 Code §2-58)
      5.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of procedure for the Board, other
than those prescribed by statute, may be suspended at any time by the consent
of a majority of the members present at any meeting. (1976 Code §2-63)
      6.   Censuring; Expelling A Member: Any member acting or appearing in a
disgraceful manner, or using violent and insulting language to or about any
member of the Board of Trustees, or who does not obey the orders of the Chair,
shall, on motion, be censured by a majority vote of the members present, or
expelled by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all members elected. (1976 Code §2-61)
1-5-4: APPROVAL OF BILLS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2018-7, 9-20-2018)
1-5-5: SPEAKING AT MEETINGS:
In accordance with the Open Meetings Act 1 , the following procedures are
established for when a member of the public wishes to speak at an open meeting.
Members of the public have no right to attend or speak at closed meetings.
These procedures apply to all open meetings of the Corporate Authorities of the
Village, including regular, rescheduled or special meetings and study/workshop
sessions.
   A.   Any individual seeking to address a public official at an open meeting
shall comply with the following:
      1.   All speakers shall provide their name before providing other
comments. If the Village Clerk provides a sign-in sheet, each person wishing to
speak shall sign in before commenting. Speakers are requested to, but are not
required to, provide his or her address.
      2.   All speakers shall address their comments to the Mayor.
      3.   Comments shall be limited to three (3) minutes per person per topic.
If the speaker requires an interpreter, either because of his/her limited
English proficiency or because of a disability, he/she shall be allowed no less
than six (6) minutes.
      4.   Comments shall be made in a civil manner, and comments that are
personally condescending, abusive or slanderous will not be permitted. Behavior
that is disruptive, unruly or threatening will not be permitted.
      5.   The public comment section of the meeting allows comments on any
matter on the agenda; provided, however, that the Board shall not take action
on a matter raised in the public comment portion of the meeting unless that
matter is otherwise on the agenda.
      6.   The Mayor has the authority to regulate the conduct of speakers and
to waive subsection A3 of this section if, in his or her sole discretion, a
waiver is appropriate. The Mayor also has the authority to preserve order at
all meetings and to cause the removal of any person who fails to comply with
these rules of procedure from the meeting. (Ord. 2018-43, 11-1-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1, et seq.
1-5-6: RECORDING AT MEETINGS:
In accordance with the Open Meetings Act 1 , the following procedures are
established for when a member of the public wishes to record an open meeting.
Members of the public have no right to attend or record at closed meetings.
These procedures apply to all open meetings of the Corporate Authorities of the
Village, including regular, rescheduled or special meetings and study/workshop
sessions.
   A.   Any individual seeking to record an open meeting shall comply with the
following:
      1.   No flashbulbs, floodlights or similar lighting may be used during
meetings of the Corporate Authorities, without the prior approval of the
Corporate Authorities. No person recording a meeting may disrupt a meeting or
interfere with the orderly communication among or the unobstructed vision of
the participants in the meeting, or of the general public in attendance.
      2.   Photographic and television equipment may be restricted by the Mayor
to designated areas of the room in which a meeting is being conducted, but such
area must have a clear view of the proceedings.
      3.   When the Mayor receives a request to suspend video recording from an
individual who is providing public comment or testimony to the Village Board,
members of the public in attendance who are video recording the meeting shall
immediately cease recording until such time as the Mayor has announced that the
recording may resume.
      4.   Whenever the Board sits as a tribunal or conducts a hearing at which
witnesses are to testify, and a witness asserts the right under State or
Federal law, as may now or hereafter be applicable, to refuse to testify if the
proceedings are to be broadcast, televised or photographed, the Mayor shall
direct that all such photographing and recording cease during the testimony of
the witness, and the Mayor shall enforce such order by all lawful means.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this rule shall not be construed to extend the
right to refuse to testify at any meeting not subject to the provisions of
section 8-701 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1 . (Ord. 2018-43, 11-1-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1, et seq.
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/8-701.
1-5-7: TEMPORARY UNAVAILABILITY OR INCAPACITY OF MAYOR.
   A.   If the Mayor is temporarily absent due to unavailability or an
incapacity to perform official duties, but said unavailability or incapacity
does not create a vacancy in the office, the Trustee who has the longest term
of continual service as a Trustee shall be designated to act as Mayor pro tem.
The Mayor pro tem, during this absence or incapacity, shall perform the duties
and possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor, but shall not be entitled
to vote both as Mayor pro tem and as Trustee.
   B.   In the absence of the Mayor and Mayor pro tem, the corporate
authorities may elect one of their members to act as a temporary chairman. The
temporary chairman shall have only the powers of a presiding officer and a
right to vote only in the capacity as a Trustee on any ordinance, resolution,
or motion. (Ord. 2021-4, 3-4-2021)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Terms Of Elected Officials
1-6-2: Bond Requirements
1-6-1: TERMS OF ELECTED OFFICIALS:
The terms of all newly elected officers shall commence immediately upon their
inauguration. The inauguration of all newly elected village officers shall take
place no later than the first regular or special meeting of the corporate
authorities in the month of May following any such election. (Ord. 93-14, 4-8-
1993)
1-6-2: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Generally: Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices,
all village officers shall execute a bond, with security, to be approved by the
mayor and board of trustees. The bond shall be payable to the village in
whatever penal sum may be directed by resolution, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of the office and the payment of all money received
by such officer, according to the law and also the ordinances of the village.
Such bond may provide that the obligation of the sureties shall not extend to
any loss sustained by the insolvency, failure or closing of any bank organized
and operating either under the laws of the state of Illinois or the United
States wherein such officer has placed funds in his custody, if the bank has
been approved by the mayor and board of trustees as a depository for these
funds. All bonds shall be filed with the village clerk. The bond of the village
clerk shall be filed with the director of finance. (1976 Code §2-42; amd. 1991
Code)
   B.   Mayor And Director Of Finance: In no case, however, shall the mayor's
bond be fixed at less than three thousand dollars ($3,000.00); the director of
finance's bond shall be an amount of money that is not less than three (3)
times the latest federal census population or any subsequent census figure used
for motor fuel tax purposes. (1976 Code §2-42)
   C.   Satisfaction Of Bond Requirements By IRMA Coverage: The village is
currently a member of a self-insurance pool known as the intergovernmental risk
management agency (IRMA). IRMA currently provides public officials fidelity,
crime and honesty (dishonesty) coverages equivalent to or in excess of the
bonding requirements set forth above in this section. For so long as IRMA
provides such coverages to the village equivalent to or in excess of the
requirements set forth above in this section, the bonding requirements of this
section shall be deemed satisfied. (Ord. 93-30, 6-10-1993)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Powers And Duties
1-6A-2: Salary
1-6A-3: Deputy Clerk
1-6A-1: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The village clerk shall have all of the powers and shall perform all of the
duties now and hereafter provided by law and by ordinance. In particular, the
village clerk shall:
   A.   Keep his office at the place appointed by the mayor and board of
trustees.
   B.   Attend all meetings of the mayor and board of trustees and take minutes
of all of its proceedings.
   C.   Record such minutes, together with all ordinances passed by the board
of trustees, in books to be kept for that purpose.
   D.   Publish all proceedings of the board of trustees and all ordinances
required by law to be published.
   E.   Serve all notices, either by personal service, by publication or by
posting, required by law, by the board of trustees or the mayor to be served,
unless such notices are expressly ordered to be served by some other person.
   F.   Keep all original documents relating to all warrants drawn on the
director of finance, stating the date, number and amount thereof, to whom
payable and against what fund drawn.
   G.   File all ordinances, communications, receipts and other documents
required to be filed and arrange the same in systematic order for ready
reference.
   H.   Keep the corporate seal of the village and affix the same to all papers
as required.
   I.   Be the custodian and keeper of all the official books, records,
ordinances and papers of the village, except as otherwise may be provided by
law or ordinance.
   J.   Make copies of all papers in his office and transcripts from journals
and other records and files of his office certified under the corporate seal
for use as evidence when required. (1976 Code §2-71)
   K.   File or cause to be filed a certified copy of each tax levy ordinance
with the proper authorities of DuPage and Will Counties, Illinois, within the
time required by law. (1976 Code §2-71; amd. 1991 Code)
   L.   Do such further acts and deeds and perform such duties and
responsibilities as shall be required by law or by ordinance. (1976 Code §2-71)
1-6A-2: SALARY 1 :
The village clerk shall receive as compensation the sum of four thousand eight
hundred dollars ($4,800.00) annually, payable in equal monthly installments of
four hundred dollars ($400.00). In addition, the village clerk shall be
entitled to reimbursement by the village for expenses incurred in attending
legal meetings of the board of trustees and for such other expenses as may be
incurred in the course of the performance of the duties of village clerk. (Ord.
2008-47, 10-16-2008)
 
Notes
  1. The rates of compensation provided for by this section shall be effective
  May 1, 2009. The compensation to be paid such elected officers shall be paid
  in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois municipal code, in that
1 such compensation shall only be paid to such officers elected at the next
  general municipal election to be held in April 2009. Those officers not
  eligible to receive the compensation provided for in this section during
  their current term of office shall, pursuant to statute, continue to receive
  the compensation provided for prior to May 1, 2009.
1-6A-3: DEPUTY CLERK:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the office of
deputy clerk. The village clerk is authorized to appoint by and with the advice
and consent of the board of trustees a deputy clerk who shall have the power
and duty to execute all documents required by any law or ordinance to be
executed by the clerk and affix the seal of the village thereto whenever
required.
   B.   Signature: When signing any document, the deputy clerk shall sign the
name of the village clerk followed by the word "By" and the deputy clerk's own
name and the words "Deputy Clerk".
   C.   Powers And Duties; Limitations: The deputy clerk shall have the
authority and power herein described and such further power and authority as
may be provided by statute.
The powers and duties herein described shall be exercised by such deputy clerk
only in the absence of the village clerk from his office in the village hall
and only when either written direction has been given by the village clerk to
exercise such power, or the village board has determined by resolution that the
village clerk is temporarily or permanently incapacitated to perform such
function. (1976 Code §2-73)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Office Created; Appointment; Functions
1-6B-2: Qualifications
1-6B-3: Oath Of Office
1-6B-4: Removal From Office; Filling Vacancy
1-6B-5: Powers And Duties
1-6B-6: Compensation
1-6B-7: Assistant Village Administrator
1-6B-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; FUNCTIONS:
There is hereby created the office of village administrator, an executive
office of the village. (1976 Code §2-64)
The village administrator shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees and shall be the direct representative of the
corporate authorities in the transaction of all village business and in all
matters concerning the citizens of the village. He shall have such specific
duties as are assigned to him from time to time by the corporate authorities.
(1976 Code §2-65)
1-6B-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The village administrator shall be chosen solely on the basis of his executive
and administrative qualifications with special reference to his actual
experience in or his knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the duties of
his office hereinafter set forth. The administrator shall reside within the
village, but with satisfactory explanation and with the approval of the mayor
and the board of trustees, the administrator may live outside of Woodridge. No
village elected official shall receive such appointment during the term for
which he shall have been elected nor within one year after the expiration of
his term. (1976 Code §2-66)
1-6B-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
Before taking office, the village administrator shall take and subscribe to the
oath prescribed in paragraph 5/3-14-3 of the Illinois municipal code 1 , which
oath shall be filed in the office of the village clerk. (1976 Code §2-69)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS.
1-6B-4: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; FILLING VACANCY:
The village administrator may be removed at any time by a majority vote of the
corporate authorities then in office. In the event the village administrator
ceases to perform the duties of or to hold his office by reason of death,
permanent physical or mental disability, conviction of a disqualifying crime,
or dismissal from or abandonment of office, the mayor, with the consent of the
board of trustees, may appoint a successor who shall succeed to the office of
village administrator under the provisions and with the duties, powers and
obligations herein provided. (1976 Code §2-67)
1-6B-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The village administrator shall supervise and coordinate the work of all
departments of the village that are created by the mayor and board of trustees.
He shall be the chief administrative officer of the village and to that end
shall have power and shall be required to:
   A.   Enforce all the laws and ordinances of the village.
   B.   Appoint on the basis of merit and fitness and remove all managers of
departments, subject to the concurrence of the mayor and board of trustees. He
shall have supervisory authority over all managers of departments. (1976 Code
§2-70)
   C.   Prepare and submit to the board of trustees before the annual budget
ordinance is prepared, a report of his estimate of the funds necessary to
defray the expenses of the village during the current fiscal year. In such
report, he shall classify and detail the purposes and objects of expenditures,
the aggregate income of the preceding fiscal year, the village liabilities and
such other information as shall be necessary to assist the corporate
authorities in adopting a budget ordinance.
For the purpose of preparing the budget estimate provided for above, the
administrator shall be authorized to require all officers and heads of
departments to submit statements of the condition and expense of their
respective offices and departments, a description of proposed village
improvements and the probable cost thereof, a description of all unperformed
contracts, and a statement of the amounts of all unexpended appropriations of
the preceding year. (Ord. 2011-06, 3-24-2011)
   D.   Attend all meetings of the board of trustees with the right to take
part in the discussions, but with no right to vote.
   E.   Recommend to the board of trustees for adoption such measures as he may
deem necessary or expedient.
   F.   Enforce the faithful performance of all contracts or public utility
franchises so that the village and its inhabitants will receive full benefits
thereunder. (1976 Code §2-70)
   G.   Make, in the ordinary course of business, all purchases 1  of services,
equipment, material and supplies necessary for the village as provided for in
the annual budget ordinance; provided, that on purchases in excess of twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00), he shall first procure the approval of the
corporate authorities before making such purchases, and in all cases shall
comply with the provisions of this code as to solicitation of bids and shall
submit all expenditures for payment to the corporate authorities. (1976 Code
§2-70; amd. Ord. 89-62, 11-9-1989; Ord. 2006-38, 6-29-2006; Ord. 2011-06, 3-24-
2011)
   H.   Cause to be prepared and submitted to the board of trustees each month
a statement of the financial condition of the village as of the end of the
preceding month.
   I.   Have and exercise the power, authority and duties of any manager or
director of a department or division of the village during the time when the
office of any such department or division shall be vacant or no person shall
have been appointed thereto.
   J.   Keep or cause to be kept a current inventory showing all real and
personal property of the village and the location of such property. He shall be
responsible for the care and custody of all such property including equipment,
buildings, parks and all such property which is not by law assigned to some
other office or body for care and control. (1976 Code §2-70)
   K.   Except for those employees holding positions subject to the regulations
of the board of police commissioners 2 , who are appointed by an elected
official, or who are appointed subject to subsection B of this section, the
village administrator shall have the sole and exclusive authority to appoint
and remove all employees of the village. All such appointments shall be made on
the basis of merit and fitness. (1976 Code §2-70; amd. Ord. 93-26, 5-27-1993)
   L.   Recommend the compensation of all appointive officers and employees not
otherwise provided for by statute or ordinance of the village.
   M.   Recommend to the mayor and board of trustees rules and regulations for
the conduct of the various departments of the village and the divisions
thereunder.
   N.   Recommend to the mayor and board of trustees the reorganization or
consolidation of the departments or divisions of the village.
   O.   Devote his entire time to the discharge of his duties.
   P.   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the statutes of the
state of Illinois, by this article or by any ordinance or resolution of the
corporate authorities. (1976 Code §2-70)
   Q.   Make the written determination required by 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/33E-9, when any change order or series of change orders authorize or
necessitate an increase or decrease in either the cost of a public contract by
a total of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or more or the time of completion
by a total of thirty (30) days or more. (Ord. 2011-34, 8-11-2011)
   R.   Execute, personally or through a designee, improvement agreements
whereby any person deposits a letter of credit, cash or other acceptable
security, to secure the completion and warranty of public and/or private
improvements, when required by this code in conjunction with property
development or building permit approvals. (Ord. 2014-44, 6-26-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-8-4 of this title.
2 2. See title 2, chapter 4 of this code.
1-6B-6: COMPENSATION:
The village administrator shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed
from time to time by the mayor and board of trustees. (1976 Code §2-68)
1-6B-7: ASSISTANT VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Position Described: The assistant village administrator is an exempt,
general management position, reporting directly to the village administrator
and responsible for assisting the village administrator in managing the day to
day functions of village government and the administration department.
   B.   Powers And Duties: Duties include:
      1.   Generally: Assist in the coordination and planning of village
operations with department managers, other governmental agencies and other
organizations; relieve village administrator of assigned duties and serve as
acting village administrator during his absence; direct and supervise the
completion of special projects as assigned by the village administrator;
supervise the tasks of the support staff for the administration department.
(1991 Code)
      2.   Personnel:
         a.   Direct the village's personnel management program, including
recruitment and promotion of village employees, excluding department managers,
enforcement of personnel rules and regulations and maintenance of all official
personnel records. Act as staff liaison to the board of police commissioners.
(1991 Code; amd. Ord. 93-26, 5-27-1993)
         b.   Maintain village's position classification and compensation plan
and prepare annual revisions; direct recruitment, selection and promotion
process for all employees; attend monthly employee advisory committee meetings.
         c.   Manage the preparation and revisions of employee performance
evaluation attachments by department managers; develop productivity measurement
program for administrator's review.
      3.   Purchases 1 :
         a.   Direct the village's purchasing program, as prescribed by this
code and supplemental management procedures; revise and approve specifications
as prepared by department managers; approve purchase of goods, services,
supplies and equipment necessary to village operations. (1991 Code)
         b.   Determine purchases of like type among village departments;
prepare specifications and contracts for the purchase of goods and services;
let bids, seek informed quotes and negotiate price agreements; review and
approve purchase requisitions for goods and services with value of less than
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00); make recommendations to the village board
for all purchases in excess of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00). (1991
Code; amd. Ord. 2006-38, 6-29-2006)
      4.   Insurance; Employee Safety:
         a.   Direct the village's insurance program, including loss prevention
program, and conduct investigations into the causes and prevention of
operational accidents as required; serve as the village's representative at the
board of directors' meetings of the intergovernmental risk management agency
(IRMA); serve as the village's representative on the board of directors of the
south central DuPage County benefit pool (SDCBP).
         b.   Prescribe and implement employee safety training; conduct
inspections of work areas and procedures in order to identify and eliminate
hazardous conditions; investigate and participate in the disposal of insurance
claims; attend monthly meetings of IRMA and follow through on IRMA policies and
procedures.
      5.   Public Functions:
         a.   Direct the preparation and distribution of official village
publications, including annual information book, the "Woodridge Weekly" and
press releases; answer verbal and written inquiries from individuals,
organizations and other inquiries; attend and coordinate village participation
in the annual Jubilee Festival and other similar community functions.
         b.   Follow through on resident requests/complaints for inquiries
filed with the administrator's office and resolve problems with department
managers; update the biweekly board request status report; prepare press
releases, the "Woodridge Weekly" and "Village Information Book".
      6.   Village Operations, Procedures, Policies:
         a.   Assist in the coordination and planning of data processing
operations for departments; review proposed purchases, coordination between
departments' computers and new computer applications; serve on the data
processing committee.
         b.   Review and recommend changes in present or proposed operating
procedures, village expenditures and programs; prepare and review operating
budgets; conduct studies and collect information concerning village operations,
procedures and policies.
         c.   Assist the village administrator in ensuring the timely and
efficient completion of objectives in each operating department; conduct
reviews of objectives; manage special projects as assigned by village
administrator.
      7.   Supervise Administrative Intern: Direct the training, development
and work assignments of the administrative intern. (1991 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-8-4 of this title.
ARTICLE C. LEGAL ADVISORS
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Independent Legal Counsel
1-6C-2: Independent Prosecutor
1-6C-1: INDEPENDENT LEGAL COUNSEL:
The Mayor and Board of Trustees, voting jointly, may employ a licensed Illinois
attorney or attorneys as an independent contractor or as independent
contractors to represent or advise the Village on such legal matters as the
Mayor and Board of Trustees shall determine. (Ord. 83-53, §12; amd. Ord. 94-22,
4-28-94)
1-6C-2: INDEPENDENT PROSECUTOR:
   A.   General Village Business: The Mayor and Board of Trustees, voting
jointly, may employ a licensed Illinois attorney or attorneys as an independent
contractor or as independent contractors to represent or advise the Village on
such prosecutions as the Mayor and Board of Trustees shall determine. (Ord. 83-
53, §12)
The terms and conditions of employment of such independent prosecutor employed
pursuant to this subsection shall be as set forth in a written contract of
employment entered into by and between the Village and said attorney or
attorneys. Compensation for services rendered by an independent prosecutor
shall be in accordance with the terms of said written contract of employment.
(Ord. 83-53, §12)
   B.   Matters of Board of Police Commissioners 1 : The Chief of Police, with
the consent of the Village Administrator, may employ a licensed Illinois
attorney or attorneys as independent contractor or as independent contractors
to render advice and conduct such prosecutions as the Chief of Police may
direct before the Board of Police Commissioners. (Ord. 83-53, §12; amd. Ord.
93-26, 5-27-93)
The terms and conditions of employment of any such independent counsel employed
pursuant to this subsection shall be as set forth in a written contract of
employment entered into by and between the Village and said attorney or
attorneys. Compensation for services rendered by any independent counsel shall
be in accordance with the terms of said written contract. (Ord. 83-53, §12)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 4 of this Code.
ARTICLE D. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Position Described
1-6D-2: Powers And Duties
1-6D-3: Personal Use Of Funds
1-6D-1: POSITION DESCRIBED:
The Director of Finance is an exempt position, reporting directly to the
Village Administrator and is responsible for both general financial management
of all Village operations and also for the day-to-day functional operation of
the Finance Department. (1991 Code)
1-6D-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The Director of Finance shall perform such duties and
functions as may be provided for in this Code, or as the Village Administrator
shall direct. In addition, the Director of Finance shall have the rights,
powers, privileges, authority and shall perform such duties as are authorized
and prescribed by the Statutes of the State of Illinois for the Offices of
Treasurer and Collector 1 . The Director of Finance shall also be the Village's
representative to the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund. (1976 Code §2-81;
amd. 1991 Code)
   B.   Receive Moneys; Books And Accounts: The Director of Finance shall
receive all money belonging to the Village, and shall keep the books and
accounts in such manner as to show with entire accuracy all monies received by
him, from whom and on what funds they shall have been received; all monies paid
out by him and on what fund they shall have been paid; and the same shall be
shown in such manner that such books may be readily understood and
investigated. His books and accounts shall at all times be open for examination
by any member of the Corporate Authorities. He shall keep a separate account of
each fund or appropriation, and the debits and credits belonging thereto.
   C.   Issue Receipts: He shall give every person paying money into the
Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment, and upon what
account paid. He shall file copies of these receipts with the Village Clerk
with his monthly reports. If he has in his possession money properly
appropriated to the payment of any warrant lawfully drawn upon him, he shall
pay the money specified in this warrant to the person designated by the same.
(1976 Code §2-83)
   D.   Monthly Statements; Payment Of Funds: No money shall be paid by the
Director of Finance upon any warrant, bond or coupon, except from the monies in
the particular fund or appropriation designated in such warrant, bond or
coupon, or upon which they have been drawn, nor shall any amount be transferred
by the Director of Finance from one fund to another after being received and
credited by him, nor appropriated to any other purpose than the one for which
it has been paid, except upon authorization by the Corporate Authorities. (1976
Code §2-88)
   E.   Reports Required: The Director of Finance shall report to the Corporate
Authorities, as often as they require, a full and detailed account of all
receipts and expenditures of the Village, as shown by his books, up to the time
of the report. He shall annually, within six (6) months of the close of the
fiscal year, make out and file with the Village Clerk a full and detailed
account of all receipts and expenditures and of all his transactions as
Director of Finance during the preceding fiscal year. He shall show in such
account the state of the Treasury at the close of the fiscal year, which
account the Village Clerk shall immediately cause to be published in a
newspaper published in the Village, or, if no newspaper is published therein,
then in a newspaper having a general circulation within the Village. (1976 Code
§2-87; amd. Ord. 2018-7, 9-20-2018)
   F.   Deposit Of Funds: The Director of Finance shall deposit the Village
funds in such depositories as may be from time to time designated by the
Corporate Authorities 2 . The Director of Finance shall, no later than forty
eight (48) hours after the receipt thereof, deposit into the properly
authorized bank account of the Village all monies collected by him from any
source whatsoever. (1976 Code §2-89.1)
   G.   Special Assessments: The Director of Finance shall keep an account of
each special assessment and each installment thereof under its general
description and number. All monies received on any special assessment and
installment thereof shall be held by the Director of Finance as a special fund
to be applied to the payment of the improvement for which the assessment was
made and such money shall be used for no other purpose whatsoever, except as
may have been provided by the ordinance authorizing the improvement. (1976 Code
§2-89)
   H.   Collection: The Director of Finance is authorized to submit any debt
due and owing the Village to a properly authorized and registered collection
agency for collection, in addition to any other means of collection or
enforcement of judgment authorized by law. For purposes of this subsection, the
term "debt" shall mean any fine or penalty remaining unpaid after the
exhaustion of any applicable administrative or judicial review procedures, or
any other unpaid fees or charges, including any delinquency or late payment
charges or penalties, due and owing to the Village pursuant to the provisions
of this Code. (Ord. 96-26, 6-13-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-10-1 et seq., and 65 ILCS 5/3-11-25 et seq., respectively.
2 1. See section
  1-8-1 of this title.
1-6D-3: PERSONAL USE OF FUNDS:
The Director of Finance shall keep all money belonging to the Village in his
custody separate and distinct from his own money, and he shall not use, either
directly or indirectly, the Village's money or warrants in his custody for his
own use and benefit, or that of any other person. (1976 Code §2-86)
ARTICLE E. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-6E-1: Position Described
1-6E-2: Powers And Duties
1-6E-1: POSITION DESCRIBED:
The director of public works is an exempt position, reporting directly to the
village administrator and responsible for the administration and direction of
the public works department. The director of public works coordinates all
functions of the public works department and formulates and prescribes work
methods and procedures to be followed by all personnel of the department. (1976
Code §2-96; amd. Ord. 2011-21, 5-12-2011)
1-6E-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the director of public works to: (1976 Code §2-97; amd.
Ord. 2011-21, 5-12-2011)
   A.   Subject to the provisions of ordinances of the village, take special
charge and superintendence of all streets, alleys, lanes, highways, walks,
crosswalks, bridges, tunnels and viaducts in the village and to cause the
prompt repair of the streets, alleys, highways and public places whenever the
same are taken up and altered, all public buildings in the village belonging to
the village, the erection of all public buildings of the village, and the
street lighting system of the village.
   B.   Be in charge of all sewers and drains in any of the streets, alleys,
avenues, or public places in the village, to see that they are kept in good
order and condition and clear and free from obstructions, and he shall cause to
be made such repairs thereof and of the receiving basins, culverts and openings
connected therewith, as may from time to time become necessary.
   C.   Supervise the operation of the potable water system throughout the
village including repair of water lines, pumping equipment, and storage
facilities.
   D.   Inspect the operations of the municipal garage to determine the quality
of automotive equipment maintenance and repair work.
   E.   Prepare operating and capital budget requirements for streets and
parkways maintenance and water and sewer system, to review equipment for needed
replacement; to maintain an inventory of equipment and supplies. (1976 Code §2-
97)
   F.   Prescribe the mode of piercing or opening any of the sewers or drains
or between sewers and drains and the form, size and material of the connection
therewith, except as otherwise provided, and shall have authority to issue a
permit granting permission to make lateral connections with such sewers and
drains and between sewers and drains; to superintend the laying down of gas,
water or steam pipes and electric light, telephone conduit and cable television
and determine their location.
   G.   Subject to the provisions of the ordinances of the village, direct the
manner of using the streets, alleys, lanes, highways and other public places of
the village where improvements are being installed or repairs are made,
including the erection of electric light, telephone, streetlight, traffic
light, cable television and other poles or posts, signs, canopies and other
overhead structures; for the laying down of gas, water, steam and other pipes,
electric light and telephone conduits and sewers authorized by law or the
ordinances of the village and to determine the location thereof when no other
or superior authority of the state shall have such supervision. It shall also
be his duty to see that during the progress of such construction, alteration,
placement or installation, the location thereof shall be in a safe condition so
as to prevent an accident by erecting barriers and notices where required.
(1976 Code §2-97; amd. 1991 Code)
   H.   Make, prepare and submit all necessary plans, maps, plats, profiles,
specifications, ordinances and estimates for any public work or improvement
which may be proposed or ordered by the mayor and board of trustees or the
village administrator.
   I.   Make all estimates for payment on contracts as the work under his
supervision progresses and as may be required under the ordinances,
specifications and contracts.
   J.   Carefully preserve in his office all engineering field notes, maps,
plans, profiles, papers, books, writings and records made by him or coming to
or being in his office and to arrange and index the same in such a manner that
a ready reference may be had thereto.
   K.   Furnish all necessary lines and grades of streets and alleys, or
portions thereof, to persons desiring to use the same for the purpose of
properly locating and constructing any sidewalk, curbing or building, but upon
the terms and payment of fees established by ordinance.
   L.   Make any and all surveys of public property in and for the village that
may be ordered by the mayor and board of trustees and enter into the plat books
of the village all plats and changes of plats approved by the mayor and board
of trustees.
   M.   Provide for the plan review and inspection services of all public
improvements proposed to be installed within the village limits in accordance
and subject to the provisions of the ordinances of the village.
   N.   Review and participate in civil engineering project work; confer on
requirements and established project schedules; review field survey work;
participate in final engineering design work, estimates, computations and
verifications of data; review and approve contract documents. (1976 Code §2-97)
   O.   Determine the installation and proper timing and maintenance of traffic
control devices, to conduct engineering analyses of traffic accidents and to
devise remedial measures, to conduct engineering investigation of traffic
conditions to plan the operation of traffic on the streets of this village,
including parking areas, and to cooperate with other village officials in the
development of ways and means to improve traffic conditions and to carry out
the additional powers and duties imposed by ordinances of this village. (1976
Code §19-7)
ARTICLE F. DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
1-6F-1: Position Described
1-6F-2: Powers And Duties
1-6F-1: POSITION DESCRIBED:
The director of community development is an exempt position, reporting directly
to the village administrator. The director of community development is
responsible for coordinating the planning, zoning, building code and economic
development functions for the village. The director and department's role is to
promote sustainable growth that is consistent with the village comprehensive
plan. (Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-2010)
1-6F-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Administer activities associated with carrying out the village
comprehensive plan for land development; answer technical inquiries regarding
land use and public services.
   B.   Review development plans for compliance with proper land use controls;
present oral and written testimony to the village administrator and plan
commission regarding development proposals; research community/economic
development issues and prepare reports for the village administrator; collect
data on land uses, utilities, transportation, public services and other
information in order to present information to developers.
   C.   Establish and maintain cooperative working relationships with land
developers, bankers, real estate brokers and other professionals; provide
development information.
   D.   Represent the village at meetings when requested by the village
administrator; make speeches and presentations regarding economic development
and related topics.
   E.   Review annexation and disconnection proposals and prepare a report
detailing impact of proposal.
   F.   Develop and present trend data pertaining to all facets of community
development in a timely fashion to assist the village administrator and the
village board in decision making processes.
   G.   Serve as liaison to the plan commission and contribute to the decision
making process of the plan commission through the investigation, preparation
and distribution of reports as needed.
   H.   Implement village plans, policies and programs by encouraging and
assisting annexation of unincorporated property.
   I.   Participate in the review of rezoning petitions, plats, special use
requests, annexations and site plan reviews.
   J.   Maintain a liaison with all departments of the village and outside
individuals to ensure cooperation in code enforcement.
   K.   Perform other duties as requested. (Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-2010)
ARTICLE G. BUILDING COMMISSIONER
SECTION:
1-6G-1: Position Described
1-6G-2: Powers And Duties
1-6G-1: POSITION DESCRIBED:
The building commissioner is an exempt position, reporting directly to the
director of community development and is responsible for directing the building
permit operations of the community development department. (Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-
2010)
1-6G-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Perform the duties of building official as these duties are defined in
this code 1 .
   B.   Administer the nontraffic code enforcement activities of this code.
   C.   Administer building permits and inspections.
   D.   Supervise the activities of all building, plumbing and electrical
inspectors.
   E.   Coordinate with the public works department in areas pertaining to, but
not limited to, paving, sidewalks, storm drainage systems, water supply and
distribution systems, traffic control and other municipal engineering
improvements.
   F.   Conduct predevelopment conferences with contractors and subdividers to
coordinate work and inspection and to secure proper understanding of building,
construction and other related requirements.
   G.   Investigate complaints of aesthetic code violations.
   H.   Conduct annual inspections of existing property.
   I.   Enforce the minimum maintenance code. (Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1A-8 of this code.
ARTICLE H. CHIEF OF POLICE
SECTION:
1-6H-1: Position Described
1-6H-2: Powers And Duties
1-6H-1: POSITION DESCRIBED:
The chief of police is a sworn, exempt position, reporting directly to the
village administrator and is responsible for the administration and direction
of the police department. The chief shall coordinate all functions of the
police department and shall formulate and prescribe work methods and procedures
to be followed by all sworn and civilian personnel of the police department. He
shall direct and be responsible for budget preparation. The chief of police is
responsible for advising the village administrator regarding policy matters
requiring his action and for their implementation. (1991 Code)
1-6H-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The chief of police shall:
   A.   Develop and recommend departmental goals and objectives to the village
administrator in order to determine present and future public safety
requirements for both equipment and manpower.
   B.   Review and approve general and special orders, procedures and
interoffice and intradivision memos in order to inform employees of their
duties and responsibilities.
   C.   Analyze operations and support services programs to determine their
productivity and efficiency in meeting goals and objectives and advise the
village administrator of their status.
   D.   Assign the investigation of complaints of employee misconduct,
discrimination or abuse of authority; take appropriate, corrective action based
upon the investigation. (1991 Code)
   E.   Hire, train, evaluate and discipline department personnel in accordance
with applicable administrative and board of police commissioners' 1  policies.
(1991 Code; amd. Ord. 93-26, 5-27-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 4 of this code.
ARTICLE I. GOLF PROFESSIONAL/MANAGER
SECTION:
1-6I-1: Position Described
1-6I-2: Powers and Duties
1-6I-1: POSITION DESCRIBED:
The Golf Professional/Manager is an exempt position, reporting directly to the
Village Administrator. The Golf Professional/Manager shall be a PGA
professional, holding a Class A certificate, and having a mastery of the
teaching and promotion of the game of golf. The Golf Professional/Manager is
responsible for the administration and direction of the Village Greens of
Woodridge Golf Course including the teaching of golf, organizing tournaments,
pro shop, driving range, food and beverage and golf course. The Golf
Professional/Manager shall coordinate all functions, and formulate and
prescribe work methods to be followed by the personnel of the Department to
ensure quality service levels. He shall be responsible for promotion of the
golf course, the game of golf, budget preparation, recommending appropriate fee
structures, hours of operation and purchasing of supplies and equipment. (Ord.
94-74, 10-27-94)
1-6I-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Golf Professional/Manager shall:
   A.   Plan and coordinate the activities of the golf course operation.
Analyze the Department and its programs to determine their productivity and
their effectiveness in meeting departmental objectives.
   B.   Prepare an annual operating and capital improvement budget; establish
expenditure controls to assure that the budget is observed; coordinate
expenditures with the Finance Director to insure that sufficient cash resources
are available; account for all revenues received through golf course
operations; recommend a rate structure to provide sufficient resources for
operations and capital expenses; complete all inventories necessary.
   C.   Develop and execute an appropriate media plan to promote the golf
facility and its services, including playing in tournaments.
   D.   Hire, train, evaluate and discipline Department personnel both full-
time and seasonal.
   E.   Review and direct the operation of the maintenance division of the golf
course and facilities through subordinate supervisors; review and approve
expenditures and contracts relating to the Village Greens of Woodridge.
   F.   Review and direct the operation of the clubhouse facility including the
pro shop; review and approve merchandise purchases, inventory and merchandising
of items.
   G.   Coordinate all capital projects, repairs and maintenance of all
equipment. (Ord. 94-74, 10-27-94)
ARTICLE J. BUDGET OFFICER
SECTION:
1-6J-1: Office Created
1-6J-2: Oath Of Office; Bond
1-6J-3: Compensation
1-6J-4: Powers And Duties
1-6J-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of budget officer. The director of finance
shall serve as the budget officer. (Ord. 2011-06, 3-24-2011)
1-6J-2: OATH OF OFFICE; BOND:
Before taking office, the budget officer shall take an oath of office and
furnish a fidelity bond in the same manner and in such amounts as are otherwise
applicable to the office of village administrator. (Ord. 2011-06, 3-24-2011)
1-6J-3: COMPENSATION:
The budget officer shall receive such compensation as may be provided from time
to time by ordinance. (Ord. 2011-06, 3-24-2011)
1-6J-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The budget officer shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   Permit and encourage and establish the use of efficient planning,
budgeting, auditing, reporting, accounting, and other fiscal management
procedures in all village departments, commissions, and boards.
   B.   Compile an annual budget in accordance with section
1-8-5 of this title.
   C.   Examine all books and records of all village departments, commissions,
and boards which relate to monies received by the village, village departments,
commissions, and boards, and paid out by the village, village departments,
commissions, and boards, debts and accounts receivable, amounts owed by or to
the village, village departments, commissions, and boards.
   D.   Obtain such additional information from the village, village
departments, commissions, and boards as may be useful to the budget officer for
purposes of compiling a village budget, such information to be furnished by the
village, village departments, commissions, and boards in the form required by
the budget officer. Any department, commission or board which refuses to make
such information as is requested of it available to the budget officer shall
not be permitted to make expenditures under any subsequent budget for the
village until such village department, commission or board shall comply in full
with the request of the budget officer.
   E.   Establish and maintain such procedures as shall ensure that no
expenditures are made by the village, village departments, commissions, or
boards except as authorized by the budget. (Ord. 2011-06, 3-24-2011)
ARTICLE K. VILLAGE CODE OF ETHICS
SECTION:
1-6K-1: Declaration Of Policy And Purpose
1-6K-2: Definitions
1-6K-3: Interest In Contracts Or Transactions
1-6K-4: Private Use Of Public Property
1-6K-5: Special Treatment Of Others
1-6K-6: Political Activities
1-6K-7: Disclosure Of Interest
1-6K-8: Ethics Officer
1-6K-9: Interpretation
1-6K-10: Violations
1-6K-11: Distribution Of Code Of Ethics
1-6K-12: Penalties
1-6K-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The proper operation of democratic government requires that public
officials and employees be independent, impartial and responsive to the people
they serve; that government decisions and policy be made in the proper channels
of the governmental structure; that public office not be used for personal gain
or to advance the interest of family, relatives or friends; and that the public
have confidence in the integrity of its government. In recognition of these
goals there is established a Code of Ethics for all Village public officials,
whether elected or appointed, paid or unpaid, and for Village employees. The
purposes of this article are to establish ethical standards of conduct for all
such public officials and employees by setting forth those acts or actions
which are incompatible with the best interests of the Village and its
inhabitants and by requiring disclosure by public officials and employees of
private financial or other interests in matters affecting the Village.
   B.   This article is founded upon the principle that no individual shall
receive any inordinate financial or other gain by reason of his or her serving
as a public official or employee of the Village, and that no private party or
taxpayer, including public officials or employees of their family members,
should receive any benefit from Village action beyond that which is available
to any other private party or taxpayer due to their relation to or as a result
of privileged information or support provided by any public official or
employee. (Ord. 2022-52, 8-18-2022)
1-6K-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BUSINESS ENTITY: Any business, proprietorship, firm, partnership, person in
representative or fiduciary capacity, association, venture, trust or
corporation.
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION: Information which is not available to the public
under the Illinois Freedom of Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/1, et seq.
FAMILY MEMBER: A spouse, domestic partner, child, grandchild, parent,
grandparent, or sibling, or the spouse, domestic partner, child, grandchild,
parent, grandparent, or sibling of such spouse, domestic partner, child,
grandchild, parent, grandparent, or sibling.
INTEREST: Any direct or indirect benefit accruing to a public official or
employee, or his or her family members, whether in the public official's or
employee's own name or the name of any person as a result of a contract or
transaction which is or which is known will become the subject of an official
act or action by or with the Village. The preceding shall not apply to such
contracts or transactions which by their terms and by the substance of their
provisions confer the opportunity and right to realize the accrual of similar
benefits to all other citizens of the Village. Additionally, benefits accruing
to any business entity in which a public official or employee holds an
ownership interest of less than 5% and the award of the contract would not
cause the aggregate amount of all such contracts awarded to the same business
entity in the same fiscal year to exceed $25,000, shall not be deemed to be
benefits accruing to such public official or employee.
OFFICIAL ACT or OFFICIAL ACTION: Any legislative, administrative, appointive or
discretionary act of any public official or employee of the Village or any
agency, board, committee or commission thereof.
PUBLIC OFFICIAL or PUBLIC EMPLOYEE: Any person, officer or employee holding a
position by election, appointment or employment in the service of the Village,
whether paid or unpaid, including members of any agency, board, committee or
commission thereof; provided, however, that independent contractors shall not
be considered public officials or employees.
STATE ETHICS ACT: The Illinois State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS
430/1-1, et seq., as may be amended.
TRANSACTION: Any matter, including, but not limited to, contracts, work or
business with the Village, the sale or purchase of real estate by the Village,
and any requests for zoning amendments, variations, planned development
approval or special permits pending before the Village, upon which a public
official or employee performs an official act or action. (Ord. 2022-52, 8-18-
2022)
1-6K-3: INTEREST IN CONTRACTS OR TRANSACTIONS:
   A.   Conflict Of Interest: No officer or employee shall engage in any
business or transaction or shall have a financial or other personal interest,
direct or indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or
her official duties in the public interest or which may tend to impair his or
her independence of judgment or action in the performance of his or her
official duties.
   B.   Gifts:
      1.   No public official or employee shall accept from any person involved
in any transaction with the Village any present or future gift, favor, service
or thing of value as an inducement for an official act or action. Any such
gift, favor, service or thing of value in excess of $100 accepted by a public
official or employee shall be presumed to have been accepted as an inducement
for an official act or action unless promptly surrendered to the sole use and
benefit of the Village.
      2.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the State Ethics Act, by any officer or any employee of the
Village, is hereby prohibited.
      3.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the Village under the State Ethics Act, is hereby
prohibited.
   C.   Disclosure Of Confidential Information: No public official or employee,
with respect to any transaction which is or which is reasonably expected to
become the subject of an official act or action, shall, without proper legal
authorization, disclose confidential information concerning the property,
government or affairs of the Village or use such information to advance the
interest of such public official or employee or his or her family members.
   D.   Appearance Before Village Boards And/Or Commissions: No public official
or employee and no member of any agency, board, committee or commission on any
matter within the jurisdiction of such agency, board, committee or commission
shall appear on behalf of any private person or business entity, other than
himself or herself or a family member before any Village agency, board,
committee or commission.
   E.   Incompatible Employment: No public officer or employee shall engage in
or accept private employment or render services for private interests when such
employment or service creates a conflict with or impairs the proper discharge
of his or her official duties. (Ord. 2022-52, 8-18-2022)
1-6K-4: PRIVATE USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No public official or employee shall request or permit the use of Village-owned
vehicles, equipment, materials or property for personal convenience or profit
except as otherwise allowed by rules and regulations of the Village. (Ord.
2022-52, 8-18-2022)
1-6K-5: SPECIAL TREATMENT OF OTHERS:
No public official or employee shall grant any special consideration, treatment
or advantage to any person or business entity beyond that which is available to
every other citizen. (Ord. 2022-52, 8-18-2022)
1-6K-6: POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No appointment to or employment in any Village position shall be
dependent on political activity.
   B.   No employee shall be required to engage in any political activity as a
condition of employment.
   C.   The participation in political activities prohibited under the State
Ethics Act, by any officer or employee of the Village, is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 2022-52, 8-18-2022)
1-6K-7: DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST:
Any public official or employee who has (or whose family members have) an
interest in a transaction which is the subject of an official act or action
shall disclose on the record of the board or commission which performs such
official act or to the Village Administrator, in the case of employees, the
nature and extent of such interest and shall not participate in any official
act or action regarding that transaction. (Ord. 2022-52, 8-18-2022)
1-6K-8: ETHICS OFFICER:
There is hereby created the office of ethics officer. The village of Woodridge
legal counsel shall be the ethics officer. It is recognized that no written
code of ethics of this nature can provide specifically for all possible
contingencies. Any questions regarding the propriety of any transaction or the
proper interpretation of this article may be brought to the ethics officer at
any time. The ethics officer shall provide guidance to the public officers and
employees of the village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with
the provisions of this section and the State Ethics Act. The ethics officer
shall perform such other duties as may be delegated by the village. (Ord. 2022-
52, 8-18-2022)
1-6K-9: INTERPRETATION:
It is the intent of the Village that the provisions of this article shall be
substantially in accordance with the requirements of Section 5-15 and Article
10 of the State Ethics Act. To the extent that Section 5-15 or Article 10 of
the State Ethics Act may be more restrictive than the requirements of this
article, the provisions of Section 5-15 and Article 10 of the State Ethics Act
shall apply and control. This article does not repeal other relevant personnel
rules or regulations adopted by the Village ("existing regulations"). To the
extent that the existing regulations are less restrictive than Section 5-15 or
Article 10 of the State Ethics Act and this article, the provisions of Section
5-15 and Article 10 of the State Ethics Act and this article shall apply and
control. (Ord. 2022-52, 8-18-2022)
1-6K-10: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   A finding by five or more members of the corporate authorities that a
public official or employee has violated any provision of this article shall
constitute cause for censure, suspension, removal from office or employment or
other disciplinary action as may be appropriate; provided, however, that no
such disciplinary action shall be taken except in compliance with any and all
applicable procedures and standards established by state law or Village
ordinance.
   B.   Any person found guilty in a court of law of violating the provisions
of this article shall be fined in the amount imposed pursuant to Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   C.   Any contract or transaction which was the subject of an official act or
action of the Village in which any public official or employee has an interest
prohibited by this article, or which involved the violation of a provision of
this article, shall, upon discovery, disclosure or determination of such
interest or violation, be officially reconsidered. (Ord. 2022-52, 8-18-2022)
1-6K-11: DISTRIBUTION OF CODE OF ETHICS:
The Village Administrator shall cause a copy of the Code of Ethics to be
distributed to every public official and employee of the Village as well as to
all new employees and officials when they begin their service to the Village.
All officers of the Village are expected to read the Code of Ethics. Copies may
be obtained from the Village Clerk. (Ord. 2022-52, 8-18-2022)
1-6K-12: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates a provision of this article shall be fined in the
amount set forth in Article 50 of the State Ethics Act for the corresponding
provision of the State Ethics Act. If there is no corresponding provision of
the State Ethics Act, the fine shall be in the amount imposed pursuant to
Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2022-52, 8-18-2022)
CHAPTER 7
PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Purpose
1-7A-2: Definitions
1-7A-3: Values Statement For The Village Of Woodridge
1-7A-4: Village Organization
1-7A-5: Applicability
1-7A-6: Administration Of The Personnel Program
1-7A-1: PURPOSE:
Personnel policies, the framework for workplace rules for village employees are
provided to employees in an employee handbook, as promulgated and amended from
time to time by the village administrator, a copy of which shall be maintained
on file in the office of the village clerk. The purpose of this chapter is to
provide policies which may have implications for or interest by the public.
(Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7A-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in the village of Woodridge employee handbook, the following words and
terms, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, shall have the meanings
as defined herein:
ASSISTANT VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR: An exempt, department manager level position,
reporting directly to the village administrator and responsible for assisting
the village administrator in managing the day to day functions of village
government and the administration department.
BENEFITS: Privileges granted to employees which are included in the total
compensation to employee; includes, but is not limited to, vacation leave, sick
leave, military leave, holiday leave, hospitalization and medical insurance.
BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS: The board of police commissioners of the village
of Woodridge, Illinois.
DEPARTMENT MANAGER: An employee who manages the day to day functions of an
operating department of the village and serves as the director of the
department. The chief of police and the assistant village administrator manage
the day to day functions of the police and administration departments
respectively and, therefore, function as department managers of these
departments.
FISCAL YEAR: Shall be January 1 to December 31 inclusive, or as otherwise
provided by ordinance.
POSITION: Any office, employment or place in village service.
PROHIBITED SUBSTANCE: For purposes of this policy, prohibited substances shall
be defined as any controlled substance as listed in the Illinois controlled
substances act 1  or cannabis control act 2  and substances listed in schedules
I through V of section 202 of the controlled substances act, 21 USC section
812, any drug which is not legally obtainable, and/or any drug which is legally
obtainable, such as a prescription drug, but which is not legally obtained, is
not being used for prescribed purposes, and/or is not being taken according to
prescribed dosages, or any other intoxicating substance. Prohibited substances
include, but are not limited to: narcotics (heroin, morphine, etc.), cannabis
(marijuana, hashish), stimulants (cocaine, crack, etc.), depressants
(tranquilizers), and hallucinogens (PCP, LSD, "designer drugs", etc.).
SALARY ADMINISTRATION PLAN: The salary administration plan as adopted by
separate ordinance by the mayor and board of trustees of the village of
Woodridge, Illinois.
SALARY RANGE: A scale of compensation covering the minimum and maximum levels
of pay for a specific position as established in the village's salary
administration plan.
SUPERVISORY POSITION: A position involving the formal responsibilities for the
organizing, assigning, supervising and reviewing the work of a group of
employees within a department. For purposes of employees hired under board of
police commissioners' rules and regulations, the position of sergeant is
included in this definition.
VILLAGE: The village of Woodridge, Illinois.
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR: The village administrator shall be appointed by the
mayor with the advice and consent of the board of trustees and shall be the
direct representative of the corporate authorities in the transaction of all
village business and in all matters concerning the citizens of the village.
There shall be such specific duties as assigned from time to time by the
corporate authorities.
VILLAGE BOARD: The mayor and board of trustees of the village of Woodridge,
Illinois. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 570.
2 2. 720 ILCS 550.
1-7A-3: VALUES STATEMENT FOR THE VILLAGE OF WOODRIDGE:
The government of the village of Woodridge is an excellent organization. We are
proud of the work by the community and its employees.
To understand our commitment to excellence, we state our values:
   OUR VALUES
Pride in service.
Fair and equitable treatment of employees and citizens.
Sound economic development.
Organizational competence.
Community participation.
Sound economic development.
Clean environment.
Safety and welfare.
Diversity.
   OUR VALUES DEFINED
Personal accessibility reflects our commitment to service. We value a
municipality that is sensitive, receptive and responsive to our community.
We value a spirit of professionalism which encourages its members to be
cooperative and supportive toward shared goals.
We value a humane organization and believe we should promote fair and equitable
treatment, combining a source of enjoyment and satisfaction in service to our
community.
We value fiscal responsibility. Careful management of our financial resources
demonstrates our respect for our residents.
Organizational competence with professional development and innovation
encourages community participation and open, accessible government.
We value sound economic development, protection of our citizens, and a clean
environment for them to enjoy.
We value diversity and work to develop interactive relationships with all
residents in order to enhance the quality of life throughout the village.
(Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7A-4: VILLAGE ORGANIZATION:
The mayor and the six (6) trustees comprise the village board and govern the
village of Woodridge. The village board establishes policy for the village.
Individuals serve on the village's various boards and commissions appointed by
the mayor, with the advice and consent of the village board, and play an active
role in the policymaking process by advising the village board on issues within
their purview. The village administrator is responsible for implementing the
policies as determined by the mayor and village board.
All departments within the village report to the village administrator. There
are five (5) main operating departments: administration (which includes the
village clerk's office), finance, community development, public works, and
police. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7A-5: APPLICABILITY:
All positions now existing or hereafter created shall be subjected to the
provisions of the village of Woodridge employee handbook. The following
positions shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter, as noted:
   A.   Elected officials - exempt in total (except as otherwise noted).
   B.   Members of commissions and committees - exempt in total (except as
otherwise noted).
   C.   Legal counsel - exempt in total.
   D.   Those employees who are subject to the provisions of the board of
police commissioners' statutes and police pension statutes shall be exempt from
those provisions of the village of Woodridge employee handbook which are
inconsistent with such statutes and with valid rules adopted by the board of
police commissioners and the police pension board.
   E.   Those employees who are subject to a collective bargaining agreement or
employment agreement shall be exempt from the provisions of the village of
Woodridge employee handbook which are inconsistent with such collective
bargaining agreement. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7A-6: ADMINISTRATION OF THE PERSONNEL PROGRAM:
   A.   Administration: The village administrator shall be responsible for
administration of the village of Woodridge employee handbook. It shall be the
purpose of the village of Woodridge employee handbook to provide a framework
for a uniform and equitable personnel policy and administration for all
employees of the village of Woodridge. The administrator shall:
      1.   Recommend and implement amendments to the village of Woodridge
employee handbook and communicate amendments to the village board as
appropriate.
      2.   Develop and promulgate procedural rules, interpretations and other
personnel policies.
      3.   Administer the grievance procedure contained in the village of
Woodridge employee handbook.
   B.   Human Resources Officer: The village administrator may appoint a human
resources officer and may delegate to this position any or all duties and
responsibilities granted to the village administrator by this section.
   C.   Human Resources Objectives:
      1.   To recruit, select and retain employees based on their knowledge,
skills and ability to perform the duties of his/her position.
      2.   To explain the benefits and compensation offered to employees.
      3.   To train employees in order to assure high quality performance.
      4.   To reward employees for meeting performance standards, to correct
inadequate performance, and to separate those employees whose inadequate
performance cannot be corrected.
      5.   To provide equal opportunities in all aspects of employment. (Ord.
2014-89, 12-18-2014)
ARTICLE B. CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Antinepotism
1-7B-2: Antiharassment And Nondiscrimination Policy
1-7B-3: Drug Free Workplace Policy
1-7B-4: Smoke Free Workplace Policy
1-7B-5: Workplace Violence Policy
1-7B-6: Concealed Weapons Policy
1-7B-7: Use Of Village Equipment
1-7B-8: Electronic Communications Policy
1-7B-1: ANTINEPOTISM:
The general public and employees must be assured that personnel procedures and
hiring practices are based on qualifications rather than on political or family
advantage. Therefore, immediate family members of employed Woodridge employees
or elected officials are prohibited from working for the village. The exception
to this policy would be where the employee(s) are hired through competitive
examinations (police officer testing process). As a general rule, no immediate
family member(s) may supervise other family member(s).
   A.   Definition Of Relative: "Relative" is deemed to mean a spouse, former
spouse, parents, grandparents, children or grandchildren, siblings, aunts or
uncles, nieces or nephews, cousins, and in- laws and step relatives within
these categories.
   B.   Supervisor/Subordinates: The employment or promotion of a "relative"
(as defined above) of any village employee, in a full or part time position, is
prohibited if such employment or promotion shall cause an employee to come
under, or to provide direct supervision to a related village employee.
If employees become related after employment, it is the responsibility and
obligation of the employees involved to disclose the existence of the
relationship to the human resources manager immediately. This disclosure will
enable the human resources manager to determine whether any potential,
perceived or actual conflict of interest exists because of the relative
positions of the persons involved. This policy may not apply to appointments
made under the rules and regulations of the board of police commissioners.
   C.   Personal Relationships: Supervisors, managers and elected officials
must ensure that any personal relationships do not impact the workplace or
operations and efficiency of the village and that they do not result in a
potential, actual, or perceived conflict of interest, including, but not
limited to, potential, actual, or perceived favoritism.
Employee off duty conduct is generally regarded as private, as long as such
conduct does not have a connection to or create problems within the workplace.
An exception to this principle, however, is the following: 1) a personal
relationship between a manager or supervisor and a subordinate, if the
relationship is deemed to have the potential to create the appearance of or
actually impact/influence working conditions; or 2) a relationship between
peers that actually affects the working conditions in a department.
The provisions of this policy are not limited to personal or familial
relationships amongst supervisors, managers, and subordinates. This policy also
includes personal and/or familial relationships between individuals working as
peers in any department when such relationship actually disrupts the operation
of the department or the village.
   D.   Alternatives: In the event that: 1) employees are relatives or become
relatives (as defined above) and are or become a direct or indirect supervisor/
subordinate; or 2) a personal relationship exists or should occur between a
direct or indirect supervisor/subordinate; or 3) a personal relationship exists
between peers which causes disruption to the operations of a department or the
village, the human resources manager, in conjunction with the village
administrator, will determine whether the relationship creates an actual or
potential conflict, the appearance of a conflict of interest, or disruption to
the operation of the village. If the relationship is determined to create one
of these situations, one of the following will occur:
      1.   The human resources manager and department manager, in conjunction
with the village administrator, will work with the affected employees to
determine the most appropriate way to address the situation, including whether
another suitable position exists elsewhere in the village to which to transfer
one of the employees to eliminate the real, potential or perceived conflict and
which employee will be transferred. Transfer decisions may be based on, but are
not limited to, such factors as the grade of each affected employee's position,
the availability of openings for which the affected employees are qualified,
and the availability of replacement candidates for the affected employees'
positions.
      2.   If the human resources manager, in conjunction with the village
administrator and affected employees, determines that no suitable alternative
position exists to which to transfer one of the employees, the human resources
manager will determine whether a lower level position exists for one of the
employees which would eliminate the real, potential or perceived conflict and
which employee would be moved to the lower level position.
      3.   If the human resources manager, in conjunction with the village
administrator, determines no such suitable position exists, the affected
employees will be given three (3) weeks to decide which employee will be
separated from employment. If the employees are unable to agree, the human
resources manager and village administrator, in conjunction with the department
manager, will decide which employee is to be separated from employment.
      4.   Refusal of a reasonable alternative position, if available, will be
deemed a voluntary resignation.
   E.   Policy Administration: This policy is intended to comply with the
requirements of all applicable federal, state and local laws.
The village administrator and human resources manager are responsible for the
coordination, administration and implementation of the provisions of this
policy. Prior to the application of this policy regarding employment or
transfer decisions with respect to spouses, supervisors must contact the human
resources manager to ensure compliance with applicable federal, state, and
local laws.
   F.   Violations Of Policy: Employees who violate this policy may be subject
to corrective action, up to and including termination. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-
2014)
1-7B-2: ANTIHARASSMENT AND NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The village is committed to maintaining an environment free
from discrimination, harassment, retaliation and inappropriate/offensive
conduct (referred to collectively as "prohibited conduct"). Our "zero
tolerance" policy must be adhered to by all village department managers,
supervisors and employees. The village will not tolerate any form of
discrimination, harassment, retaliation, or inappropriate/offensive conduct.
This policy forbids an employee, elected official, appointed official, vendor,
client, customer or other person, from engaging in such conduct. Employees who
engage in prohibited conduct are subject to disciplinary action, up to and
including termination, as determined by management.
   B.   Equal Employment Opportunity: The village of Woodridge affords equal
employment opportunity to all qualified persons in all aspects of employment
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, national
origin, ancestry, disability, marital status, order of protection, military
status or unfavorable discharge from military service (except dishonorable), or
any other protected status under applicable local, state or federal law. This
policy applies to recruitment, hiring, compensation, promotion, transfer,
disciplinary action, layoff, return from layoff, discharge, training, and all
other terms, conditions or privileges of employment.
   C.   Sexual Harassment: Sexual harassment includes any unwelcome or unwanted
sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or other verbal, physical, or
visual conduct based on sex, gender or of a sexual nature when: 1) submission
to the conduct is an explicit or implicit term or condition of employment, 2)
submission to or rejection of the conduct is used as the basis for an
employment decision affecting the individual, or 3) the conduct has the purpose
or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's work performance or
creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment.
This policy forbids harassment based on sex/gender regardless of whether it
rises to the level of a legal violation.
   D.   Examples Of Policy Violations: The village considers the following
conduct to represent some, but not all, of the types of acts that violate this
policy:
      1.   Physical assaults of a sexual nature, including, but not limited to,
rape, sexual battery, molestation, intentional physical conduct which is sexual
in nature, such as touching, pinching, patting, grabbing, etc.;
      2.   Unwanted sexual advances, propositions or other sexual comments,
including, but not limited to, sexually oriented gestures, noises, remarks,
jokes, comments, or verbal abuse of a sexual nature;
      3.   Preferential treatment and promises of preferential treatment to an
employee for submitting to sexual conduct;
      4.   Sexual or discriminatory displays or publications anywhere in the
village workplace by village employees including, but not limited to, pictures,
posters, calendars, graffiti, e-mails, objects, reading materials, or other
materials that are sexually suggestive, demeaning, or pornographic.
   E.   Individual Employee Responsibility: All village employees can assume
that the workplace is free from prohibited conduct. All employees are expected
to avoid any behavior or conduct that could reasonably be interpreted as
discriminatory, harassing, inappropriate or offensive and to report such
conduct. No employees are exempt from this policy.
   F.   Reporting Complaints Of Harassment: If an employee believes he/she has
been subject to prohibited conduct or that another individual has been
subjected to prohibited conduct, he/she should deal with the incident(s) as
directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating his/her position to
the offending employee/person. In addition, the employee should promptly report
the incident to his/her supervisor, department manager, human resources
manager, and/or assistant village administrator.
Any complaints may be reported to the human resources manager or assistant
village administrator at any time, as these individuals are authorized by this
policy to receive and act upon complaints on behalf of the village.
If an employee is uncomfortable or sensitive about discussing a complaint with
an individual of the opposite sex, the employee may report the conduct to any
department manager of the same sex.
This policy does not require that the employee report the conduct to any
individual who is engaging in the conduct. If the employee believes that any
person to whom such a report should be directed is involved in or associated in
any way with the alleged conduct, then the report should be directed to another
department manager not involved in the conduct and/or the human resources
manager.
No person making a complaint of harassment will be retaliated against even if a
complaint made in good faith is not substantiated. Any witnesses to an incident
of sexual harassment are also protected from retaliation.
The village hopes that any incident of harassment can be resolved through the
internal process outlined above. All employees, however, have the right to file
formal charges with the Illinois department of human rights (IDHR) and/or the
United States equal employment opportunity commission (EEOC). Charges are
investigated in accordance with the rules of the IDHR and/or the EEOC. The
following agencies may be contacted as follows:
 
The Illinois department of human rights                   Chicago 312-814-6200
                                                          TTY     217-785-5125
The United States equal employment opportunity commission Chicago 800-669-4000
                                                          TTY     800-669-6820
 
   G.   False And Frivolous Complaints: False and frivolous charges refer to
cases where the accuser is using a harassment complaint to accomplish some end
other than stopping harassment. It does not refer to charges made in good faith
that cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the consequences for the
accused, a false and frivolous charge is a severe offense that can, itself,
result in disciplinary action up to and including termination.
   H.   Responsibility Of Supervisory/Managerial Employees: Any supervisor or
manager who has knowledge of prohibited conduct, or to whom a complaint has
been made, must promptly report the conduct both to the department head and to
the human resources manager or to another member of the senior executive
management staff who is not involved in the conduct.
   I.   Investigation: All complaints or reports of prohibited conduct will be
investigated promptly. The village may put in place reasonable interim
measures, such as a leave of absence or a transfer, while the investigation
takes place. The village will take further appropriate action once the
complaint or report has been investigated. That action may be a conclusion that
a violation occurred. The village might also conclude, depending on the
circumstances, either that no violation of the policy occurred or that the
village cannot conclude whether or not a violation occurred.
   J.   Corrective Action: If the village concludes that a violation of this
policy has occurred, the village will take corrective action, up to and
including immediate termination, as is appropriate under the circumstances as
determined in the village's discretion, regardless of the job positions of the
parties involved. The village may discipline an employee for any inappropriate
conduct, regardless of whether the conduct amounts to a violation of law or
even a violation of policy. If the village does not employ the person engaged
in the conduct, then the village will take whatever corrective action it deems
reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances.
   K.   Retaliation Policy: The village forbids any employee to treat any other
employee or applicant adversely for making a report, assisting another employee
or applicant in making a report, cooperating in an investigation, or filing an
administrative claim with the EEOC (equal employment opportunity commission) or
a state governmental agency. All employees who experience or witness any
conduct they believe to be retaliatory should immediately follow the reporting
procedure described above.
   L.   Confidentiality: Although total confidentiality in investigating and
imposing any discipline cannot be assured, the village will attempt to preserve
confidentiality to the extent that the needs of the situation permit.
   M.   Violations Of Policy: All village employees have a responsibility to
conduct themselves in compliance with this policy and to report any
observations of conduct inconsistent with this policy. The failure to follow
this policy may result in disciplinary action, up to and including immediate
termination, as determined in management's discretion.
Any questions concerning this policy should be directed to a department
manager, the human resources manager, or the assistant village administrator.
(Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7B-3: DRUG FREE WORKPLACE POLICY:
   A.   Philosophy: The village of Woodridge is committed to the promotion of a
drug free workplace. The illegal, prohibited, or misuse of controlled
substances is a major cause of preventable disease, injury and death in this
country. Thus, it is the village's intent and obligation to provide a drug
free, healthful, safe and secure work environment for all village personnel.
   B.   Responsibility: The village administrator or his/her designee shall be
responsible for the administration of this policy. Department managers shall be
responsible for ensuring compliance with the letter and spirit of this policy.
   C.   Eligibility: All full time, part time, and temporary/seasonal employees
are required to abide by the requirements of this policy.
   D.   Definition: The unlawful manufacture, distribution, possession or use
of any controlled substance is strictly prohibited in any of the following
situations:
      1.   By on duty village employees on village premises,
      2.   While conducting village business off village premises, or
      3.   While representing the village by volunteering for village events,
whether on or off village premises.
For the purposes of this policy, prohibited substances shall be defined as any
controlled substance as listed in the Illinois controlled substances act 1  or
cannabis control act 2  and substances listed in schedules I through V of
section 202 of the controlled substances act, 21 USC section 812, any drug
which is not legally obtainable and/or any drug which is legally obtainable,
such as a prescription drug, but which is not legally obtained, is not being
used for prescribed purposes, and/or is not being taken according to prescribed
dosages, or any other intoxicating substance. Prohibited substances include,
but are not limited to: narcotics (heroin, morphine, etc.), cannabis
(marijuana, hashish), stimulants (cocaine, crack, etc.), depressants
(tranquilizers), and hallucinogens (PCP, LSD, "designer drugs", etc.).
   E.   Reporting Provision: All village personnel must, as a condition of
employment, abide by the terms of this policy and report to the village
administrator, any conviction under a criminal drug statute for violations
occurring on or off village premises while conducting village business. The
reporting of a conviction must be made to the village administrator or his/her
designee within five (5) calendar days after the conviction.
   F.   Assistance Program: The village recognizes controlled substance
dependency as an illness and a major health problem. The village also
recognizes the use of controlled substances as a potential health, safety, and
security problem. Village personnel who require help in dealing with such
problems are encouraged to use our confidential employee assistance program and
our health insurance plans as appropriate. Conscientious efforts to seek such
help will not jeopardize any employee's job and will not be noted in any
personnel record.
   G.   Violations Of Policy: Violations of this policy may result in
disciplinary action, up to and including the following:
      1.   Termination,
      2.   Legal prosecution, and/or
      3.   Required participation in a controlled substance abuse
rehabilitation treatment program. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 570.
2 2. 720 ILCS 550.
1-7B-4: SMOKE FREE WORKPLACE POLICY:
The village of Woodridge is dedicated to providing a healthy, comfortable, and
productive work environment for our employees. Smoking, the use of electronic
smoking devices (i.e., e-cigarettes) are prohibited in indoor spaces. The use
of smoking or electronic smoking devices is not permitted in any enclosed
village facility or vehicle. This policy applies to all employees, residents,
vendors, contractors and visitors. Employees may not smoke or use electronic
smoking devices during work time while interacting with residents.
   A.   Permitted Areas For Smoking: The village has designated the following
areas for employees, residents, vendors, contractors, and visitors to smoke.
These locations are a minimum of fifteen feet (15') outside building entrances,
operable windows, and ventilation systems of enclosed areas where smoking is
prohibited, so as to ensure that tobacco smoke does not enter those areas.
      1.   Village hall location:
         a.   Fifteen feet (15') beyond maintenance entry.
      2.   Police department location:
         a.   Fifteen feet (15') beyond east back lot employee entrance.
      3.   Public works locations:
         a.   Fifteen feet (15') beyond east back door.
         b.   Fifteen feet (15') beyond the southwest maintenance back door.
   B.   Break Periods: The village provides reasonable lunch and break periods
during each workday in an appropriate manner for maintaining departmental
operations. Employees may not take additional break periods for the purpose of
smoking during the workday or work shift.
   C.   No Smoking Signs: "No Smoking" signs are posted at all entrances to all
village facilities as well as in all village vehicles. Ashtrays are located
outside of the fifteen feet (15') measured radius of any facility entryway or
where smoking is prohibited by law.
   D.   Reporting Violations: Employees may report violations of this policy to
their supervisor, department manager, or the assistant village administrator.
In addition, violations can be reported directly to the Illinois department of
public health. The telephone number designated by the Illinois department of
public health for registering complaints is 1-866-973-4646. Violations can also
be reported online at www.smoke-free.illinois.gov. The success of this policy
depends on the thoughtfulness, consideration, and cooperation of both smokers
and nonsmokers. All employees share in the responsibility of adhering to and
enforcing this policy. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7B-5: WORKPLACE VIOLENCE POLICY:
   A.   Objective: It is the objective of the village to ensure the safety and
well being of its employees and individuals conducting business with the
village. Therefore, the village has established a zero tolerance policy for any
violent acts or threats directed by or toward any village employee or
individuals conducting business with the village. This policy applies at all
times during which an employee is conducting village business, during working
hours, and on village property.
   B.   Definitions: Violence includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Any physical behavior that involves aggressive physical contact with
any other person, including pushing, hitting, fighting, throwing objects or
otherwise intentionally injuring another person or attempting to injure another
person;
      2.   Any physical behavior that would place a reasonable person in fear
of receiving imminent physical injury or other aggressive physical contact of
the sort described above;
      3.   Possession of a weapon such as a gun, knife, razor, or other
instrument not used in the workplace or performance of duties that could be
used as a weapon;
      4.   Verbal behavior which involves threatening physical harm, either
directly or implicitly, against any person;
      5.   Any act of vandalism or other intentional damage or destruction of
village or private property.
      6.   Workplace violence also includes instances where a nonemployee makes
such acts or threats against an employee.
   C.   Exclusion: Workplace violence does not include activities covered by
police department regulations concerning the use of force in the performance of
law enforcement duties, which are treated separately under the department's
general orders.
   D.   Responsibility Of Individual Employees: Employees, who become aware of
any violence or threat of workplace violence, whether by an employee or
nonemployee, are required to immediately report such action to his/her
supervisor or department manager. Employees should not confront the person
against whom a complaint is lodged.
   E.   Responsibility Of Supervisory/Managerial Employees: If a supervisor or
a department manager receives a complaint, it is his/her responsibility to
notify the village administrator's office as soon as is reasonably possible.
All complaints must be given a high priority and an investigation of the
incident will be initiated.
   F.   Nonretaliation: When an employee reasonably and in good faith opposes
or reports any workplace violence or threat, or testifies, assists, or
participates in an investigation of or hearing concerning allegations of
threats of violence, no person or group of persons may retaliate against the
employee.
   G.   Violations Of Policy: Violations of this policy may result in
disciplinary action up to and including immediate termination of employment.
Employees should also understand that such behavior may constitute criminal
conduct and may result in criminal prosecution. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7B-6: CONCEALED WEAPONS POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The village strives to maintain a safe workplace environment
for its employees and visitors. Workplace safety is enhanced by understanding
the Illinois firearms concealed carry act (public act 98-0063). This law allows
licensed persons to: 1) carry loaded and unloaded concealed firearms in public,
and 2) carry and store loaded and unloaded concealed firearms in their
vehicles.
   B.   Village Facilities Are Prohibited Areas: Public facilities are
"prohibited" areas under section 65 of the act. Therefore, carrying a concealed
weapon in or on any village property is not authorized by Illinois law. This
applies to:
      1.   All officials, village employees, consultants, independent
contractors, volunteers, agents, and others who work for or with the village at
all times while on or in village property, whether on duty or off duty,
      2.   Contractors and vendors, and their personnel, when engaged in work
for or business with the village, and
      3.   All residents, clients, guests, and other persons who are not
village employees.
This prohibition means that any individual may not wear, carry, store,
transport, or otherwise possess a weapon in or on village property at any time.
(See exceptions below for further information.)
   C.   Definition Of Village Property: "Village property" means any village
building or property (or portion of a building or property) owned, leased, or
otherwise under the control of the village. Village property also means every
village owned or leased vehicle.
   D.   Weapon Prohibitions For Employees: Except as provided under
"exceptions" below, no village employee may wear, carry, store, transport, or
otherwise possess any weapon (whether loaded or unloaded) at any time in or on
any village property while performing any duties for or on behalf of the
village.
   E.   Definition Of Weapons: Weapons include, but are not limited to,
firearms of all types and sizes, whether loaded or unloaded, electronic devices
such as stun guns and laser guns, knives or swords with blades over four inches
(4") in length, explosives, and any chemical whose purpose is to cause harm to
another person, and any other device designed or used for a destructive
purpose. (This policy excludes "tools" commonly used for village purposes or
kept in their usual storage location.)
   F.   Prohibited Times And Places: Examples of prohibited times and places
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Performing work for the village at any location including private
residences and commercial establishments and other customer or client
locations.
      2.   Driving or riding as a passenger in a village vehicle.
      3.   Attending trade shows, conferences, or training on behalf of the
village.
      4.   Attending village directed or sponsored activities or events,
independent of venue.
      5.   Riding any type of public transportation while on village business.
      6.   Working off site on behalf of the village (excluding the employee's
residence).
      7.   Performing emergency or on call work for the village after normal
business hours and on weekends.
   G.   Use Of Private Vehicle: No village employee may use a privately owned
vehicle for village business if that vehicle contains a firearm of any type or
size, whether loaded or unloaded.
   H.   Exceptions:
      1.   Police Officers And Other Designated Personnel: Village police
officers and other Village employees who have been specifically designated or
deputized may possess their work issued weapons. Police officers or similar law
enforcement officers from other departments or agencies may possess their work
issued weapons while engaged in official duties.
      2.   Governmental: A State or Federal government employee may possess his
or her work issued weapons if engaged in official duties and required by law or
regulation to possess a weapon.
      3.   Parking Lots: A workplace staff member or visitor may keep a weapon
in his or her personal vehicle properly parked and locked in a Village parking
lot or parking area, so long as the weapon is kept: a) in compliance with all
applicable Federal and State laws and regulations, b) entirely out of sight,
and c) if a firearm, so long as the workplace staff member or visitor is
properly licensed and the firearm is unloaded and locked in a glove box, trunk,
or other secured container.
   I.   Inspections: Village representatives may inspect or search any
workplace area and any Village property, at any time, for the presence of
weapons.
   J.   Responsibility: All Village employees shall have the responsibility of
familiarizing themselves with this policy and adhering to it.
   K.   Reporting Of Violations: Any employee who sees or perceives a violation
of this policy must report that violation to his or her department manager, or
in the department manager's absence, to the Village Administrator or Assistant
Village Administrator, or in an emergency, to the Police Department (call 911).
   L.   Employee Conduct: No employee or other person should take any action
that will risk his or her safety or the safety of others. No person should
attempt to restrain or forcibly evict an individual with a weapon from Village
premises. Instead a person may inform that individual of this policy and ask
for compliance. If that individual does not comply, or if the employee or other
person does not feel safe making the request, then that person should contact
the Police Department immediately (call 911).
   M.   Violations Of Policy: Employees who violate this policy will be subject
to disciplinary actions, up to and including termination of employment.
Any violation of this policy by a visitor will subject the visitor to removal
from Village property, prohibition from returning to any Village property, and
arrest. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7B-7: USE OF VILLAGE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   All employees must be aware of the following guidelines regarding the
use of Village equipment:
      1.   Employees shall be responsible for the care and proper operation of
any vehicle, equipment, systems, tools or supplies that they use or are
assigned during working hours. Employees must promptly report any accident,
breakdown, or malfunction of equipment or systems. Carelessness or negligence
in the handling of such items is not acceptable behavior and, following review,
employees may be subject to disciplinary action.
      2.   When using Village vehicles, employees must keep in mind that they
are representatives of the Village and that their conduct in adhering to the
rules of safety and courtesy on the road is a reflection on the entire
organization. In addition, employees must follow the guidelines of the
Village's Fleet Safety Policy.
      3.   Employees shall not be permitted to use Village vehicles, equipment,
systems, tools, or supplies for personal use without the permission of the
respective department manager (the department manager of the department to
which the item belongs). Such permission shall be granted by the department
manager only in emergency situations. (Ord. 2018-6, 2-15-2018)
1-7B-8: ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS POLICY:
   A.   Introduction: Available electronic communications and information
technology tools present valuable opportunities for the village of Woodridge.
These technologies, when properly used, support our activities and enable us to
better serve our citizens and constituents through closer, more timely
communications and nearly instantaneous access to vast stores of information.
In recognition of these benefits, the village has made a substantial investment
in its electronic communications and information systems. While the village of
Woodridge encourages the use of its systems, such use carries with it important
responsibilities. The careless or inappropriate use of these systems can have
dramatic consequences, harming the village of Woodridge, our citizens and the
individual users of the village's systems. This policy is intended to minimize
the likelihood of such harm by educating users of the village's electronic
communications tools as to proper and improper usage of such tools and by
setting forth the conditions that apply whenever the village's electronic
communications tools are being used. The use of the village's communications
tools is a privilege that may be revoked at any time.
   B.   Applicable Communications Tools: These guidelines address the
appropriate use of the village of Woodridge's electronic "communications
tools". These tools include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Telephones, pagers, cellular phones and voicemail facilities;
      2.   E-mail systems;
      3.   Fax machines, modems and servers;
      4.   Laptop and desktop computers;
      5.   Software licensed to the village of Woodridge; and
      6.   All internal and external computer and communications networks (such
as internet access facilities, browsers, commercial online services, e-mail
systems) accessible directly or indirectly from the village's computer network.
   C.   Conditions Of Access: Access to the village of Woodridge communications
tools is provided in conjunction with the village's business and the job
responsibilities of everyone working on behalf of the village. All use of the
village of Woodridge's communications tools is subject to this policy and to
other village policies and procedures that may be implicated by such use. The
village's communications tools also may be made available to individuals who
are not regularly scheduled employees of the village (i.e., elected and
appointed officials, customers, temporary or seasonal employees, volunteers,
vendors, independent contractors, and subcontractors). Such individual's use of
the village's communications tools is also governed by this policy.
Communications tools and all messages and information produced or carried by
such tools are village property. Communications tools, as well as messages and
information, are subject to inspection by the village at all times.
The village has provided employees with the use of certain equipment. The
village reserves the right to charge an employee a convenience fee, with prior
written notice. This convenience fee may be charged to the employee for their
personal use of village equipment.
All federal, state and local laws regarding the usage of electronic devices
while driving any vehicle apply.
   D.   Acceptable Use: The village's communications tools are to be used to
communicate internally with employees of the village or externally with
citizens, consultants, suppliers, vendors and other business relations and
acquaintances. The village provides electronic communications tools to
facilitate business communications, enhance productivity and improve service to
our customers. The internet may be used for appropriate business uses such as
research, updates of business information or news, or for specifically approved
projects.
As with the telephone, there may be occasion to use these facilities for
personal purposes. Personal use is permitted so long as it does not interfere
with the performance of an employee's job and/or the transaction of the village
of Woodridge business, consume significant resources, give rise to more than
nominal additional costs or interfere with the activities of other employees of
the village.
   E.   Unacceptable Use: All personnel must comply with all state legislation,
which currently bans the following activities:
      1.   Use of all handheld devices while driving.
      2.   Text messaging while driving.
      3.   All cellphone use while driving in school and construction zones.
Employees are required to comply with all subsequent changes in state law which
may prohibit additional types of activities.
Users should not monopolize the village's electronic communications tools to
the exclusion of others. Accordingly, activities such as sending mass e-mails
or e-mails with large attachments that are not business related, sending chain
e-mails, spending excessive amounts of time on the internet, engaging in online
chat groups, printing multiple copies of documents or otherwise creating
unnecessary network traffic are not allowed.
Because audio, video and picture files require significant storage space, files
of this type should not be downloaded unless they are business related.
In addition to the other restrictions and conditions discussed in this policy,
the village's communications tools shall not be used:
      1.   To engage in activities for personal financial gain (i.e., day
trading, gambling); to update personal Facebook, My Space, or other social
networking sites;
      2.   To solicit others for activities unrelated to the village's business
or in connection with political campaigns or lobbying;
      3.   To carry or publish any defamatory, discriminatory, offensive or
obscene material;
      4.   To infringe, attempt to infringe or aid in any way in the
infringement or attempted infringement on another person or entity's
intellectual property rights (i.e., copyrights);
      5.   To violate, attempt to violate or aid in any way in the violation or
attempted violation of any applicable telecommunications license or any laws
that govern transborder data flow (i.e., laws dealing with data collection,
protection, privacy, confidentiality and security);
      6.   To violate, attempt to violate or aid in any way in the violation or
attempted violation of any other law.
The village of Woodridge shall not be responsible for any losses or damages
resulting from, or relating to, any use of the village's communications tools,
which violates this policy. The village will monitor communications for
purposes of ensuring compliance with the village's policies.
   F.   Unacceptable Content: The village's policies prohibiting all forms of
harassment, including sexual harassment, are applicable to the use of the
village's communications tools. In accordance with such policies, material that
is harassing, embarrassing, sexually explicit, profane, pornographic, obscene,
intimidating, defamatory or otherwise unlawful or inappropriate may not be sent
by, displayed on, stored in, accessed from or downloaded to village
communications tools. Users encountering or receiving this kind of material
should immediately delete the material from the system and should not forward
the material to any other person or address. In addition, any user who believes
the village's communications tools are being used in a manner which violates
either this policy or other village of Woodridge policies prohibiting
harassment, should promptly report the incident to his/her supervisor,
department manager, human resources manager, and/or assistant village
administrator. It is the responsibility of all users of the village's
communications tools to see that these tools are used in an efficient, lawful
and ethical manner at all times.
Examples of unacceptable content include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Sexually explicit messages, images, cartoons or jokes;
      2.   Unwelcome propositions, requests for dates or love letters;
      3.   Ethnic, religious or racial slurs; or
      4.   Any other message that could be construed as harassment or
disparagement of others based on sex, race, age, national origin, religion,
disability or sexual orientation.
   G.   Transmitting Confidential Information: Employees have a responsibility
to protect from disclosure, at all times, privileged and confidential
information pertaining to the village of Woodridge or other employees. In cases
where confidential information may need to be transmitted electronically on a
regular basis or in an emergency situation, the IT department should be
consulted regarding the availability of encryption software and other means for
securing the communication.
Note: Only authorized encryption tools may be used in connection with any
village communications tools. All such encryption tools must implement key
recovery or key escrow techniques to permit the village to access and recover
all encrypted information.
   H.   Etiquette And Village Representation: E-mail and voicemail messages
reflect the village's image. Such messages, therefore, should always be
composed in a professional manner that is no different than the manner used to
compose letters or memoranda on village letterhead. Users of the system must
keep in mind that electronic files are subject to discovery and may
subsequently be used in litigation. Inappropriate use of the village's
facilities may damage the village's reputation and could give rise to village
and individual liabilities. Accordingly, every effort must be made to be
professional in all usage of the village's communications tools.
   I.   Expectations Of Privacy: The village of Woodridge respects the personal
privacy of its employees. However, because communications tools are utilized
for the village's business purposes, employee privacy rights in this context
are extremely limited. Users of the village's communications tools should have
no expectation that any information created by, transmitted over, or stored on
the village's communications tools is or will remain private. These systems are
owned and/or controlled by the village of Woodridge and are accessible at all
times by the village without notice for maintenance, upgrades or any other
business or lawful purposes. Use of passwords to gain access to the computer
system or to secure particular files or messages does not imply that users have
an expectation of privacy in any material created or received on the computer
system. The village of Woodridge has global passwords that permit it to access
all material stored on the systems, regardless of whether such material has
been password protected by the user.
Further, all incoming and outgoing transmissions are recorded by the village's
server regardless of whether they are deleted by the end user resulting in a
record of all transmissions.
   J.   Viruses: Viruses can cause substantial damage to electronic
communications and information systems. Each user is responsible for taking
responsible precautions to ensure he or she does not introduce viruses into the
village's network. To that end, all material received on files or other
magnetic or optical medium and all material downloaded from the internet or
from computers or networks that do not belong to the village must be scanned
for viruses and other destructive programs before being placed onto the
village's network. Users should understand also that their home computers and
laptops may contain viruses and that all data or information transferred from
these computers to the village's network must be scanned for viruses.
   K.   Personal Electronic Devices: Employees must be aware that all personal
devices that are connected to the village's network or otherwise used for
village business are subject to the village's policies, technical standards and
protocol. Employees assume all responsibility for the use of personal
technology resources for village business, and the village is not liable for
and will not reimburse employees for any loss or damage to personal technology
resources used in the course of village business.
   L.   Access To Electronic Devices: Employees who utilize personal computers,
digital, electronic storage or communication devices to conduct any village
business must allow the village access to such devices for purposes of
complying with requests for information under the freedom of information act
and as otherwise required to conduct village business. This access to personal
devices includes access to any messages related to village business to comply
with the freedom of information act.
   M.   Recapture Of Village Data: Upon separation from employment, employees
will be required to allow the village to recapture any village data and
property from the employee's personal technology resources.
   N.   Regulation And Enforcement: The assistant village administrator and/or
his/her designee are responsible for monitoring the compliance with the
provisions of these procedures. The assistant village administrator shall also
be responsible for investigation of suspected noncompliance with the provisions
of this policy.
   O.   Misuse Or Policy Violations: Misuse of any of the village's
communications tools or violations of this policy may result in disciplinary
action, including suspension of privileges to user, or up to and including
termination of employment. Criminal or civil action may be initiated in
appropriate instances. Such discipline shall be in accordance with the village
of Woodridge's policies and procedures.
   P.   Liability: The village makes no warranties of any kind, whether
expressed or implied for the service that is the subject of these guidelines.
In addition, the village will not be responsible for any damages whatsoever
which employees may suffer arising from or related to their use of any village
electronic information resources, whether such damages be incidental,
consequential or otherwise, or whether such damages include loss of data
resulting from delays, nondeliveries, mistaken deliveries, or service
interruptions whether caused by village negligence, errors, or omissions. Users
must recognize that the use of village electronic information resources is a
privilege and that the policies implementing usage are requirements that
mandate adherence.
The village will not be responsible for any damages, fines, or penalties
whatsoever which employees may incur arising from their own negligence or their
own failure to comply with all required local, state, and federal
communications regulations, laws, and ordinances.
While following the guidelines of the electronic communications policy, all
other village policies also apply and are in affect at all times. (Ord. 2014-
89, 12-18-2014)
ARTICLE C. SALARY ADMINISTRATION PLAN
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Salary Administration Plan Enumerated
1-7C-2: Plan Administration
1-7C-1: SALARY ADMINISTRATION PLAN ENUMERATED:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created a salary administration plan for all
employees of the village, except those classified as temporary and/or seasonal,
which is designed to:
      1.   Provide a framework for equal compensation for like work of
equivalent responsibility.
      2.   Provide the means by salary increases to reward employees for
continued good and outstanding service.
      3.   Establish salary rates that compare favorably with those of public
and private agencies in the metropolitan area.
   B.   Salary Budget: The village administrator shall, as part of his/her
recommendation to the village board for its consideration, submit a salary
budget for each department of the village. This budget shall be determined
after consideration of the village's current financial condition and shall be
prepared as a percentage of the base salaries which are anticipated to be paid
by each department on January 1 of the current fiscal year.
   C.   Salary Plan Maintenance: The village administrator shall be responsible
to annually develop and recommend to the village board a schedule of salary
ranges for each position in the village service, excluding temporary or
seasonal positions, to be effective on January 1 of the current fiscal year.
Salaries shall be determined with due regard to the grade of salary, requisite
qualifications, prevailing salary rates for comparable work in other public and
private employment in the area, recommendation of the department manager in
accordance with the financial policy of the village and other economic
considerations. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7C-2: PLAN ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Appointment Rate: Original appointments are usually made at the
starting rate of the position's salary range. Upon a recommendation of the
department manager, the village administrator may approve an initial salary at
a rate higher than the minimum rate in the salary range for the position;
provided that any such appointment is based on the outstanding and unusual
character of the employee's experience and ability over and above the minimum
qualifications required for that position.
   B.   Salary Adjustments: Village employees covered under the salary
administration plan may be evaluated for possible salary adjustment at least
once annually, on or about January 1 of each fiscal year.
Salary adjustments within an established range shall not be automatic but shall
be dependent upon the evaluation by the department manager and the approval of
the village administrator based upon standards of performance. Efficiency
measuring devices, such as rating sheets, may be employed to determine an
appropriate salary related to both length of service and performance.
A salary adjustment may not increase the employee's base pay salary to a rate
higher than the maximum allowable rate established for the employee's position.
This section shall not be interpreted to preclude a department manager from
evaluating the performance of employees with or without salary adjustment at
any other time during the year.
   C.   Effects Of Promotion And Demotion: Employees who are promoted to a
higher position having a higher minimum salary rate than the rate currently
paid to the employee shall enter the new position at that minimum rate or at a
rate determined by the department manager and approved by the village
administrator. Employees who are demoted may receive a reduction in salary or
position at the discretion of the department manager with the approval of the
village administrator.
   D.   External Rewards: No rewards in addition to regular compensation shall
be received from any source by individual employees for the performance of
their duties. This provision shall not be deemed to apply to the employee
awards program and/or the employee suggestion program.
   E.   Temporary And Seasonal Employees: Temporary and seasonal employees
shall be paid at an hourly rate determined from time to time by the department
manager and approved by the village administrator.
   F.   Amendments To The Salary Plan: The village administrator may recommend
to the village board amendments to the salary administration plan when in his/
her judgment the salary rate for any position is too high or too low because of
changes in responsibilities or work involved, prevailing salary rates, the
village's financial condition and policies or other pertinent conditions. All
amendments to the salary administration plan shall be made by the village
board.
   G.   Longevity Pay Plan (Revised March 15, 1999): The longevity pay plan for
the village was revised on March 15, 1999, and applies only to employees
(excluding employees classified as temporary or seasonal) hired prior to
September 1, 1982, who had completed six (6) years of service with the village.
Specific questions regarding the longevity pay plan should be directed to human
resources. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
ARTICLE D. AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA)
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Equal Opportunity
1-7D-2: Reasonable Accommodation
1-7D-1: EQUAL OPPORTUNITY:
The village of Woodridge does not discriminate on the basis of disability or
handicap in employment or the provisions of services. It is the intent of the
village to provide people with disabilities equal opportunity to participate in
or enjoy the benefits of village services, programs, or activities, and to
provide a bias free work environment for employees with disabilities. (Ord.
2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7D-2: REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION:
The village of Woodridge will provide a reasonable accommodation to employees
with disabilities, if they request accommodation and the accommodation does not
create an undue hardship. Reasonable accommodation generally involves
modification or adjustment of a job, employment practice, or the work
environment which makes it possible for an individual with a disability to
perform the essential functions of his/her job and/or to otherwise enjoy equal
employment opportunities.
Whenever an employee believes that he/she may need a workplace accommodation,
the employee should complete the ADA reasonable accommodation request form (see
forms folder on "T" drive or contact human resources). Once a reasonable
accommodation request form has been submitted, the employee requesting an
accommodation will be given the opportunity to engage in an interactive
dialogue with the village over the requested accommodation. As part of the
interactive process, the village may request the employee to provide certain
information from his or her healthcare provider related to his or her ability
to perform the essential job functions, with or without reasonable
accommodation. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
ARTICLE E. NO SOLICITATION POLICY
SECTION:
1-7E-1: Employee Solicitation
1-7E-2: Solicitation By Nonemployees
1-7E-3: Posting On Village Bulletin Boards
1-7E-1: EMPLOYEE SOLICITATION:
Soliciting by employees is limited to charitable contributions or assistance to
nonprofit organizations for the benefit of the community. The village of
Woodridge encourages employees to participate in fundraising events to help
individuals, the community, and nonprofit organizations. In doing so, the
employee must complete an authorization request form and must abide by the
internal control procedures outlined in the employee handbook section 9.5 -
fundraising policy. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7E-2: SOLICITATION BY NONEMPLOYEES:
Solicitation and distribution by nonemployees are prohibited at all times on
village property not open to the public or only open to the public for the
purpose of conducting business with the village. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7E-3: POSTING ON VILLAGE BULLETIN BOARDS:
Village bulletin boards are reserved for village business only. The purpose of
bulletin boards is to post materials as may be required by state and federal
law, as well as to communicate departmental and villagewide information.
Employees are prohibited from posting any materials on village bulletin boards
unless directed otherwise by his/her department manager or the assistant
village administrator.
Any exception to this policy must be approved by the village administrator or
his/her designee. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
ARTICLE F. SICK LEAVE BANK
SECTION:
1-7F-1: Purpose
1-7F-2: Eligibility
1-7F-3: Application For Sick Leave Bank Time
1-7F-4: Availability Of Time
1-7F-5: Donations To The Sick Leave Bank
1-7F-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Purpose: Employees who have used all their accrued sick leave, personal
leave, vacation leave and compensatory time may access the sick leave bank,
provided there exists available time. The purpose of this bank is to provide
employees with additional security through donations of time by their fellow
employees. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7F-2: ELIGIBILITY:
Any full or part time employee with one or more years of service is eligible to
receive sick leave bank time. In order to receive sick leave bank time an
employee must have used all of his accrued sick leave, personal leave, vacation
leave and compensatory time. The sick leave bank time will only be available
for the specified illness/injury set forth in the letter request hereinafter
required. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7F-3: APPLICATION FOR SICK LEAVE BANK TIME:
An employee desiring to receive sick leave bank time shall submit a letter
request to his department manager. The letter shall include a report of the
illness or injury necessitating the request. A physician's written statement
must be provided stating the estimated length of time that the employee will be
unable to work. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7F-4: AVAILABILITY OF TIME:
Upon submission of the request, the employee will be notified from time to time
by the assistant village administrator of the availability of sick leave bank
time donated to said employee. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
1-7F-5: DONATIONS TO THE SICK LEAVE BANK:
Donations to the sick leave bank may be made by full time or part time
employees. Donations of time shall be assigned for the use of the individual
specified in the donation deduction sheet (donee) and shall be in increments of
not less than one hour and shall not exceed eight (8) hours. Hours not used by
the donee will be credited proportionately to all those individual donors'
leave banks. Employees may choose to donate vacation, personal or compensatory
time. (Ord. 2014-89, 12-18-2014)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE FINANCES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Village Depositories And Investments
1-8-2: Fees And Delinquency Charges
1-8-3: Annexation Fee
1-8-4: Purchases
1-8-4-1: Purchasing Agent; Authority
1-8-4-2: Purchasing Procedure
1-8-4-3: Waiver Of Bidding Requirements
1-8-4-4: Exemptions From Bidding Requirements
1-8-4-5: Inspection Of Purchased Materials
1-8-5: Annual Budget
1-8-5-1: Passage Of Annual Budget
1-8-5-2: Compilation And Contents Of Budget
1-8-5-3: Capital Improvement, Repair Or Replacement Fund
1-8-5-4: Revision Of Annual Budget
1-8-5-5: Funds For Contingency Purposes
1-8-5-6: Public Inspection, Notice And Hearing On Budget
1-8-1: VILLAGE DEPOSITORIES AND INVESTMENTS:
The Director of Finance is hereby required to keep all funds and money in his
custody belonging to the Village in such places of deposit and/or invested in
such investments as are permitted, and otherwise in compliance with the
Village's investment policy, as is approved from time to time by ordinance or
resolution of the Corporate Authorities.
The Director of Finance shall be discharged from responsibility for all funds
and money which she deposits in places of deposit and/or invests in
investments, while the funds and money are so deposited and/or invested as
permitted, and otherwise in compliance with the Village's investment policy.
(Ord. 2011-03, 3-10-2011)
1-8-2: FEES AND DELINQUENCY CHARGES:
   A.   A ten dollar ($10.00) administrative fee shall be added to each
accounts receivable (billing) generated by the Village, to reimburse the
Village for administrative processing costs incurred with respect to each such
accounts receivable. (Ord. 98-59, 11-12-1998; amd. Ord. 2005-19, 4-7-2005)
Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the administrative fee shall not be
added to accounts receivable for the following fees and charges:
      1.   Water availability and consumption charges.
      2.   Sewer maintenance charges.
      3.   Business license fees.
      4.   Real Estate Transfer Tax.
      5.   Any fees or charges billed to any tax supported governmental unit.
(Ord. 98-59, 11-12-1998)
   B.   An additional twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee shall be charged for any
check or draft remitted to the Village which is returned by the bank because of
insufficient funds, account closed, no account, or stop order on such check or
draft. (Ord. 2003-42, 11-13-2003)
   C.   Except as provided elsewhere in this Code, all accounts receivable
(billings) due the Village shall be due and payable on or before the thirtieth
day after the invoice date. In the event that such amounts due are not received
by the Village within such thirty (30) day period, such amounts due shall be
deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent and thereafter a delinquency
charge of ten percent (10%) per month, or portion thereof, with a minimum
delinquency charge of ten dollars ($10.00) per month, shall be added to the
amount due until such amount due, including all delinquency charges, is
received by the Village. This charge shall be in addition to any other charges
or penalties imposed by law for late payment or nonpayment of funds due the
Village; provided, however, that such charge shall be waived for bills to any
tax supported governmental unit. (Ord. 98-59, 11-12-1998; amd. Ord. 2015-31, 6-
4-2015; Ord. 2017-73, 12-7-2017)
1-8-3: ANNEXATION FEE:
Any person filing an application or petition for annexation of any land to the
Village shall, at the time of filing such application or petition with the
Village Clerk, pay an annexation fee as prescribed by subsection 3-1A-3A of
this Code. This annexation fee shall be applied to defray the costs incurred by
the Village incident to the consideration of the petition for annexation, costs
of referendums, if any, required to be held on the question of annexation,
recording fees and all other such fees, costs and expenses incident to such
annexation. If, prior to the approval of the plat of annexation and of the
annexation ordinance, the costs and expenses incident to such annexation
incurred or to be incurred by the Village are in excess of the amount
previously paid by such applicant for annexation, such cost in excess of the
annexation fee previously paid shall be paid by such applicant to the Village
Clerk prior to the statutory certification by the Village Clerk of the plat of
annexation. (1976 Code §9-6.1; amd. 1991 Code)
1-8-4: PURCHASES 1 :
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-6B-7B3 of this title.
1-8-4-1: PURCHASING AGENT; AUTHORITY:
The Village Administrator, or his designee, shall act as purchasing agent for
the Village, making all purchases required by the Village and selling unused,
worn out, surplus or obsolete equipment and materials. (Ord. 89-62, 11-9-1989;
amd. 1991 Code)
All contracts to be entered into by the Village pursuant to the terms of this
section
1-8-4 shall be executed by the Village Administrator unless otherwise
specifically provided by the Mayor and Board of Trustees. (1976 Code §2-6)
1-8-4-2: PURCHASING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Generally: Whenever it is deemed necessary or desirable that supplies,
materials or equipment be purchased or secured, requisitions thereof shall be
submitted to the Village Administrator specifying the nature of the purchase
desired, the quantity required and the performance requirements to be met. Upon
receipt of any requisition, the Village Administrator shall inquire of
potential suppliers as to the cost of such purchase, in the form of informal
bids, to supply the items or service required. (Ord. 89-62, 11-9-1989; amd.
1991 Code)
If the probable cost thereof will be greater than twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00), he shall resort to formal bidding as hereinafter provided. If the
probable cost will be less than the dollar amount requiring formal bidding, the
requirements set forth in the Village's Purchasing Policy shall be used. (Ord.
89-62, 11-9-1989; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 2006-38, 6-29-2006; Ord. 2018-7, 9-20-
2018)
In the award of nonpublic works contracts for purchase of material and
supplies, a preference shall be shown to recycled materials and supplies. The
Village Administrator shall deem an informal bid to provide recycled materials
or supplies to the lowest bid where the amount of said bid is not greater than
one hundred ten percent (110%) of the amount of the lowest bid to provide
nonrecycled materials or supplies. For the purposes of this subsection,
"recycled materials and supplies" are those which feature a postconsumer waste
content of fifty percent (50%) or greater. To be eligible for the preference
for recycled materials and supplies, the informal bid must include a
certification from the manufacturer stating the recycled content of the
materials or supplies. (Ord. 89-62, 11-9-1989; amd. 1991 Code)
   B.   Formal Bidding: Whenever formal bidding is required hereunder, the
Village Administrator, or his designee, shall prepare or cause to be prepared
specifications for the article required and shall advertise the requirements of
the Village at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the Village.
Such notice shall invite the tender of bids in writing for the furnishing of
such articles, such bids to be publicly opened not less than ten (10) days
following the date of the first advertisement at a time and place specified in
the published notice. The bids shall be opened and read publicly by the Village
Administrator or his designee. An investigation of the responsibility of the
bidders shall be made if the Village Administrator deems it appropriate.
In the award of nonpublic works contracts for the purchase of materials and
supplies, a preference shall be shown to recycled materials and supplies. The
Village Board shall deem a bid to provide recycled materials or supplies to be
the lowest bid where the amount of said bid is not greater than one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the amount of the lowest bid to provide nonrecycled materials
and supplies. For the purposes of this subsection, "recycled materials and
supplies" are those which feature a postconsumer waste content of fifty percent
(50%) or greater. To be eligible for the preference for recycled materials and
supplies, the formal bid must include a certification from the manufacturer
stating the recycled content of the materials or supplies.
The Village Administrator shall report to the Village Board the bids and the
results of any investigation of the responsibility of the bidders and shall
recommend to the Village Board the selection of the lowest responsible bidder,
or if he determines that the interest of the Village would be better served, he
may reject any or all bids.
Contracts for the purchase of articles or services shall be approved as to
form, should the Village Administrator deem necessary, by the Village legal
counsel, and certified as to the availability of funds. (Ord. 89-62, 11-9-1989)
   C.   Purchase Orders: Whenever a purchase is in an amount greater than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), the Village Administrator shall prepare a
purchase order addressed to the successful bidder or vendor, directing him to
supply the goods required in accordance with the terms agreed upon. (1976 Code
§2-4)
1-8-4-3: WAIVER OF BIDDING REQUIREMENTS:
The formal bidding procedures established by this section
1-8-4 may be waived, if authorized by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the
Trustees then holding office. (1976 Code §2-8)
1-8-4-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM BIDDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Emergency Purchases: In the event of disaster or other emergency, if
purchases of supplies, materials or equipment must be made immediately without
an opportunity for the procedures herein or Village Board approval, the Village
Administrator is authorized to make necessary purchases to protect the public
health, safety and welfare without complying with the procedures outlined in
this section
1-8-4. In the event of such emergency purchases, the Village Administrator
shall report the details of the purchases to the Village Board at the next
regular meeting thereof. (Ord. 89-11, 2-23-1989)
   B.   Joint Purchases: All purchases made jointly with the United States
government, State of Illinois, Counties of DuPage and/or Will or other
authorized unit of government are exempted from the formal and informal bid
requirements of subsections
1-8-4-2A and B of this section
1-8-4. (1976 Code §2-9; amd. 1991 Code)
   C.   Articles Purchased For Resale To The Public: All purchases intended
solely for resale to the public are exempted from the formal and informal bid
requirements of subsections
1-8-4-2A and B of this section
1-8-4. (1976 Code §2-10)
1-8-4-5: INSPECTION OF PURCHASED MATERIALS:
The Village Administrator shall inspect or supervise or cause the inspection or
supervision of all deliveries of supplies, materials, equipment or performance
of all contractual services to determine their conformance with the
specifications set forth in or referred to in the order or contract. (1976 Code
§2-5)
1-8-5: ANNUAL BUDGET:
1-8-5-1: PASSAGE OF ANNUAL BUDGET:
The Corporate Authorities shall pass a budget ordinance each year, which shall
be in lieu of passage of the appropriation ordinance as required by section
8-2-9 of the Illinois municipal code. The annual budget need not be published
except in a manner provided for in section
1-8-5-6 of this chapter. The annual budget shall be adopted by the corporate
authorities before the beginning of the fiscal year to which it applies. (Ord.
2011-06, 3-24-2011)
1-8-5-2: COMPILATION AND CONTENTS OF BUDGET:
The budget officer shall compile a budget, such budget to contain estimates of
revenues available to the village for the fiscal year for which the budget is
drafted, together with recommended expenditures for the village and all of the
village's departments, commissions, and boards. Revenue estimates and
expenditure recommendations shall be presented in a manner which is in
conformity with good fiscal management practices. Substantial conformity to a
chart of accounts, now or in the future, recommended by the national committee
on governmental accounting, or the auditor of public accounts of the state of
Illinois, or the division of local governmental affairs and property taxes of
the department of revenue of the state of Illinois or successor agencies shall
be deemed proof of such conformity. The budget shall contain actual or
estimated revenues and expenditures for the two (2) years immediately preceding
the fiscal year for which the budget is prepared. So far as is possible, the
fiscal data for such two (2) preceding fiscal years shall be itemized in a
manner which is in conformity with the chart of accounts approved above. Each
budget shall show the specific fund from which each anticipated expenditure
shall be made. (Ord. 2011-06, 3-24-2011)
1-8-5-3: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT, REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT FUND:
In the preparation by the budget officer of the annual budget, an amount not to
exceed three percent (3%) of the equalized assessed value of property subject
to taxation by the village may be accumulated in a separate fund for the
purpose or purposes of specific capital improvements, repairs, and/or
replacements of specific types of village equipment or other tangible property,
both real and personal, to be designated as the "capital improvement, repair or
replacement fund". Expenditures from the capital improvement repair or
replacement fund shall be budgeted in the fiscal year in which the capital
improvement, repair or replacement will occur. Upon the completion or
abandonment of any object for which the capital improvement, repair or
replacement fund, or should any surplus monies remain after the completion or
abandonment of any object for which the capital improvement, repair or
replacement fund was inaugurated, then such funds no longer necessary for
capital improvement, repair or replacement shall be transferred into the
general corporate fund of the village on the first day of the fiscal year
following such abandonment, completion, or discovery of surplus funds. (Ord.
2011-06, 3-24-2011)
1-8-5-4: REVISION OF ANNUAL BUDGET:
The corporate authorities hereby delegate authority to heads of village
departments, commissions, or boards to delete, add to, change or create
subclasses within object classes budgeted previously to the department,
commission, or board, subject to the prior approval of the budget officer;
provided, however, that no revision of the budget shall be made which increases
the overall budget for any fund without approval by a vote of two-thirds (2/3)
of the members of the corporate authorities then holding office. No revision of
the budget shall be made increasing the budget in the event funds are not
available to effectuate the purpose of the revision. (Ord. 2011-06, 3-24-2011)
1-8-5-5: FUNDS FOR CONTINGENCY PURPOSES:
The annual budget may contain money set aside for contingency purposes not to
exceed ten percent (10%) of the total budget, less the amount set aside for
contingency purposes, which monies may be expended for contingencies upon a
majority vote of the corporate authorities then holding office. (Ord. 2011-06,
3-24-2011)
1-8-5-6: PUBLIC INSPECTION, NOTICE AND HEARING ON BUDGET:
The corporate authorities shall make the tentative annual budget conveniently
available to public inspection for at least ten (10) days prior to the passage
of the annual budget, by publication in the journal of the proceedings of the
corporate authorities or in such other form as the corporate authorities may
prescribe. Not less than one week after the publication of the tentative annual
budget, and prior to final action on the budget, the corporate authorities
shall hold at least one public hearing on the tentative annual budget, after
which hearing or hearings the tentative budget may be further revised and
passed without any further inspection, notice or hearing. Notice of this
hearing shall be given by publication in a newspaper having a general
circulation in the village at least one week prior to the time of the hearing.
(Ord. 2011-06, 3-24-2011)
CHAPTER 9
REVENUE BONDS
ARTICLE A. RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE REVENUE BONDS
SECTION:
1-9A-1: Purpose
1-9A-2: Powers To Accomplish Purposes
1-9A-3: Definitions
1-9A-4: Exercise Of Powers Relative To Bonds
1-9A-5: Covenants In Bonds
1-9A-6: Signatures Required; Validity Of Bonds
1-9A-7: Bond Security
1-9A-8: Liability For Bonds
1-9A-9: Investment Of Funds
1-9A-10: Exemption From Construction And Bidding Requirements
1-9A-11: Provisions Are Additional
1-9A-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared that the purpose of this Article is to
provide a means of financing the cost of residential ownership that will
provide decent, safe and sanitary housing for residents of the Municipality at
prices they can afford; it is further determined that such residential
ownership will:
   A.   Provide for and promote the public health, safety, morals and welfare;
   B.   Assist low and moderate income persons in acquiring and owning decent,
safe, and sanitary housing which they can afford;
   C.   Promote the integration of families of varying economic means; and
   D.   Preserve and increase the Municipality's ad valorem tax base; and the
foregoing are hereby determined and declared to be public purposes and
functions pertaining to the government and affairs of the Municipality. (1976
Code §2-21)
1-9A-2: POWERS TO ACCOMPLISH PURPOSES:
In addition to powers which the Municipality may now have, the Municipality
shall have all powers necessary to accomplish the purposes of this Article,
including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Home Mortgages: The Municipality shall have the power to:
      1.   Acquire and contract and enter into advance commitments to acquire
home mortgages owned by lending institutions at such purchase prices and upon
such other terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Municipality or
such other person as it may designate as its agent; to make and execute
contracts with lending institutions for the origination and servicing of home
mortgages; and to pay the reasonable value of services rendered under those
contracts.
      2.   Establish, by rules or regulations, in ordinances relating to any
issuance of bonds or in any financing documents relating to such issuance, such
standards and requirements applicable to the purchase of home mortgages as the
Municipality deems necessary or desirable, including but not limited to:
         a.   The time within which lending institutions must make commitments
and disbursements for home mortgages;
         b.   The location and other characteristics of homes to be financed by
home mortgages;
         c.   The terms and conditions of home mortgages to be acquired;
         d.   The amounts and types of insurance coverage required on homes,
home mortgages, and bonds;
         e.   The representations and warranties of lending institutions
confirming compliance with such standards and requirements;
         f.   Restrictions as to interest rate and other terms of home
mortgages or the return realized therefrom by lending institutions;
         g.   The type and amount of collateral security to be provided to
assure repayment of bonds; and
         h.   Any other matters related to the purchase of home mortgages as
shall be deemed relevant by the Municipality.
      3.   Require from each lending institution from which home mortgages are
purchased the submission, at the time of such purchase, of evidence
satisfactory to the Municipality of the ability and intention of such lending
institution to make home mortgages, and the submission, within the time
specified by the Municipality for making disbursements for home mortgages, of
evidence satisfactory to the Municipality of the making of home mortgages and
of compliance with any standards and requirements established by the
Municipality.
      4.   Make and execute contracts with real estate developers upon such
terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Municipality or such other
person as it may designate as its agent in order to stimulate the building of
homes which may become subject to home mortgages.
   B.   Bonds: The Municipality shall have the power to:
      1.   Issue bonds to defray, in whole or in part:
         a.   The costs of purchasing home mortgages;
         b.   The costs of studies and surveys, insurance premiums,
underwriting fees, legal accounting and marketing services incurred in
connection with the issuance and sale of such bonds, including bond and
interest reserve accounts and trustee, custodian and rating agency fees; and
         c.   Such other costs as are reasonably related to the foregoing.
      2.   Sell or otherwise dispose of any home mortgages, in whole or in
part, so that the revenues and receipts to be derived with respect to the home
mortgages, together with any insurance proceeds, reserve accounts and earnings
thereon shall be designed to produce revenues and receipts at least sufficient
to provide for the prompt payment at maturity of principal, interest and
redemption premiums, if any, upon all bonds issued to finance such costs.
      3.   Pledge any revenues and receipts to be received from any home
mortgages to the punctual payment of bonds authorized under this Article, and
the interest and redemption premiums, if any, thereon.
      4.   Mortgage, pledge or grant security interests in any home mortgages,
notes or other property in favor of the holder or holders of bonds issued
therefor.
      5.   Sell and convey any home mortgages for such prices and at such times
as the governing body of the Municipality may determine.
      6.   Issue its bonds to refund in whole or in part at any time bonds
theretofore issued by the Municipality under authority of this Article.
      7.   Make and execute contracts and other instruments necessary or
convenient to the exercise of any of the powers granted herein.
Bonds shall not be issued under the powers granted by this Article unless such
bonds are rated "A" or better by one of the nationally-recognized rating
agencies. (1976 Code §2-22)
1-9A-3: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this Article, each of the following shall have the meanings
indicated unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
BONDS: The revenue bonds authorized under this Article and includes notes and
any and all other limited obligations payable as provided hereunder.
HOME: Real property and improvements thereon located within the Municipality
consisting of a single-family residence, including condominium and townhouse
units, owned by mortgagors who occupy or intend to occupy such residence.
HOME MORTGAGE: An interest-bearing loan to a mortgagor for the purpose of
purchasing a home, evidenced by a promissory note and secured by a mortgage on
such home, but shall not include a loan primarily for the purpose of
refinancing an existing loan.
LENDING INSTITUTION: Any bank, trust company, savings bank, national banking
association, savings and loan association, building and loan association,
mortgage banker or other financial institution or governmental agency which
customarily provides service or otherwise aids in the financing of mortgages on
single-family residential housing located in the Municipality or any holding
company for any of the foregoing.
MORTGAGOR: A person or persons who have received a home mortgage on a home and
whose adjusted gross aggregate income, together with the adjusted gross
aggregate income of all persons who intend to reside with such person or
persons in such dwelling unit, shall not have been greater than fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) for the immediately preceding taxable year. (1976 Code §2-
20)
MUNICIPALITY: The Village of Woodridge, DuPage and Will Counties, Illinois.
(1976 Code §2-20; 1991 Code)
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, lending institution, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, State agency or any other legal entity, or its
legal representative, agent or assigns.
REAL ESTATE DEVELOPER: Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the trade or
business of building single-family residential housing for sale. (1976 Code §2-
20)
1-9A-4: EXERCISE OF POWERS RELATIVE TO BONDS:
The exercise of any or all powers granted by this Article may be authorized and
the bonds may be authorized to be issued under this Article for the purposes
set forth in this Article, by ordinance of the governing body of the
Municipality, and said ordinance may be adopted at the same meeting at which it
is introduced and shall take effect immediately upon adoption. Any such
ordinance shall set forth a legislative finding and declaration (i) of the
public purpose therefor and (ii) that such ordinance is being enacted pursuant
to the powers granted by this Article.
The bonds shall bear interest at such rate or rates, may be payable at such
times, may be in one or more series, may bear such date or dates, may mature at
such time or times not exceeding forty (40) years from their respective dates,
may be payable in such medium of payment at such place or places, may carry
such registration privileges, may be subject to such terms of redemption at
such premiums, may be executed in such manner, may contain such terms,
covenants and conditions, may be in such form, either coupon or registered, and
may bear such name as such ordinance may provide. The bonds may be sold at
private sale in such manner and upon such terms as may be provided in such
ordinance. Pending the preparation of definitive bonds, interim receipts or
certificates in such form and with such provisions as may be provided in such
ordinance, may be issued to the purchaser or purchasers of bonds sold pursuant
to this Article. The bonds and interim receipts or certificates shall be deemed
to be securities and negotiable instruments within the meaning and for all
purposes of the Uniform Commercial Code. (1976 Code §2-23)
1-9A-5: COVENANTS IN BONDS:
Any ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds authorized under this Article
may contain covenants as to:
   A.   The use and disposition of the revenues and receipts from any home
mortgages for which the bonds are to be issued, including the creation and
maintenance of reserves;
   B.   The insurance to be carried on any home, home mortgage or bonds and the
use and disposition of insurance moneys;
   C.   The appointment of one or more banks or trust companies within or
outside the State of Illinois having the necessary trust powers as trustee and/
or custodian for the benefit of the bondholder, paying agent or bond registrar;
   D.   The investment of any funds held by such trustee or custodian;
   E.   The maximum interest rate payable on any home mortgage;
   F.   The use and disposition of any revenues and receipts from any contracts
entered into with real estate developers; and
   G.   The terms and conditions upon which the holders of the bonds or any
portion thereof, or any trustee therefor, are entitled to the appointment of a
receiver by a court of competent jurisdiction, and said terms and conditions
may provide that the receiver may enter and take possession of the home
mortgages, or any part thereto, and maintain, sell or otherwise dispose of such
mortgages, prescribe other payments and collect, receive and apply all income
and revenues thereafter arising therefrom.
Any ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds under this Article shall
provide that the principal of and interest on any bonds issued under this
Article shall be secured by a mortgage, pledge, security interest, insurance
agreement or indenture of trust covering such home mortgages for which the
bonds are issued and may include any improvements or extensions thereafter
made. Such mortgage, pledge, security interest, insurance agreement or
indenture of trust may contain such covenants and agreements to properly
safeguard the bonds as may be provided for in the ordinance authorizing such
bonds and shall be executed in the manner as may be provided for in the
ordinance. The provisions of this Article and any such ordinance and any such
mortgage, pledge, security interest or indenture of trust shall constitute a
contract with the holder or holders of the bonds and continue in effect until
the principal of, the interest on, and the redemption premiums, if any, on the
bonds so issued have been fully paid or provision made therefor, and the duties
of the Municipality and its corporate authorities and officers under this
Article and any such ordinance and any such mortgage, pledge, security interest
or indenture of trust shall be enforceable as provided therein by any
bondholder or mandamus, foreclosure of any such mortgage, pledge, security
interest or indenture of trust or other appropriate suit, action or proceeding
in any court of competent jurisdiction; provided the ordinance or any mortgage,
pledge, security interest or indenture of trust under which the bonds are
issued may provide that all such remedies and rights to enforcement may be
vested in a trustee (with full power of appointment) for the benefit of all the
bondholders, which trustee shall be subject to the control of such number of
holders or owners of any outstanding bonds as provided therein. (1976 Code §2-
24)
1-9A-6: SIGNATURES REQUIRED; VALIDITY OF BONDS:
The bonds shall bear the manual or facsimile signatures of such officers of the
Municipality as may be designated in the ordinance authorizing such bonds and
such signatures shall be the valid and binding signatures of the officer of the
Municipality, notwithstanding that before the delivery thereof and payment
therefor, any or all of the persons whose signatures appear thereon have ceased
to be officers of the Municipality issuing such bonds. The validity of the
bonds is not dependent on nor affected by the validity or regularity of any
proceedings relating to the home mortgages for which the bonds are issued. The
ordinance authorizing the bonds may provide that the bonds shall contain a
recital that they are issued pursuant to this Article, which recital shall be
conclusive evidence of their validity and of the regularity of their issuance.
(1976 Code, §2-25)
1-9A-7: BOND SECURITY:
Bonds issued under this Article shall be secured by a pledge of or lien upon
the revenues and receipts derived from the home mortgages with respect to which
the bonds have been issued. (1976 Code §2-26)
1-9A-8: LIABILITY FOR BONDS:
All bonds issued under and pursuant to this Article shall be limited
obligations of the Municipality payable solely out of the revenues and receipts
derived from the home mortgages or from any notes of other obligations of
lending institutions with respect to which such bonds are issued. No holder of
any bonds issued under this Article has the right to compel any exercise of the
taxing power of the Municipality to pay the bonds, the interest or redemption
premium, if any, thereon, and the bonds shall not constitute an indebtedness of
the Municipality or a loan of credit thereof within the meaning of any
constitutional or statutory provision, nor shall the bonds be construed to
create any moral obligation on the part of the Municipality or any political
subdivisions thereof with respect to the payment of such bonds. It shall be
plainly stated on the face of each bond that it has been issued under the
provisions of this Article and that it does not constitute an indebtedness of
the Municipality or a loan of credit thereof within the meaning of any
constitutional or statutory provisions. (1976 Code §2-27)
1-9A-9: INVESTMENT OF FUNDS:
The Municipality, or any trustee or custodian on behalf of the Municipality,
may invest any funds held by it as provided in the ordinance authorizing the
issuance of bonds. (1976 Code §2-28)
1-9A-10: EXEMPTION FROM CONSTRUCTION AND BIDDING REQUIREMENTS:
Any requirement of competitive bidding or restriction imposed on the procedure
for award of contracts for the sale or other disposition of property of the
Municipality is not applicable to any action taken under authority of this
Article. (1976 Code §2-29)
1-9A-11: PROVISIONS ARE ADDITIONAL:
The powers conferred by this Article are in addition and supplemental to, and
the limitations imposed by this Article shall not affect the powers conferred
by any other ordinance. Home mortgages may be acquired, purchased, and
financed, and bonds may be issued under this Article for such purposes,
notwithstanding that any law or any other ordinance may provide for the
acquisition, purchase and financing of like home mortgages or the issuance of
bonds for like purposes and without regard to the requirements, restrictions,
limitations or other provisions contained in any law or any other ordinances.
(1976 Code §2-30)
ARTICLE B. COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL REVENUE BONDS
SECTION:
1-9B-1: Purpose
1-9B-2: Powers To Accomplish Purpose
1-9B-3: Definitions
1-9B-4: Bond Ordinance Required
1-9B-5: General Provisions
1-9B-6: Covenants In Bonds
1-9B-7: Signatures Required; Validity Of Bonds
1-9B-8: Bond Security
1-9B-9: Liability For Bonds
1-9B-10: Fee And Deposit
1-9B-11: Investment Of Funds
1-9B-12: Village Exempt From Certain Requirements
1-9B-13: Disclosure Of Interest
1-9B-14: Powers Are Additional
1-9B-15: Litigation Limitation
1-9B-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared that the purpose of this Article is to
provide a financing device which will aid in financing the cost of projects;
and the same is hereby declared and determined to be a public purpose and
function pertaining to the government and affairs of the Village. (1976 Code
§2-32)
1-9B-2: POWERS TO ACCOMPLISH PURPOSE:
In addition to powers which it may now have, the Village shall have the power
under this Article:
   A.   To construct, acquire by gift, purchase or lease, reconstruct, improve,
better or extend, or to finance one or more projects, whether or not now or
hereafter in existence, within or without the Village, or partially within or
partially without the Village, but in no event further than ten (10) miles from
the territorial boundaries of the Village, and, if deemed by the corporate
authorities to be desirable, to acquire by gift, lease or purchase lands or
rights in land in connection with any project.
   B.   To issue its bonds to defray in whole or in part the project costs of
any project which bonds shall be issued pursuant to a bond ordinance
authorizing the same.
   C.   To pledge to the punctual payment of bonds authorized under this
Article, the interest thereon, and the redemption premiums, if any, the revenue
and receipts to be received pursuant to revenue agreement provisions.
   D.   To mortgage or grant a security interest in any project in favor of the
holder or holders of bonds issued therefor. (1976 Code §2-33)
   E.   To issue its bonds to refund or repay in whole or in part bonds or
other indebtedness theretofore issued by the Village under the authority of
this Article or other indebtedness issued by any other entity under applicable
law to finance or refinance costs of acquiring, constructing or equipping a
project. (Ord. 97-57, 10-9-1997)
   F.   To assign and pledge to the holders of any bonds or the trustee all or
any part of the Village's interest in and rights under a revenue agreement
relating to any project.
   G.   To rent, lease, sell or enter into any type of other agreement with any
user, or to loan the proceeds of its bonds to any user in such manner that
rents or other payments to be derived with respect to any project are fixed and
revised from time to time so as to produce income and revenue sufficient to
provide for the prompt payment of principal, interest, redemption premiums and
all other costs of such bonds issued pursuant to this Article, and to create a
sinking fund to pay the principal of such bonds when due, and to provide for
the operation and maintenance of such project and for an adequate depreciation
account in connection therewith so that such bonds will never constitute an
indebtedness of the Village or a loan of its credit within the meaning of any
constitutional or statutory provision.
   H.   To sell and convey any project, including without limitation the sale
and conveyance thereof, subject to a mortgage or security interest, if any, as
provided in this Article, for such price and at such time as the corporate
authorities may determine; provided, however, no sale or conveyance of any
project shall ever be made in such manner as to impair the rights or interests
of the holder or holders of any bonds issued to finance the project costs of
such project.
The Village shall be exempt from the imposition and collection of taxes with
respect to property acquired by the Village pursuant to the provisions of this
Article while such property is owned by the Village, but the user of such
property shall be subject to taxation as if the user were the owner of such
property. (1976 Code §2-33)
1-9B-3: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this Article, unless a different meaning clearly appears from
the context, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed
to them, as follows:
BOND ORDINANCE: An ordinance authorizing a specific issue of bonds adopted by
the corporate authorities of the Village in accordance with the policies and
procedures set forth in this Code.
BONDS: Commercial and industrial revenue bonds.
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROJECT: Any capital project including: buildings,
structures, systems, fixtures, improvements, additions, machinery or equipment
or any combination or portion thereof, and all real and personal property
deemed necessary in connection therewith, whether or not on the same site or
sites now existing or hereafter acquired, for use by any person in connection
with the following commercial and industrial purposes, including, but not
limited to: manufacturing, processing, assembling, packaging, fabricating or
other industrial enterprises; any commercial facilities for storage,
warehousing, distribution, repair, overhaul or other such services, freight
terminal, test facility, retail or wholesale sales, or other commercial
enterprises; any office facilities designed for use by one or more commercial
or industrial enterprises; any facilities for research and development of new
products or new processes; any multi-family residential rental housing; and
including also the sites thereof and other rights and land, or interest in land
thereof, whether improved or unimproved, site preparation and landscaping, and
all appurtenances and facilities incidental thereto, including, but not limited
to: utilities, access roads, railroad sidings, truck docking and similar
facilities, parking facilities, dockage, wharfage and other improvements
necessary or convenient thereto; or any land, buildings, machinery or equipment
comprising in addition to, or renovation, rehabilitation or improvement of, any
existing capital project.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Woodridge, DuPage and Will Counties, Illinois.
MAY: Is permissive.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, limited partnership, firm,
company, corporation (including public utilities), not-for-profit corporations,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, political subdivision, State
agency, or any other legal entity or organization of any kind, or their legal
representative, agent or assigns.
POLLUTION: Any form of environmental pollution including, but not limited to,
water pollution, air pollution, land pollution, solid waste pollution,
pollution by hazardous chemicals and other substances, thermal pollution,
radiation contamination, noxious odors or noise pollution as determined by the
various standards prescribed by the Village, the State of Illinois, or of the
United States Government and including, but not limited to, anything which is
considered as pollution or environmental damage in the Environmental Protection
Act, compiled as 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 through 5/51 and any
amendment thereto and substitution therefor.
POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY: Any land, interest in land, building, structure,
facility, system, fixture, improvement, addition, appurtenance, device,
machinery or equipment, or any combination or portion thereof, and all real and
personal property deemed necessary therewith, having to do with or the end
purpose of which is, reducing, controlling or preventing pollution.
PROJECT: Any commercial and industrial project or pollution control facility or
any combination thereof located within the Village.
PROJECT COSTS: Includes the sum total of all costs incidental to the
acquisition, construction, reconstruction, repair, alteration, improvement and
extension of a project, including without limitation: the cost of studies and
surveys; plans, specifications, architectural, engineering, legal, marketing or
other special services; financing, acquisition, demolition, construction,
equipment and site development of new and rehabilitated buildings,
rehabilitation, reconstruction, repair or remodeling of existing buildings and
all other necessary and incidental expenses including an initial bond and
interest reserve together with interest on bonds issued to finance a project
pursuant to this Article, to a date six (6) months subsequent to the date of
completion.
REVENUE AGREEMENT: Any lease, sale agreement, loan agreement, note, contract or
other agreement with any user entered into in order to secure the Village's
bonds; provided, however, that any such agreement must provide that such user
shall pay or provide for the payment to, for or on behalf of the Village an
amount sufficient to pay principal, interest, redemption premiums and any and
all other costs in connection with projects financed, the Village's bonds so
that such bonds will never constitute an indebtedness of the Village, or a loan
of its credit within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory provision.
SHALL AND MUST: Each is mandatory and not merely directory.
USER: The person or persons who will occupy, operate, maintain or employ the
project after acquisition or construction thereof whether as owner, purchaser,
lessee or otherwise.
VILLAGE: The Village of Woodridge, DuPage and Will Counties, Illinois, an
Illinois municipal corporation. (1976 Code §2-31; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 97-57,
10-9-1997)
1-9B-4: BOND ORDINANCE REQUIRED:
No bonds may be issued under this Article unless the bond ordinance is approved
by the affirmative vote of three-fifths (3/5) of the corporate authorities.
(1976 Code §2-34.2)
The exercise of all powers granted by this Article shall be authorized and such
bonds shall be authorized by the bond ordinance which shall be adopted in
accordance with this Code. (1976 Code §2-34)
1-9B-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The bonds shall bear interest at such rate or rates without regard to any
limitation in any other law, payable at such times, may be in one or more
series, may bear such date or dates, may mature at such time or times not
exceeding forty (40) years from their respective dates, may be payable in such
medium of payment at such place or places, may carry such registration
privileges, may be subject to such terms of redemption at such premiums, may be
executed in such manner, may contain such terms, covenants and conditions, and
may be in such form, either coupon or registered, as such bond ordinance or
subsequent bond ordinances may provide. The bonds may be sold in such manner
and upon such terms as may be deemed advisable by the corporate authorities,
and may be authenticated by a trustee pursuant to an appropriate legend to be
found on the face of the bonds. Pending the preparation of the definitive
bonds, interim receipts or certificates in such form and with such provisions
as the corporate authorities may determine, may be issued to the purchaser or
purchasers of bonds sold pursuant to this Article. The bonds and interim
receipts or certificates shall be deemed to be securities and negotiable
instruments within the meaning and for all purposes of the Uniform Commercial
Code. (1976 Code §2-34)
1-9B-6: COVENANTS IN BONDS:
Any bond ordinance may contain covenants as to:
   A.   The use and disposition of the revenues and receipts from any revenue
agreements, or with respect to the project for which the bonds are to be
issued, including the creation and maintenance of reserves;
   B.   The issuance of other or additional bonds relating to any project;
   C.   The maintenance and repair of any projects;
   D.   The insurance to be carried thereon and the use and disposition of
insurance monies;
   E.   The appointment of any bank or trust company within or outside of the
State having the necessary trust powers as trustee for the benefit of the
bondholder's paying agent and bond registrar;
   F.   The investment of any funds held by such trustee;
   G.   The terms and conditions upon which the holders of the bonds or any
portion thereof or any trustee therefor are entitled to the appointment of a
receiver by the chancery court, which court has jurisdiction in such
proceedings, and which receiver may enter and take possession of the project if
it is then owned by the Village and lease, sell or otherwise dispose of it and
maintain it, prescribe rentals or other payments and collect, receive and apply
all income and revenues thereafter arising therefrom in the same manner and to
the same extent as the Village itself might do.
Any bond ordinance may provide that the principal of and interest on any bonds
issued under this Article shall be secured by a mortgage or deed of trust
covering the project for which the bonds are issued and may include any
improvements or extensions thereafter made. Such mortgage or deed of trust may
contain such covenants and agreements to properly safeguard the bonds as may be
provided in the bond ordinance, but not inconsistent with this Article and
shall be executed in the manner provided for in the bond ordinance. A mortgage
or deed of trust by which a security interest is created or a financing
statement relating thereto need not be filed or recorded under the Uniform
Commercial Code, or otherwise, except in the records of the Village. The
provisions of this Article and any such bond ordinance or bond ordinances, and
any such mortgage or deed of trust shall constitute a contract with the holder
or holders of the bonds and continues in effect until the principal of, the
interest on, the redemption premiums, if any, on the bonds so issued have been
made as provided in the bond ordinance, and the duties of the Village and its
corporate authorities and officers under this Article and any bond ordinance,
and any such mortgage or deed of trust shall be enforceable by mandamus,
foreclosure of any such mortgage or deed of trust or other appropriate suit,
action or proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction, provided the bond
ordinance or any mortgage or deed of trust under which the bonds are issued may
provide that all such remedies and rights to enforcement may be vested in a
trustee for the benefit of all the bondholders, which trustee shall be subject
to the control of a majority of the holders or owners of any outstanding bonds.
(1976 Code §2-34.3)
1-9B-7: SIGNATURES REQUIRED; VALIDITY OF BONDS:
The bonds shall bear the signatures of such officers of the Village as may be
designated in the bond ordinance and such signatures shall be the valid and
binding signatures of such officers; provided, that if any such officer has
filed his signature with the Secretary of State of the State of Illinois in
accordance with the provisions of the Uniform Facsimile Signature of Public
Officials Act 1 , the bonds may bear the facsimile signature of such officer
and such facsimile signature shall be the valid and binding signature of such
officer. The bonds bearing the signatures of officers in office on the date of
the signing thereof are valid and binding obligations, notwithstanding that
before the delivery thereof and payment therefor, any or all of the persons
whose signatures appear thereon have ceased to be officers of the Village. The
validity of the bonds is not dependent on nor affected by the validity or
regularity of any proceedings related to the acquisition, purchase,
construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipping, betterment or extension
of the project for which the bonds are issued. The bond ordinance may provide
that the bonds shall contain a recital that they are issued pursuant to 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74-1 et seq., and this Article, or, if
appropriate, that they are issued pursuant to the Village's home rule authority
and this Article, which recital is conclusive evidence of their validity and of
the regularity of their issuance. (1976 Code §2-34.4; amd. Ord. 97-57, 10-9-
1997)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 320/1 et seq.
1-9B-8: BOND SECURITY:
All bonds issued under this Article have a lien upon the revenues and receipts
derived from any revenue agreement between the Village and the user; and the
corporate authorities may provide in the bond ordinance for the issuance of
additional bonds to be equally and ratably secured by a lien upon such revenues
and receipts or may provide that the lien upon such revenues and receipts is
subordinated. (1976 Code §2-34.5)
1-9B-9: LIABILITY FOR BONDS:
   A.   All bonds issued under and pursuant to this Article shall be limited
obligations of the Village payable solely out of the revenues and receipts
derived from such revenue agreement. No holder of any bonds issued under this
Article has the right to compel any exercise of taxing power of the Village to
pay the bonds or the interest thereon, and the bonds do not constitute an
indebtedness of the Village or a loan of credit thereof within the meaning of
any constitutional or statutory provisions. It shall be plainly stated on the
face of each bond that it has been issued under the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-74-1 et seq., and this Article, or, if appropriate,
pursuant to the Village's home rule powers and this Article, and that it does
not constitute an indebtedness of the Village or a loan of credit thereof
within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory provisions. (1976 Code
§2-34.6; amd. Ord. 97-57, 10-9-1997)
   B.   No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal, premium, if
any, and interest on any bonds or for any claim based thereon or upon any
provisions contained in any bond ordinance, revenue agreement or any other
documents herein authorized to be executed in connection with the issuance of
bonds pursuant to this Article, against any past, present or future officer,
member of the corporate authorities or employee of the Village. (1976 Code §2-
35.5)
1-9B-10: FEE AND DEPOSIT:
   A.   Financing Fee: The Village shall charge a financing fee each time that
bonds are issued by it as provided in this Article. Said fee shall be
determined from time to time by adoption of a separate resolution by the
corporate authorities. Financing fees shall be deemed reimbursement to the
Village for costs incurred by the Village in reviewing, evaluating and
administering any bond issue, and shall be a project cost in addition to those
costs described in Section
1-9B-3 of this Article.
The Village may waive any or all financing fees provided for in this subsection
when, in the opinion of bond counsel, such waiver is necessary as a result of
applicable Federal rules and regulations in force at any given time. (1976 Code
§2-35.7)
   B.   Deposit: Any person requesting the Village to finance any project by
issuance of its bonds shall make a nonrefundable deposit with the Village
Administrator in an amount determined from time to time by adoption of a
separate resolution by the corporate authorities. Said deposit shall reimburse
the Village for its preliminary expenses in investigating the desirability and
feasibility of such financing. Upon the adoption of a resolution indicating the
Village's intent to issue a specific amount of bonds for the proposed project,
an additional deposit equal to one-half (1/2) of the financing fee shall be
paid to the Village. Said deposits shall be disbursed by the Village in payment
of the Village's expenses notwithstanding that financing is not completed;
however, said deposits may be repaid as a project cost from the proceedings of
any bonds issued to finance the project. (1976 Code §2-35.8)
1-9B-11: INVESTMENT OF FUNDS:
The Village, or any Trustee on behalf of the Village, may invest any funds held
by it, pursuant to this Article, in bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness,
Treasury bills or other securities constituting direct obligations of the
United States of America, in certificates of deposit, repurchase agreements or
the deposits constituting direct obligations of any bank as defined by the
Illinois Banking Act 1 , as heretofore and hereafter amended; provided,
however, that investments may be made only in those certificates of deposit,
repurchase agreements or time deposits in banks which are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, if then in existence, or in short-term
discount obligations of the Federal National Mortgage Association, or as
provided for in a trust indenture and not otherwise prohibited by law. Any such
securities may be purchased at the offering or market price thereof at the time
of such purchase. (1976 Code §2-35.2; amd. Ord. 97-57, 10-9-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. 205 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
1-9B-12: VILLAGE EXEMPT FROM CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Obtaining Certificate, Franchise, License, Etc.: It is not necessary
for the Village, proceeding under this Article, to obtain any certificate of
convenience or necessity, franchise, license, permit or other authorization
from any bureau, board, commission or other lay instrumentality of the State in
order to acquire, construct, purchase, reconstruct, improve, better or extend
any industrial project or for the issuance of bonds in connection therewith.
(1976 Code §2-35)
   B.   Construction And Bidding Requirements For Public Buildings: All
expenditures made by the Village in connection with the provisions of this
Article are exempted from the formal and informal bidding requirements of this
Code 1 . The acquisition and construction of a project shall not be subject to
any requirements relating to public buildings, structures, grounds, works or
improvements imposed by the Illinois Compiled Statutes, or by this Title, or
any other similar requirements which may be lawfully waived by this Article,
and any requirement of competitive bidding or restriction imposed on the
procedure for award of contracts for such purpose or the lease, sale or other
disposition of property of the Village is not applicable to any action taken
under authority of this Article. (1976 Code §2-35.1)
   C.   Title To The Project: It shall not be necessary for the Village to own
or acquire any project or part thereof financed hereunder. (1976 Code §2-34.1)
 
Notes
1 2. See Section
  1-8-4 of this Title.
1-9B-13: DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST:
Any member of the corporate authorities of the Village shall disclose any
pecuniary interest in any employment, financing, agreement or other contract
made under the provisions of this Article before any action by the corporate
authorities on it, and shall not vote on any such matter. Notwithstanding the
provisions of any other law, any financing agreement or other contract made or
procured in conformity with the provisions of this Section shall not be void by
reason of the pecuniary interest of any member of the corporate authorities of
the Village therein nor shall such person be subject to any penalty by reason
of the making or procuring thereof. (1976 Code §2-35.3)
1-9B-14: POWERS ARE ADDITIONAL:
The powers conferred by this Article are in addition and supplemental to, and
the limitations imposed by this Article shall not affect the powers conferred
by any law or any other ordinance. Projects may be acquired, purchased,
constructed, reconstructed, improved, bettered, equipped, extended and
financed, and bonds may be issued under this Article for such purposes,
notwithstanding that any law or any other ordinance may provide for the
acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipping,
betterment, extension and financing of a like project, or the issuance of bonds
for like purposes, and without regard to the requirements, restrictions,
limitations or other provisions contained in any law or any other ordinance.
(1976 Code §2-35.4)
1-9B-15: LITIGATION LIMITATION:
No action shall be brought questioning the legality of any revenue agreement or
bonds executed in connection with any commercial and industrial project or
pollution control facility authorized by this Article on or after thirty (30)
days from the effective date of the ordinance authorizing the issuance of such
bonds. (1976 Code §2-35.6)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Appointments And Terms; Chairperson; Vacancies And Removals
2-1-2: Qualifications
2-1-3: Organization
2-1-4: Assistance From Village Officers
2-1-5: Compensation And Expenses
2-1-6: Speaking At Meetings
2-1-7: Recording At Meetings
2-1-1: APPOINTMENTS AND TERMS; CHAIRPERSON; VACANCIES AND REMOVALS:
   A.   Appointments: All appointments to advisory boards and commissions shall
be made by the Mayor, subject to the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. On or about May 1 of each year, the Mayor shall, subject to the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, designate one member of each board
and commission as Chairperson for a term ending the following April 30 and
until his or her successor has been appointed and has qualified.
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Chairperson of
the Police Pension Board shall be appointed as provided by Illinois State law.
(1976 Code §2-108; amd. Ord. 94-05, 2-10-1994)
   B.   Terms Of Office: Terms of office for advisory boards and commissions
shall be for a three (3) year period.
   C.   Vacancy: In the event a vacancy occurs in a board or commission for any
reason, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor, with the
concurrence of the Board of Trustees, and shall be for the unexpired term
thereof.
   D.   Removal From Office: Any member of a board or commission may for good
cause be removed by majority vote of the Mayor and Board of Trustees. (1976
Code §2-108)
   E.   Limitations On Membership: No person shall serve as a member of more
than one board or commission. (1976 Code §2-105)
2-1-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
Any individual appointed to a board or commission shall be and remain a
qualified elector of the Village. (Ord. 2002-06, 3-14-2002)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: In May of each year, the members of each advisory board or
commission shall select a Vice Chairman and Secretary to serve as officers of
the board or commission for a one year term to expire on April 30 next
following their selection as such officers.
   B.   Quorum: A majority of the authorized membership of the board or
commission shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of official business. A
duly constituted quorum shall be required to make recommendations to the Mayor
and Board of Trustees. (1976 Code §2-107)
   C.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular And Special Meetings; Open To The Public: Boards and
commissions shall have regular meetings at such times as the board or
commission may designate and may have special meetings called in such manner
and upon such reasonable notice as is required by law. All meetings of the
board or commission shall be open to the public, in accordance with law. (1976
Code §2-110)
      2.   Meeting Rooms: Meeting rooms of the Village shall be made available
to the board or commission for its meetings subject to the general direction of
the Village Administrator. (1976 Code §2-110)
      3.   Nonattendance At Meetings: A majority of the members present and
voting at any regular meeting of a board or commission may excuse a member from
attendance at a regular meeting, for reasons of health, business, or other good
cause; provided, that such excused absence shall be entered into the minutes of
such meeting. Absence from three (3) consecutive regular meetings without
excuse shall automatically vacate the office of any members. (1976 Code §2-106)
      4.   Attendance by members of boards and commissions at open meetings
other than by physical presence: (a) If a quorum of the members of a public
body is physically present as required by Section 2.01 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/1, et seq.), a majority of the public body may allow a
member of that body to attend the meeting by other means if the member is
prevented from physically attending because of: (i) personal illness or
disability, (ii) employment purposes or the business of the public body, or
(iii) a family or other emergency. "Other means" is by video or audio
conference; (b) If a member wishes to attend a meeting by other means, the
member must notify the recording secretary or clerk of the public body before
the meeting unless advance notice is impractical; (c) A majority of the public
body may allow a member to attend a meeting by other means only in accordance
with, and to the extent allowed by, the Illinois Open Meetings Act adopted by
the corporate authorities. The rules must conform to the requirements and
restrictions of this Section, may further limit the extent to which attendance
by other means is allowed, and may provide for the giving of additional notice
to the public or further facilitate public access to meetings.
   D.   Rules Of Order And Procedure: Subject to the provisions of this title,
boards and commissions may adopt such rules of order and procedure for the
conduct of its business as it deems necessary and appropriate.
   E.   Records: Boards and commissions shall keep written records of all their
meetings and proceedings, which records shall be open for public inspection
during regular business hours at the Village offices. Minutes of meetings shall
be filed with the Village Clerk as public records. (1976 Code §2-110; amd. 1991
Code; Ord. 94-05, 2-10-1994; Ord. 2020-16, 3-20-2020)
2-1-4: ASSISTANCE FROM VILLAGE OFFICERS:
The Village Administrator, legal counsel and other officers, departments and
agencies of the Village shall assist and cooperate with boards and commissions
and shall upon request, furnish information and advice respecting such matters
as the board or commission may reasonably require in order to fulfill its
purpose as set forth in this title, and to assist the board or commission in
meeting its annual objectives, as approved from time to time by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees. (1976 Code §2-110; amd. 1991 Code)
2-1-5: COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES:
   A.   Compensation: Members of boards and commissions shall serve without
compensation. (1976 Code §2-109)
   B.   Expenses: Upon approval by the Village Administrator, expenses for the
operation and conduct of the affairs of a board or commission shall be paid
from such funds as may be provided for such purpose in the annual budget
ordinance of the Village. The board or commission shall not incur expenses in
excess of the amount of such funds. (1976 Code §2-109; amd. Ord. 2011-06, 3-24-
2011)
2-1-6: SPEAKING AT MEETINGS:
In accordance with the Open Meetings Act 1 , the following procedures are
established for when a member of the public wishes to speak at an open meeting
of a commission or ad hoc committee of the Village. Members of the public have
no right to attend or speak at closed meetings. These procedures apply to all
open meetings of the commissions or ad hoc committees of the Village, including
regular, rescheduled or special meetings and study/workshop sessions.
   A.   Any individual seeking to address a public official at an open meeting
of a commission or committee shall comply with the following:
      1.   All speakers shall provide their name before providing other
comments. If the Village Clerk provides a sign-in sheet, each person wishing to
speak shall sign in before commenting. Speakers are requested to, but are not
required to, provide his or her address.
      2.   All speakers shall address their comments to the commission or
committee Chairperson.
      3.   Comments shall be limited to three (3) minutes per person per topic.
If the speaker requires an interpreter, either because of his/her limited
English proficiency or because of a disability, he/she shall be allowed no less
than six (6) minutes.
      4.   Comments shall be made in a civil manner, and comments that are
personally condescending, abusive or slanderous will not be permitted. Behavior
that is disruptive, unruly or threatening will not be permitted.
      5.   The public comment section of the meeting allows comments on any
matter on the agenda; provided, however, that the commission or committee shall
not take action on a matter raised in the public comment portion of the meeting
unless that matter is otherwise on the agenda.
      6.   The commission or committee Chairperson has the authority to
regulate the conduct of speakers and to waive subsection A3 of this section if,
in his or her sole discretion, a waiver is appropriate. The commission or
committee Chairperson also has the authority to preserve order at all meetings
and to cause the removal of any person who fails to comply with these rules of
procedure from the meeting. (Ord. 2018-43, 11-1-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1, et seq.
2-1-7: RECORDING AT MEETINGS:
In accordance with the Open Meetings Act 1 , the following procedures are
established for when a member of the public wishes to record an open meeting of
a commission or ad hoc committee of the Village. Members of the public have no
right to attend or record at closed meetings. These procedures apply to all
open meetings of the commissions or ad hoc committees of the Village, including
regular, rescheduled or special meetings and study/workshop sessions.
   A.   Any individual seeking to record an open meeting of a commission or
committee shall comply with the following:
      1.   No flashbulbs, floodlights or similar lighting may be used during
meetings of the commission or committee, without the prior approval of the
commission or committee. No person recording a meeting may disrupt a meeting or
interfere with the orderly communication among or the unobstructed vision of
the participants in the meeting, or of the general public in attendance.
      2.   Photographic and television equipment may be restricted by the
commission or committee Chairperson to designated areas of the room in which a
meeting is being conducted, but such area must have a clear view of the
proceedings.
      3.   No person shall take photographs or make other visual recordings of
any meeting until he or she has informed the commission or committee
Chairperson of such intent. (Ord. 2018-43, 11-1-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1, et seq.
CHAPTER 2
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Created; Membership
2-2-2: Terms Of Office; Secretary
2-2-3: Powers And Duties
2-2-4: Reports On Improvements
2-2-1: COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation of a
comprehensive village plan for the guidance, direction and control of the
growth and development or redevelopment of the village and contiguous territory
not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits and not
included in any other municipality, and in order that: a) zoning appeals from
the zoning officer, b) applications for variation from title 9 of this code,
and c) other matters relating to title 9 of this code, or applicable Illinois
statutes, may be properly heard and addressed by the village, a plan commission
is hereby created under the authority of an act of the general assembly of the
state of Illinois entitled "Illinois municipal code", as amended, and the
authority of the village as an act of its home rule powers to further the goals
of protecting and promoting the public health, safety, and welfare.
The plan commission (hereinafter referred to as "the commission") shall consist
of seven (7) members. (Ord. 2005-49, 9-1-2005)
2-2-2: TERMS OF OFFICE; SECRETARY:
   A.   The terms of office shall be as set forth in subsection
2-1-1B of this title.
   B.   The plan commission shall select a secretary as set forth in subsection
2-1-3A of this title. The secretary of the plan commission shall have the
following duties:
      1.   Record the minutes of the plan commission's proceedings and actions
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact.
      2.   Cause to be filed with the village clerk the originals of all
documents and other evidentiary matters received by the plan commission and
shall further, pursuant to the direction of the plan commission, maintain
copies of all such information.
      3.   Furnish members of the public with such forms for appeals and
applications for variations as are approved or reviewed by the plan commission.
      4.   Receive on behalf of the plan commission all such forms, when
completed and executed by the appellant or applicant, or his agent or attorney.
      5.   Perform such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by
the plan commission. (Ord. 2005-49, 9-1-2005)
2-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Enumerated: The plan commission shall be empowered to:
      1.   Review and make recommendations for neighborhood or area renewal,
conservation, redevelopment, urban aesthetics and civic design. (1976 Code §2-
156)
      2.   Call upon any official of the municipality and other governmental
agencies for aid and advice upon matters properly within the scope of interest
of the commission and give aid to the officials of the municipality and other
governmental agencies charged with the direction of projects for improvements
included in the official map, to further the making of such improvements and
generally promote the realization of the comprehensive plan. (1976 Code §2-156;
amd. 1991 Code)
      3.   Consult with municipal or regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area. (1976 Code §2-156)
      4.   Exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by state
statutes and this title as may, from time to time, be conferred on the
commission by the board of trustees. (1976 Code §2-156; amd. Ord. 2005-49, 9-1-
2005)
      5.   To hear and decide appeals, in which it is alleged there is an error
in any order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination
(hereinafter referred to collectively as "decision") made by the zoning
officer. (Ord. 2005-49, 9-1-2005)
      6.   To hear and make recommendation on all applications for variations
from the regulations and restrictions imposed by titles 8 and 9 of this code.
(Ord. 2007-16, 4-5-2007)
   B.   Prepare And Recommend: The commission shall prepare and recommend for
consideration and adoption by the board of trustees the following:
      1.   A statement of goals and objectives to help guide the growth and
development of the village and its environs. (1976 Code §2-155)
      2.   A comprehensive plan for the present and future development and
redevelopment of the municipality and contiguous territory not more than one
and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of Woodridge and not
included in any other municipality. Such plan may be adopted in whole or in
separate geographical or functional parts, each of which when adopted shall be
the comprehensive plan or part thereof of Woodridge. All parts of such plan
shall be advisory unless implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the village
board of trustees. All requirements for public hearings, filing of notice of
adoption with the county recorder of deeds and filing of the plan and
ordinances with the village clerk shall be complied with as provided by law. To
provide for the health, safety, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants of
Woodridge and contiguous territory, such plan or plans shall establish
reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for resubdivisions of
unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in respect to public
improvements as set forth herein. Said plans shall establish reasonable
requirements governing the location, width, course and surfacing of public
streets and highways, alleys, public ways for public service facilities, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks, playgrounds, school grounds, size of
lots to be used for residential purposes, storm water drainage, water supply
and distribution, floodwater runoff channels and basins, sanitary sewers and
sewage collection and treatment. The requirements herein specified shall become
regulatory only when adopted by ordinance. (1976 Code §2-155; amd. 1991 Code)
      3.   Such amendments to the plan as may be deemed necessary. (1976 Code
§2-155)
      4.   Such plans or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance
of the comprehensive plan. (1976 Code §2-155; amd. 1991 Code)
      5.   An official map of the municipality and such later revisions in said
map as may be deemed necessary by the board of trustees or by the commission.
(1976 Code §2-155)
   C.   Organization:
      1.   Meetings: All regular meetings of the plan commission shall be held
on the first and third Mondays of each month, beginning at seven o’clock (7:00)
P.M.
      2.   Rules Of Procedure: Regarding hearings required by title 9 of this
code, the plan commission shall adopt and publish its own rules of procedure
not in conflict with title 9 of this code, or with the Illinois statutes. The
plan commission may select or appoint such officers or committees as it deems
necessary. A copy of these rules of procedure shall at all times be on file in
the office of the village clerk. The minutes of the plan commission shall be
available for public examination in the office of the village clerk.
      3.   Certified Court Reporter Required: For all hearings required by
title 9 of this code, a certified court reporter shall be present at all
hearings or inquiries conducted by the plan commission for the purpose of
taking and transcribing all testimony adduced at such hearing or inquiry.
      4.   Quorum: A majority of the authorized membership of the plan
commission shall constitute a quorum. No meeting (or hearing) shall be
conducted by the plan commission without a quorum being present.
   D.   Decisions:
      1.   The plan commission shall conduct a public hearing on all matters
presented to it within ninety (90) days of the date of its receipt of a
complete application or appeal. The plan commission may reverse or affirm, in
whole or in part, or may modify or amend any order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from to the extent and in the manner the plan commission
decides to be fitting and proper under the circumstances, subject to the
provisions contained in title 9 of this code, or in the applicable Illinois
statutes. Any absent member of the plan commission who certifies that he has
read the transcript of the proceedings before the plan commission may vote upon
any question before the plan commission.
      2.   The concurring vote of four (4) members of the plan commission shall
be necessary:
         a.   To reverse, modify or amend any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the zoning officer.
         b.   To recommend to the board of trustees any variation from the
terms of title 9 of this code.
         c.   To make any decision or recommendation on any matter upon which
the plan commission is required to pass under title 9 of this code.
      3.   All decisions of the plan commission on appeal from a decision of
the zoning officer shall be final administrative determinations and shall be
subject to review by a court of law in the manner provided for in all
applicable Illinois statutes. (Ord. 2005-49, 9-1-2005; amd. Ord. 2020-37, 12-3-
2020)
2-2-4: REPORTS ON IMPROVEMENTS:
The village clerk shall furnish the plan commission, for its consideration, a
copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to the public improvements of
any nature. The plan commission may report in relation thereto if it deems a
report necessary or advisable for the consideration of the village board of
trustees. (1976 Code §2-157)
CHAPTER 3
RESERVED
(Ord. 2005-49, 9-1-2005)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Adoption of State Statute; Exceptions; Conflict
2-4-2: Board Created
2-4-3: Qualifications; Oath; Removal from Office
2-4-4: Membership; Term of Office; Chairperson
2-4-5: Powers; Duties; Responsibilities
2-4-6: Rules and Regulations of the Board of Police Commissioners
2-4-7: Chief of Police; Deputy Chief of Police; Commander
2-4-1: ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTE; EXCEPTIONS; CONFLICT:
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes, 5/10-2.1, as amended from time to time, entitled
"Board of Fire and Police Commissioners" ("State Statute"), be and the same is
hereby adopted by reference; provided that, except as noted, the following
sections of said State statute are expressly not adopted:
   A.   Section 5/10-2.1-3
   B.   Section 5/10-2.1-5
   C.   Section 5/10-2.1-8
   D.   Section 5/10-2.1-9
   E.   Section 5/10-2.1-10
   F.   Section 5/10-2.1-11
   G.   Section 5/10-2.1-12
   H.   Section 5/10-2.1-14 - except that the third paragraph of Section 5/10-
2.1-14 regarding maximum ages for appointment is adopted by reference.
   I.   Section 5/10-2.1-15.
Further, to the extent that any provisions of this Chapter and/or the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to Section
2-4-6 of this Chapter may be in conflict with or inconsistent with the
provisions of the State statute adopted by this Section
2-4-1, the provisions of this Chapter and the rules and regulations adopted
pursuant to Section
2-4-6 of this Chapter shall control, said provisions of this Chapter and the
rules and regulations adopted pursuant to Section
2-4-6 of this Chapter being expressly enacted pursuant to the home rule
authority of the Village. (Ord. 92-52, 8-27-92)
2-4-2: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created a Board of Police Commissioners in and for the Village.
(Ord. 92-52, 8-27-92)
2-4-3: QUALIFICATIONS; OATH; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The members of the Board of Police Commissioners shall possess the
qualifications required of other officers of the Village as set forth in
Chapter 1 of this Title and shall be electors of the Village. They shall take
an oath or affirmation of office and shall be subject to removal from office as
such other officers. No person holding an office under the Village shall be a
member of the Board of Police Commissioners. No person shall be appointed a
member of the Board of Police Commissioners who has been convicted of a felony
under the laws of this State or comparable laws of any other State or the
United States. No person shall be appointed a member of the Board of Police
Commissioners who is related, either by blood or marriage up to the degree of
first cousin, to any elected officer of the Village. (Ord. 92-52, 8-27-92)
2-4-4: MEMBERSHIP; TERM OF OFFICE; CHAIRPERSON:
The Board of Police Commissioners shall consist of five (5) members, each of
whose term of office shall be three (3) years and until their respective
successors are appointed and have qualified; provided, however, that the terms
of three (3) of the members first appointed shall expire on April 30, 1994 and
the terms of the remaining two (2) members first appointed shall expire on
April 30, 1995.
The members of the Board of Police Commissioners shall be appointed by the
Mayor, subject to the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. On or about
May 1 of each year, the Mayor shall, subject to the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees, designate one of the members of the Board of Police
Commissioners as chairperson for a term ending the following April 30 and until
his or her successor has been appointed and has qualified. (Ord. 92-52, 8-27-
92)
2-4-5: POWERS; DUTIES; RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Board of Police Commissioners shall have such powers, duties and
responsibilities as are assigned by the Mayor and Board of Trustees, including,
but not limited to:
   A.   The Board of Police Commissioners shall conduct examinations for and
make all original and promotional appointments of officers of the Police
Department, except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, in accordance with
the rules and regulations provided for in Section
2-4-6 of this Chapter.
   B.   The Board of Police Commissioners shall have the authority over and be
responsible for the discipline of all officers of the Police Department, except
as otherwise provided in this Chapter, in accordance with the rules and
regulations provided for in Section
2-4-6 of this Chapter. (Ord. 92-52, 8-27-92)
2-4-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS:
The Mayor and Board of Trustees shall, by ordinance, make such rules and
regulations of the Board of Police Commissioners as may be necessary to
efficiently operate the Police Department and to provide for the appointment,
promotion and discipline of the officers of the Police Department.
The Board of Police Commissioners may from time to time recommend changes to
such rules and regulations. The Mayor and Board of Trustees may from time to
time make such changes to the rules and regulations, with or without the
recommendation of the Board of Police Commissioners, as deemed appropriate.
All rules and regulations of the Board of Police Commissioners adopted pursuant
to this Section, and any changes thereto, shall be printed for distribution,
without delay, and notice shall be given of where the printed rules and
regulations, or changes thereto, may be obtained and of the date, not less than
ten (10) days subsequent to the date of publication of said notice, when the
rules and regulations, or changes thereto, shall go into effect. The notice
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the Village of
Woodridge.
2-4-7: CHIEF OF POLICE; DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE; COMMANDER:
Notwithstanding any provision contained in this Chapter to the contrary, the
Board of Police Commissioners shall not have jurisdiction over the positions of
Chief of Police, Deputy Chief of Police or Commander.
The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Village Administrator, with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
Deputy Chiefs of Police and Commanders shall be appointed be the Chief of
Police, with the advice and consent of the Village Administrator.
If an officer of the Police Department is appointed as Chief of Police, Deputy
Chief of Police or Commander, prior to being eligible to retire on pension, he
shall be considered as on furlough from the last rank (under the jurisdiction
of the Board of Police Commissioners) he held immediately prior to his
appointment, if any.
If he resigns or is discharged prior to attaining eligibility to retire on
pension, he shall revert to and be established in such prior rank, and
thereafter be entitled to all of the benefits and emoluments of such prior rank
without regard as to whether a vacancy then exists in such rank. (Ord. 92-52,
8-27-92)
CHAPTER 5
POLICE PENSION BOARD
SECTION:
2-5-1: Board Established; Appointments And Elections
2-5-2: Terms Of Office
2-5-3: Powers And Duties
2-5-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENTS AND ELECTIONS:
There is hereby established a police pension board of trustees of the police
pension fund. (1976 Code §2-146)
The police pension board of trustees shall consist of five (5) members, two (2)
of whom shall be appointed by the village mayor, two (2) of whom shall be
elected from the regular police force and one beneficiary under the police
pension fund act as created by statute 1 . (1976 Code §2-147)
 
Notes
1 1. 40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
2-5-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The two (2) members of the board appointed by the mayor shall serve for a
period of two (2) years beginning May 1, 1986, and the successor to any of the
foregoing members of the board shall serve for a period of two (2) years each
or until such time as their successors are appointed and qualify. The third and
fourth members of the board shall be elected from the regular police force by
the active members thereof as provided by statute. The fifth member shall be
elected from the beneficiaries under the police pension fund act 1 . Of these
three (3) members, all shall serve for a period of two (2) years beginning on
May 1, 1986, and all shall be elected as provided for by statute. (1976 Code
§2-148)
 
Notes
1 2. 40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
2-5-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The police pension board shall exercise and have all of the powers and duties
delegated to it by statute. (1976 Code §2-149)
CHAPTER 6
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
SECTION:
2-6-1: Agency Establishment
2-6-2: Coordinator
2-6-3: Continuity of Government
2-6-4: Functions
2-6-5: Service as Mobile Support Team
2-6-6: Agreements with Other Political Subdivisions
2-6-7: Local Disaster Declaration
2-6-8: Emergency Action
2-6-9: Reimbursement by State
2-6-10: Purchases and Expenditures
2-6-11: Oath
2-6-12: Office
2-6-1: AGENCY ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   There is hereby created the Woodridge Emergency Management Services and
Disaster Agency (Woodridge EMA) to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate
injury or damage resulting from the explosion of atomic or other means from
without or by means of sabotage or by other disloyal actions within, or from
fire, flood, earthquake, telecommunications failure or other natural or
technological causes, in accordance with the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency Act 1  ("the Act").
   B.   This EMA shall consist of the Coordinator and such additional members
as may be selected by the Coordinator. (Ord. 94-52, 7-28-94)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
2-6-2: COORDINATOR:
   A.   The Coordinator of the Village EMA shall be the Chief of Police or his
designee. The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, training and operation of the EMA, subject to the
direction and control of the Mayor and the Board of Trustees as provided by the
Act.
   B.   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability,to serve
as the Coordinator, the Mayor of the Board of Trustees, or any person
designated by him, shall be and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is
made as provided in this Chapter. (Ord. 94-52, 7-28-94)
2-6-3: CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT:
   A.   The Principal Executive Officer of the Village is the Mayor. The PEO,
or his emergency interim successor, is the only individual who can officially
declare a disaster in the Village. He is the ultimate authority in the Village
during any declared disaster, but relies directly on information and advice
from the Coordinator and the Village Administrator.
   B.   In the event that the PEO is unavailable, the powers of the office
shall be exercised and duties shall be discharged by his designated emergency
interim successors in the order specified. The emergency interim successors
shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office to which
designated until as such time as a vacancy which may exist shall be filled in
accordance with statutes, or until the PEO, or a preceding emergency interim
successor, again becomes available to exercise the powers and discharge the
duties of his office.
   C.   Emergency interim successors in the following order of succession are
hereby designated for the PEO, the Mayor as follows:
   Village Board
      1.   Senior Trustee/Mayor Pro-Tem
      2.   Next most senior Trustee
      3.   Most senior Trustee available
   D.   All emergency interim successors shall exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of an office until a successor is appointed or elected and
qualified as may be provided by the Constitution, statutes, charters and
ordinances or until the lawful incumbent is able to resume the exercise of the
powers and discharge the duties of the office.
   E.   All vital records shall be maintained and protected by the Coordinator
for use in reestablishing governmental operations after the emergency is
declared over. (Ord. 94-52, 7-28-94)
2-6-4: FUNCTIONS:
The EMA shall coordinate emergency management functions within the territorial
limits of the Village as are prescribed in and by the State Emergency
Operations Plan, and programs, orders, rules and regulations as may be
promulgated by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency and, in addition, shall
conduct such functions outside of those territorial limits as may be required
under mutual aid agreements and compacts as provided in the Act. (Ord. 94-52,
7-28-94)
2-6-5: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
   A.   All or any members of the Woodridge EMA may be designated as members of
a Mobile Support Team created by the Director of the State EMA as provided by
law.
   B.   The leader of such Mobile Support Team shall be designated as provided
by the Act.
   C.   Personnel of a mobile support team while on duty pursuant to such a
call or while engaged in regularly scheduled training exercises, whether within
or without the State, shall either:
      1.   A. If they are paid employees of the Village, have the powers,
duties, rights, privileges and immunities, and receive the compensation
incidental to their employment.
      2.   B. If they are not employees of the Village or State, be entitled to
at least one dollar ($1.00) per year compensation from the State. (Ord. 94-52,
7-28-94)
2-6-6: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The Coordinator may, in collaboration with other public agencies within his
immediate vicinity, develop or cause to be developed mutual aid arrangements
with other political subdivisions within this State for reciprocal disaster
response and recovery assistance in case a disaster is too great to be dealt
with unassisted. The mutual aid shall not, however, be effective unless and
until approved by each of the political subdivisions. The arrangements shall be
consistent with the State Emergency Operations Plan and State emergency
management program, and in the event of a disaster, it shall be the duty of
each emergency services and disaster agency to render assistance in accordance
with the provisions of the mutual aid arrangements. (Ord. 94-52, 7-28-94)
2-6-7: LOCAL DISASTER DECLARATION:
   A.   A local disaster may be declared only by the PEO of the Village, or his
emergency interim successor. It shall not be continued or renewed for a period
in excess of seven (7) days except by or with the consent of the governing
board of the Village. Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing or
terminating a local disaster shall be given prompt and general publicity and
shall be filed promptly with the Village Clerk.
   B.   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster is to activate the
emergency operations plan of that Village and to authorize the furnishing of
aid and assistance thereunder. (Ord. 94-52, 7-28-94)
2-6-8: EMERGENCY ACTION:
A proclamation of a disaster by the Governor shall activate the State Emergency
Operations Plan, and the Village's Emergency Operations Plan and be authority
for the deployment and use of any forces that the Plan applies and for use or
distribution of any supplies, equipment and materials and facilities assembled,
stockpiled or arranged to be made available under the Act or any other
provision of law relating to disasters. (Ord. 94-52, 7-28-94)
2-6-9: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the State to the Village for expenses incident to members of
the EMA as prescribed by the State Director of EMA, compensation for services
and expenses of members of a Mobile Support Team while serving outside the
Village in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of EMA, as
provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the State incident to EMA
activities, as provided by law. (Ord. 94-52, 7-28-94)
2-6-10: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
In carrying out the provisions of the Act, the Village may enter into contracts
and incur obligations necessary to place it in a position effectively to combat
the disaster, to protect the health and safety of persons, to protect property
and to provide emergency assistance to victims of those disasters. If a
disaster occurs, the Village may exercise the powers vested under the Act in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster and, excepting mandatory
constitutional requirements, without regard to the procedures and formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of public work,
entering into contracts, the incurring of obligations, the employment of
temporary workers, the rental of equipment, the purchase of supplies and
materials and the appropriation, expenditure and disposition of public funds
and property. (Ord. 94-52, 7-28-94)
2-6-11: OATH:
Each person, whether compensated or noncompensated, who is appointed to serve
in any capacity in the Illinois Emergency Management Agency or the Village
Emergency Management Services and Disaster Agency, shall, before entering upon
his duties, take an oath, in writing, before the Coordinator or before other
persons authorized to administer oaths in this State, which oath shall be filed
with the Coordinator and which oath shall be substantially as follows:
   I,                  , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further affirm
that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during such time
as I am affiliated with the Woodridge EMA organization, I will not advocate nor
become a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force or
violence.
(Ord. 94-52, 7-28-94)
2-6-12: OFFICE:
The Mayor and the Board of Trustees are authorized to designate space in a
Village building, or elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Mayor and the
Board of Trustees for the Village EMA as its office. (Ord. 94-52, 7-28-94)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS 1
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purpose and Jurisdiction
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: License Required; Exceptions
3-1-4: Application for License or Permit
3-1-5: Investigations and Inspections
3-1-6: Issuance or Denial of License or Permit
3-1-7: Term of License
3-1-8: License to be Posted
3-1-9: Building and Premises
3-1-10: Location
3-1-11: Health and Safety Requirements
3-1-11-1: Nuisances Prohibited
3-1-11-2: Unsafe or Unhealthy Business
3-1-11-3: Refuse Removal
3-1-11-4: Working Conditions
3-1-12: Business Vehicles
3-1-13: Inter-Track Wagering Prohibited
3-1-14: Duties of Licensees or Permitees; Suspension; Revocation
3-1-15: Appeals
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 5, Chapter 4 of this Code for disclosure of real estate and
  business dealings.
3-1-1: PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION:
Because each business located in the Village is a basic part of and affects the
physical and economic well-being of the Village, necessitating special services
from the Village in the form of fire, health and police inspections and
services, such businesses shall in all respects be in full compliance with the
provisions hereinafter contained in this Chapter. This Chapter is designed to
provide for the means whereby the Village may render the necessary inspections
and services to businesses in order to promote, protect and safeguard the
public safety, health and welfare of the citizens of Woodridge and to enable
the maintenance of an accurate record of businesses located and carrying on
commercial activities or commerce within the Village. (1976 Code §9-1)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases as used in this Chapter shall have the
following meanings, unless a different meaning is required by the context:
BUSINESS: Any vocation, occupation, profession, enterprise, establishment,
concern or any other type of activity, together with all devices, machines,
equipment, vehicles and appurtenances used therein, any of which are conducted
for profit; provided, however, that the term "business" shall not include those
vocations, occupations, professions, enterprises, establishments or concerns
licensed exclusively by the State of Illinois or department thereof or
permitted home occupations as set forth in Title 9 of this Code, the Zoning
Title.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity, except for such person or persons as may be organized
as an Illinois not-for-profit corporation or governmental bodies properly
organized under the laws of the State of Illinois.
TOTAL FLOOR AREA: The sum total of the horizontal areas of any and all floors,
or portions thereof, of any building, including any and all accessory
buildings, basements, attics and/or cellars, devoted to, reserved for or
retained for the use of any business, regardless of whether or not any such
area(s) is vacant or not in use. (1976 Code §9-2)
3-1-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
No person shall conduct, engage in, maintain, operate, carry on or manage any
business, either by himself or itself, or through any agent, employee or
partner without first having obtained a license therefor from the Village.
A license shall be required if any person, by himself or itself or through an
agent, employee or partner, is held forth as being engaged in any business, or
if he or it solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively, or if he or it
performs or attempts to perform any part of such business within the Village.
Where two (2) or more separate businesses, separately owned and/or operated,
share floor space in the same building or on the same parcel of property, and
any floor space is subdivided between the separate businesses, then each such
business shall obtain a license pursuant to the provisions contained in this
Chapter.
Notwithstanding any provision in this Section to the contrary, no license shall
be required of any person for the mere delivery within the Village of any
property purchased or acquired in good faith from such person at his regular
place of business outside the corporate limits of the Village. (1976 Code §9-3)
Any person charged with a violation of this Section may, in lieu of prosecution
for a violation hereof, make payment in accordance with Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (1976 Code §9-15; 1991 Code)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT:
Applications for all licenses or permits required by this Code shall be made in
writing to the Village Clerk, except as may otherwise be provided by this Code.
Each application shall contain such information as may be prescribed by the
Village Clerk including but not limited to:
   A.   The name of the applicant.
   B.   The permit or license desired.
   C.   The location to be used, if any.
   D.   The license period.
   E.   The fee to be paid.
   F.   The total floor area of the business, if any. (Proof acceptable to the
Village Clerk is required.)
   G.   The number of the certificate of registration required under the
retailer's occupation tax act 1 , service occupation tax act 2 , and/or use tax
act 3 , if applicable. Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications
therefor, shall be prepared and kept on file by the village clerk. Each license
or permit issued shall bear the signature of the village mayor and the village
clerk, except as may otherwise be provided by this code. (1976 Code §9-4)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2 2. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
3 3. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
3-1-5: INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS 1 :
   A.   Investigation Of Applicant:
      1.   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where an
investigation or inspection is required by ordinance before the issuance of
such permit or license, or where an inspection or investigation shall be deemed
reasonably necessary or appropriate, the village clerk, within forty eight (48)
hours of such receipt, shall refer the application to the appropriate official
(s) for the making of such investigation or inspection.
      2.   The official(s) to whom the application has been referred shall make
a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving
such application or a copy thereof.
      3.   If it shall appear to the village clerk that the matters and
circumstances relating to an application require further information before a
proper determination can be made, such application shall be returned to the
applicant for the inclusion of such additional information as may be specified
by the village clerk. (1976 Code §9-5)
   B.   Inspection Officials: The building commissioner, in consultation with
the county health department, shall make or cause to be made inspections
regarding such permits and licenses as related to the care and handling of
food, the prevention of nuisances and the spread of disease, and the protection
of the health of the public. The building commissioner shall make or cause to
be made any inspections which relate to compliance with the building code,
zoning ordinances and other related regulations. All other investigations,
except where otherwise provided, shall be made by the chief of police or by
some other officer designated by the village clerk 2 . (1976 Code §9-5; amd.
1991 Code; Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-2010)
   C.   Inspections; Analyses:
      1.   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by ordinance or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the
provisions of any ordinance or regulation of the village or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in
charge of the premises to admit thereto, for the purpose of making the
inspection, any officer or employee of the village who is duly authorized to
make such inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is
requested.
      2.   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or
regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any duly authorized
officer or employee of the village requesting the same sufficient samples of
such material or commodity.
      3.   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the village
mayor may revoke the license of any owner or operator of a licensed business in
the village who refuses to permit any duly authorized officer or employee to
make such inspection or to take an adequate sample of said commodity, or who
interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties; provided, however, that no license shall be subject to revocation for
such cause unless such officer or employee has been refused permission to enter
upon the premises in the name of the village after first having presented a
warrant authorizing such entry. (1976 Code §8-90)
      4.   In order to facilitate proper inspection in keeping with the
provisions of this subsection, any official, sanitarian, inspector or other
employee or person designated to make such inspections under the supervision of
the boards of health of the counties of DuPage and/or Will shall be considered
to be an officer or official of the village of Woodridge for such purpose and
for any purpose relative to the provisions of this chapter but for no other
purpose unless so designated by ordinances of the village. (1976 Code §8-90;
amd. 1991 Code)
 
Notes
1 4. See also subsection
  3-1-11-4C of this chapter.
2 1. See also subsection C4 of this section.
3-1-6: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
If, after due consideration of the information contained within the application
and the related investigative report, the village clerk determines that the
applicant does not meet the standards set forth in this chapter, she shall deny
such permit or license. Thereupon, the village clerk shall promptly notify the
applicant that no license or permit will be issued, indicating the reasons
therefor.
If, after due consideration of the information contained within the application
and the related investigative report, the village clerk determines that the
applicant meets the standards set forth in this chapter, she shall grant such
permit or license and notify the applicant thereof. (1976 Code §9-5)
3-1-7: TERM OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall be operative and the license year for the village
shall commence on May 1 of each year and shall terminate on April 30 of the
following year, where no provision to the contrary is made. (1976 Code §9-7)
3-1-8: LICENSE TO BE POSTED:
It shall be the duty of every person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used
for such business at all times so that it is plainly visible to someone
standing outside the main entrance to such business. (1976 Code §9-13; amd.
1991 Code)
3-1-9: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit shall
be issued for any purpose or activity, if the premises and building to be used
for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the village and state of Illinois. (1976 Code §9-8)
3-1-10: LOCATION:
   A.   No license for the operation of a business or establishment in the
village shall be construed to permit the operation of a licensed business or
establishment in more than one location in the village; a separate license
shall be required for each location of a licensed establishment. For the
purposes of this chapter, the existence of a single location shall be evidenced
by the fact that all buildings containing the principal or accessory uses shall
be connected or shall be located on the same lot or parcel, shall be operated
and managed by the same person or owner and shall be an establishment with the
same classification. (1976 Code §9-10)
   B.   The location of any licensed business or occupation or the location of
any permitted act may be changed provided that ten (10) days' notice thereof is
given to the village clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary;
provided, however, that all applicable ordinances and regulations of the
village shall be complied with. (1976 Code §9-9)
3-1-11: HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
3-1-11-1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No business or establishment, whether or not licensed, shall be so conducted or
operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact; and no building, vehicle,
structure, yard, lot, premises, or part thereof, shall be used, kept,
maintained or operated in connection with any business or establishment so as
to occasion any nuisance, or so as to be dangerous to life or detrimental to
health. (1976 Code §8-86)
3-1-11-2: UNSAFE OR UNHEALTHY BUSINESS 1 :
   A.   No building or structure, utilized, constructed or maintained in
connection with any business or occupation shall evidence an unsanitary, unsafe
or dangerous condition.
   B.   No substance, matter or thing of any kind whatever which shall be
dangerous or detrimental to health shall be allowed to exist in connection with
any business or occupation or be used in any work or labor performed in the
village. (1976 Code §8-87)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  4-1-1G of this code.
3-1-11-3: REFUSE REMOVAL 1 :
It shall be the duty of the occupant of every building, structure or premises
used or maintained in connection with any business or occupation to cause to be
removed at his own cost and expense at least once each week all refuse produced
therein. (1976 Code §8-88)
 
Notes
1 2. See also title 4, chapter 2 of this code.
3-1-11-4: WORKING CONDITIONS:
   A.   General Health And Sanitary Conditions:
      1.   No owner, lessee, manager or superintendent of any store, factory,
workshop or other place where persons are employed shall cause or permit such
place, or any room or part thereof, to be overcrowded or inadequate or faulty
in respect to light, ventilation, heat or cleanliness.
      2.   All such places of employment shall be kept in a clean condition,
free from the effluvia of a sewer, drain, privy, stable or other nuisance; also
as far as practicable, such premises shall be free from all gases, vapors, dust
or other impurities generated by manufacturing processes or otherwise which are
injurious to health. Sufficient washroom facilities for male and female
employees shall be provided and such facilities shall be properly ventilated.
(1976 Code §8-89)
   B.   Heating Requirements:
      1.   It shall be the duty of every person owning or controlling the
heating plant which furnishes heat to any factory or workshop, to maintain a
temperature within such factory or workshop of not less than sixty eight
degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) without such undue restriction of ventilation as to
interfere with proper sanitary conditions therein at such times as employees
are required to be on the premises from October 1 of each year to June 1 of the
succeeding year, Sundays and holidays excepted; provided, however, that this
requirement shall not apply to any factory or workshop where the business
conducted therein is of such a nature that a higher or lower temperature than
sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) is necessary or expedient for the work or
manufacturing process of such business. (1976 Code §8-89; amd. 1991 Code)
      2.   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling the heating
plant which furnishes heat to any office, store or other place of employment to
maintain a temperature therein of not less than sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit
(68°F) without such undue restriction of ventilation as to interfere with
proper sanitary conditions therein, at such times as employees are required to
be on the premises from October 1 of each year to June 1 of the succeeding
year, Sundays and legal holidays excepted. (1976 Code §8-89)
   C.   Inspections 1 : The director of community development shall visit or
cause to be visited all such places of employment in the village as often as
they shall deem necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, and to have such arrangements made as may be deemed necessary for the
health and safety of the employees. (1976 Code §8-89; amd. 1991 Code; Ord.
2010-29, 5-20-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  3-1-5 of this chapter.
3-1-12: BUSINESS VEHICLES:
Whenever the number of vehicles used is the basis, in whole or in part, for a
license fee, the village clerk shall furnish the licensee with a tag or sticker
for each vehicle covered by the license, and such tag or sticker shall be
posted or affixed in a conspicuous place on each such vehicle. (1976 Code §9-
14)
3-1-13: INTERTRACK WAGERING PROHIBITED:
No person shall establish, operate, maintain or manage any intertrack wagering
location or off track betting parlor within the village, and no license
therefor shall be issued by the village. (Ord. 89-13, 3-9-1989)
3-1-14: DUTIES OF LICENSEES OR PERMITEES; SUSPENSION; REVOCATION:
   A.   Compliance required: All licensees and permitees shall comply with all
applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of the Village, and no
business, occupation, or activity, whether licensed or not, shall be so
conducted or operated as to amount to a nuisance. The Village Administrator or
his designee shall cause periodic inspections to be made of licensees and
permitees to maintain proper compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules, and regulations, and to protect the general health, safety, and welfare
of the public. Whenever inspections of the premises used for the operation of a
licensed business, occupation or activity are reasonably necessary to secure
compliance with any ordinance or to detect violations thereof, or to protect
the general welfare of the public, it shall be the duty of the licensee,
permitee, or person in charge of the subject premises to admit and assist any
officer or employee of the Village who is authorized or directed to investigate
the premises.
   B.   Suspension of Business Operation: When the conduct or operation of any
business or establishment, whether or not licensed, shall constitute a nuisance
in fact and a clear and present danger to the public health, safety or general
welfare, the Village Administrator shall be authorized to summarily order the
cessation of business, the closing of the premises and the suspension of any
license or permit for a period not to exceed ten (10) days.
   Within eight (8) days after he/she has so acted, the Village Administrator
shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether the license or
permit should be revoked or suspended.
   C.   License suspension: The Village Administrator or his designee may
suspend or revoke any license or permit issued under this chapter if:
      1.   The licensee fails to meet or maintain the qualifications required
of an applicant for the license;
      2.   The licensee violates any provision of this chapter or any other
ordinance of the Village applicable to the premises of the licensee or his
business, profession or activity;
      3.   The licensee obtained the license by fraud, misrepresentation or
omission of a material fact;
      4.   The licensee's activities create a danger to the public health,
safety or welfare;
      5.   The licensee violates a condition of the license;
      6.   The licensee violates a statute, regulation or other law of the
state, the United States of America or other governmental body or agency with
jurisdiction over the licensee or his premises, business, profession or
activity;
      7.   The licensee fails to obtain or maintain a license, permit or
certification required by the village or other governmental body or agency
having jurisdiction over the licensee or his premises, business, profession or
activity;
      8.   One or more of the licensee's activities constitute a public
nuisance;
      9.   The licensee employs a person (a "revoked licensee") who has had his
license, or the license of a corporation, partnership, or similar entity in
which he has an ownership interest, suspended, revoked or not renewed under
this article; or
      10.   The licensee, in the case where the licensee is a corporation,
partnership or similar entity, becomes owned, in whole or in part, by a revoked
licensee or an owner or principal of a revoked licensee.
   D.   License suspension notice; hearing on revocation:
      1.   If the Village administrator or his designee finds one of the
grounds set forth in subsection (C) of this section exists, he shall give
written notice to the licensee or person in control of the business, profession
or activity within the Village, by personal service or certified mail, that the
license is suspended, pending a hearing before the board of trustees for the
purpose of determining whether the license should be revoked. The notice shall
state the time and place at which the hearing is to be held, which shall be at
a regular or special board of trustees meeting within thirty (30) days from the
date of service of the notice. The notice shall contain a brief statement of
the reasons for the suspension and proposed revocation.
      2.   At the license revocation hearing, the licensee may appear and
submit evidence in defense or mitigation of the violation specified in the
notice. At such hearing, all parties shall have the right to be represented by
counsel, to present testimony and evidence, and to cross-examine witnesses. The
board of trustees shall determine and rule upon all issues of evidence and
procedure at the hearing, and shall, by a majority vote of members present,
render a written decision based upon findings of fact and applicable law. The
written decision shall be served upon all parties.
   E.   Standards for revocation or lesser sanctions:
      1.   If persuaded that the licensee has violated or failed to comply with
one or more of the standards or requirements set forth in subsection b. of this
section, the board of trustees shall determine whether to revoke the license or
to establish some lesser sanction and cure, considering the nature,
circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation as reflected by one (1) or
more of the following factors:
         a.   Whether the misconduct was egregious;
         b.   Whether substantial harm resulted;
         c.   Whether the violation was intentional;
         d.   Whether there is a history of prior violations of the same or
other requirements;
         e.   Whether the violation was voluntarily disclosed or admitted;
         f.   Whether the violation was expeditiously cured;
         g.   Whether the licensee has paid all fines assessed; and
         h.   Whether it would be in the public interest to impose some penalty
or sanction less than revocation.
      2.   Lesser sanctions which may be imposed by the Board of Trustees shall
include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Suspension of the license for a period of time;
         b.   Imposition of a fine in addition to any other fine for which the
licensee may be liable under other sections of this chapter; and
         c.   Imposition of conditions and/or limitations upon the license.
      3.   If a fine is imposed, the Board of Trustees may include an
assessment of the reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the village in
enforcing this section and conducting the license revocation hearing.
      4.   No person who has had a license suspended, revoked or not renewed
under this article shall be granted any other license under this chapter during
the period of suspension, revocation or nonrenewal either in the licensee's own
name, as a principal in another business or entity, or in the name of a
corporation, limited liability company or other entity which has ownership or
another interest in common with the revoked licensee. For the purposes of this
section, the term "another interest in common with the revoked licensee" shall
include situations where the revoked licensee or one of its owners or
principals is employed by the prospective licensee. No person whose license is
revoked is entitled to a refund of any part of the license fee paid for the
revoked or suspended license.
   F.   Revocation not exclusive remedy: Nothing in this section shall be
deemed to prevent the Village Administrator or his designee or applicable
Village Inspector from imposing other penalties authorized by this chapter or
other village ordinance, including the imposition of a fine or filing a
complaint in the circuit court of the county for a violation of this chapter or
other village ordinance. (1976 Code § 9-11; amd. Ord. 2023-23, 7-20-2023)
3-1-15: APPEALS:
Any final decision of the Board of Trustees pursuant to this section shall
constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review and shall be
subject to review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law (735 ILCS 5/3-
101, et seq.). (1976 Code § 9-12; amd. Ord. 2023-23, 7-20-2023)
ARTICLE A. BUSINESS LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES
SECTION:
3-1A-1: Payment Of License Fees; Proration
3-1A-2: Delinquent Payments
3-1A-3: Fee Schedule
3-1A-1: PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES; PRORATION:
In the absence of provisions to the contrary, all fees and charges for licenses
or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor is made to
the village clerk in the amounts prescribed in the schedule contained in this
article. When an applicant has not engaged in the business or activity until
after the expiration of part of the current license year, the license fee shall
be prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof
during which the business or activity has been or will be conducted. Except as
otherwise provided, all license and permit fees shall become a part of the
corporate fund to reimburse said fund for the costs incurred in investigations
and processing applications for the permits and licenses required herein, and
for the costs of regulating the subject businesses or establishments. In no
event shall any rebate or refund be made of any license or permit fee, or part
thereof, by reason of death or departure of the licensee or permittee; nor
shall any rebate or refund be made by reason of nonuse of the license or
discontinuance of the operation or conduct of the licensed establishment,
business or activity. (1976 Code §9-6)
3-1A-2: DELINQUENT PAYMENTS:
   A.   Development Review Fees And Charges And Building Permit Fees: All
development review fees and charges and building permit fees, as set forth in
subsections 3-1A-3A and B of this article, shall be due and payable on or
before the sixtieth day after the date when the statement of such amounts due
is delivered or deposited in the U.S. mail by the village. In the event that
such amounts due are not received by the village within such sixty (60) day
period, such amounts due shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be
delinquent and thereafter a delinquency charge of one percent (1%) per month,
or portion thereof, with a minimum delinquency charge of five dollars ($5.00)
per month, shall be added to the amount due until such amount due, including
all delinquency charges, is received by the village. This charge shall be in
addition to any other charges or penalties imposed by law for late payment or
nonpayment of funds due the village.
   B.   Business License Fees: All business license fees, as set forth in
subsection 3-1A-3C of this article, shall be due and payable on or before the
thirtieth day after the date when the statement of such amounts due is
delivered or deposited in the U.S. mail by the village. In the event that such
amounts due are not received by the village within such thirty (30) day period,
such amounts due shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent and
thereafter a delinquency fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be added to the
amount due the village for said license fee. This charge shall be in addition
to any other charges or penalties imposed by law for late payment or nonpayment
of funds due the village. (Ord. 98-59, 11-12-1998; amd. Ord. 2004-07, 3-18-
2004)
3-1A-3: FEE SCHEDULE:
License fees under the terms of this title for the businesses, occupations,
activities and uses set forth shall be as follows:
   A.   Development Review, Reimbursement Of Fees:
      1.   Zoning and Comprehensive Plan: An owner of property, or agent
thereof, submitting any application or petition to the village seeking one or
more of the following elements of relief, from or by the village, shall pay to
the village as a part of such application or petition a fee for each such
element of relief, as follows:
Zoning text amendment  $500.00
Zoning map amendment   $600.00
Variation:              
 Administrative       $250.00
 Residential use      $100.00
 Nonresidential use   $500.00
 Map amendment        $500.00
 Text amendment       $500.00
 
      2.   Annexations, Subdivisions, Planned Unit Developments, Special Use
Permits, Site Development Areas, Site Plans, Appeal, And Appeal To Zoning
Officer Decision: An owner of property, or agent thereof, submitting any
application or petition to the village seeking one or more of the following
elements of relief, from or by the village, shall pay to the village as a part
of such application or petition a fee for each such element of relief, as
follows:
 
Special use permit request or amendment thereto  $650.00
Amendment with respect thereto                   $1,000.00
Appeal to zoning officer decision                $1,000.00
 
 Acreage Of Subject Realty
 <2 Acres 2 - 10 Acres 10 - 25 Acres >25 Acres
                                 Acreage Of Subject Realty
                                 <2 Acres  2 - 10 Acres 10 - 25 Acres >25 Acres
Annexation                       $500.00   $1,000.00    $1,500.00     $2,000.00
Special use permit for a PUD and $1,500.00 $1,900.00    $2,500.00     $3,500.00
associated preliminary plan/plat
Major change thereto             $600.00   $950.00      $1,250.00     $1,750.00
Minor change thereto             $600.00   $600.00      $600.00       $600.00
Final PUD plan/plat or major     $1,300.00 $1,500.00    $1,800.00     $2,000.00
change thereto
Minor change thereto             $600.00   $600.00      $600.00       $600.00
Site plan review or major change
thereto (Administrative and      $250.00   $500.00      $750.00       $1,000.00
Village Board)
Minor change thereto             $250.00   $250.00      $250.00       $250.00
Preliminary subdivision plat     $500.00   $1,150.00    $1,700.00     $2,200.00
Final subdivision plat           $850.00   $1,100.00    $1,700.00     $2,200.00
 
      3.   Additional Staff Review Fee: Three (3) staff reviews are included
with the total fee submitted with respect to any application/petition. An owner
of property, or agent thereof, submitting any application or petition with the
village which, either at the applicant's request or in the opinion of the
village staff, requires more than three (3) plan reviews prior to the
application/petition being reviewed by the plan commission, shall pay to the
village five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each plan review in excess of three
(3).
      4.   Reimbursement Of Fees: In addition to the fixed fee(s) provided for
in subsections A1, A2 and/or A3 of this section, each owner and petitioner/
applicant shall enter into a reimbursement of fees agreement with the village.
The reimbursement of fees agreement shall encompass all applications or
petitions pending with the village, including any additional matters not set
forth hereinabove. The reimbursement of fees agreement shall be in the
following form:
   VILLAGE OF WOODRIDGE
   REIMBURSEMENT OF FEES AGREEMENT
         Village of Woodridge Acct. #               
I.   OWNER:
    A. Owner of Property:     Date:                
    B. Owner's Address:    
    C. Owner's Phone Number:    
    D. If Owner is a Land Trust, the names and addresses of the beneficiaries
        of the Trust:
         
         
II.  PERSON MAKING REQUEST (Petitioner/Applicant):
    A. Name of Petitioner/Applicant:    
    B. Petitioner's/Applicant's Address:    
    C. Petitioner's/Applicant's Phone Number:    
III. LOCATION OF PROPERTY:
    A. General Location of Property:    
    B. Acreage of Parcel:    
    C. Permanent Index Number(s):    
    D. Legal Description (attach as Exhibit A)
 
IV.   REIMBURSEMENT OF FEES:
Should the Village, in its sole and exclusive discretion, determine that it is
necessary or desirable for the Village to obtain professional services,
including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers, planners, architects,
surveyors, court reporters, traffic, drainage or other consultants, including
full and/or part time site inspection services during the actual construction
of any required improvements, and/or to incur costs related to any required
notices or recordations, additional development and building permit
applications in connection with any Petition or Application filed by the
Petitioner/Applicant, a copy of which is attached hereto and incorporated
herein as Exhibit B, then the Petitioner/Applicant and Owner shall be jointly
and severally liable for the payment of such professional fees and costs, as
shall actually be incurred by the Village, plus an additional ten percent (10%)
to cover the Village's administrative expenses.
The Mayor and Board of Trustees and/or Village Administrator are hereby
authorized to assign the above described services to the Village staff or to
consultants, as they deem appropriate. When any services contemplated by this
Agreement are rendered by the Village staff, then in such case the Village
shall be reimbursed for its cost incurred in providing said services. Said
reimbursement shall be at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour, plus an
additional ten percent (10%) to cover the Village's administrative expenses.
At the time the Petitioner/Applicant requests action from the Village, he shall
deposit the following amounts with the Village as an initial deposit to
collateralize the obligation for payment of such fees and expenses:
 
Number of Review Items under 5 acres 5-15 acres 16-75 acres over 75 acres
One                    $1,000        $2,000     $3,000      $4,000
2 to 3                 $2,000        $4,000     $5,000      $7,000
>4                     $3,000        $5,000     $7,000      $10,000
 
The Village shall deduct the incurred expenditures and costs from the funds
deposited. If the remaining deposit balance falls below $500.00, the
Petitioner/Applicant, upon notice by the Village, shall be required to
replenish the deposit to its original amount. The Village shall send the
Petitioner/Applicant regular invoices for the fees and costs incurred. The
Petitioner/Applicant shall replenish the deposit amount within fifteen (15)
days of receipt of an invoice directing the replenishment of said deposit.
Failure to remit payment within fifteen (15) days will cause all reviews to
cease.
A Petitioner/Applicant who withdraws his Petition or Application may apply in
writing to the Village Clerk for a refund of his initial deposit. The Village
Administrator may, in his discretion, approve such refund less any actual fees
and costs, which the Village has already paid or incurred relative to the
Petition or Application.
Upon the failure of the Petitioner/Applicant or Owner to reimburse the Village
in accordance with this Agreement, no further action shall be undertaken on any
Petition or Application by the Mayor and Board of Trustees, or by any other
official or quasi-official individual or body thereunder, including the conduct
of any hearings or deliberations, the granting of any relief or approvals, and
the execution or recording of any documents, until all such outstanding fees
are paid in full and/or the initial deposit is restored to its full amount.
Further, the Village may deny any application for a grading, building or other
permit if such amounts have not been paid in full. Upon any failure to
reimburse the Village in accordance with this Section, the Village may in its
discretion, apply any or all of the initial deposit to the outstanding balance
due and/or elect to place a lien against any real property associated with the
Petitioner/Applicant's Petition or Application. In the event such amounts are
not paid in full within sixty (60) days after the date when the statement of
such amounts due is delivered or deposited in the U.S. mail by the Village,
such amounts due shall be deemed delinquent and thereafter a delinquency charge
of one percent (1%) per month, or portion thereof, with a minimum delinquency
charge of $5.00 per month, shall be added to the amount due until such amount
due, including all delinquency charges, is received by the Village. Said lien
shall be in an amount equal to the outstanding amount owed to the Village.
The remedies available to the Village as set forth hereinabove are non-
exclusive and nothing herein shall be deemed to limit or waive the Village's
right to seek relief of such fees against any or all responsible parties in a
court of competent jurisdiction.
Any remaining balance of any funds deposited pursuant to this Agreement shall
be refunded at such time as the Village accepts all required improvements
within the development, pursuant to any improvement agreement executed in
connection with the development of the real property associated with
Petitioner's/Applicant's Petition or Application. In the event that no
improvements are required, any such balance shall be refunded upon the later
occurring of the following events: completion of Village deliberation on the
petition or application, recordation of all necessary documents associated with
the petition or application, or issuance of a building permit upon the real
property in question.
BY SIGNING BELOW, THE PETITIONER/APPLICANT AND OWNER ACKNOWLEDGE THAT EACH OF
THEM HAS READ THE FOREGOING PARAGRAPHS AND EACH OF THEM FULLY UNDERSTANDS AND
AGREES TO COMPLY WITH THE TERMS SET FORTH HEREIN. FURTHER, BY SIGNING BELOW,
EACH SIGNATORY WARRANTS THAT HE/SHE/IT POSSESSES FULL AUTHORITY TO SO SIGN.
THE PETITIONER/APPLICANT AND OWNER AGREE THAT PETITIONER/APPLICANT AND OWNER
SHALL BE JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY LIABLE FOR PAYMENT OF FEES REFERRED TO IN
APPLICABLE SECTIONS OF THE ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF WOODRIDGE, AND AS SET
FORTH HEREIN.
                      Village of Woodridge
                   By:   
Petitioner/Applicant       Village Administrator
                      
Owner                 Attest
Date:              Date:   
 
      5.   Public Hearing Fee: In addition to the fixed fee(s) provided for in
subsections A1, A2 and/or A3 of this section, each owner of property, or agent
thereof, submitting any application or petition with the Village, which
requires a public hearing per State law shall pay to the Village fifty dollars
($50.00).
      6.   Fee in-Lieu for Tree Preservation: Per the Tree Preservation and
Requirements section of the Zoning Code Title,
9-8-3.B.6, a Fee in-lieu shall be established for certain situations when
required tree replacement cannot be met. The fee shall be paid to the village,
per tree, in the amount of four hundred dollars ($400.00) per tree at the time
the any building permit is issued for the property with an annual increase in
the fee tied to the Consumer Price Index.
   B.   Building Permit Fees:
      1.   Single, Duplex And Townhouse Residential Buildings:
         a. The fees for single, duplex and townhouse residential buildings
shall be as follows (duplex and townhouse charges are per unit):
 
Plan review fee                     $400.00
Building permit and inspection fee  0.40 per square foot
                                   (basement and garage included in square
                                     footage)
                                   Minimum charge $350.00
 
   The building permit and inspection fee includes the cost of the inspection
of driveway, sidewalk, final occupancy, furnace and central air conditioning.
Fees for accessory structures (i.e., decks, etc.), plumbing and electrical not
included. Expedited reviews, if approved by the director of community
development, shall be charged at 11/2 times the normal rates and minimum
charges.
         b.   The plan review fee is nonrefundable. If the permit is revoked or
canceled prior to commencement of construction, the building permit and
inspection fee shall be refunded. Otherwise, no other refunds will be made.
      2.   Multi-Family Residential Buildings, Nonresidential Buildings:
         a.   The plan review fees for multi-family residential buildings and
nonresidential buildings shall be computed as follows:
            (1)   Plan Review Fee 1  - New Construction And/Or Additions:
               Outside Agency
               The plan review for multi-family and nonresidential buildings,
including additions thereto, may be performed by a professional plan review
agency. All fees and charges related to the performance of this service shall
be borne by the permittee. An additional 20 percent of this fee shall be
charged for administrative costs and plan review performed by village
personnel.
               In House Plan Review Performed By Village Personnel
               (A)   Building Code Review - Volume/Cubic Feet (New Construction
And/Or Additions):
   Up to and including    60,000               $ 550.00
   60,001 to and including   80,000            650.00
   80,001 to and including   100,000           750.00
   100,001 to and including   150,000          850.00
   150,001 to and including   200,000          1,050.00
   Over 200,000 for each 10,000 or fraction there 9.00
   Mechanical review add 0.25 x building review fee
   Plumbing review add 0.25 x building review fee
   Electrical review add 0.25 x building review fee
Fire sprinkler systems - based on number of sprinklers:
Up to and including 200                       $400.00
201 to and including 300                      450.00
301 to and including 500                             620.00
Over 500                                             620.00 plus $0.50 each
Fire pump                                            200.00
Alternate fire suppression system:                    
Standpipe                                     250.00 per standpipe
Carbon dioxide                                       250.00 flat rate
Dry chemical (cooking operations)                    250.00 flat rate
 
                  (B)   Remodeling: Plan review for remodeling of multi- family
and nonresidential buildings will be performed at a cost of $100.00 an hour.
                  (C)   Expedited Reviews: Expedited reviews of new
construction, additions or remodeling of multi-family residential or
nonresidential buildings, if approved by the director of community development,
shall be charged at 11/2 times the normal rate.
            (2)   Building Permit And Inspection Fee:
               Multi-family buildings:
                  $0.35 per square foot of total floor area of multiple- family
residential buildings.
               Nonresidential buildings, new construction and additions:
                  $0.45 per square foot of total floor area, for buildings
10,000 square feet and smaller.
               For buildings larger than 10,000 square feet and up to and
including 100,000 square feet:
                  $0.45 per square foot of total floor area up to and including
10,000 square feet, plus $0.35 per square foot of total floor area in excess of
10,000 square feet.
               For buildings larger than 100,000 square feet:
                  $0.45 per square foot of floor area up to and including
10,000 square feet, plus $0.35 per square foot of total floor area in excess of
10,000 square feet up to and including 100,000 square feet, plus $0.25 per
square foot of total floor area in excess of 100,000 square feet.
            (3)   Stormwater Management Permit Fee: The fee for review of an
application to the village for a stormwater management permit, as required
under the "countywide stormwater and floodplain management ordinance", shall be
as follows:
 
Where stormwater submittal is required    $500.00  
Where no stormwater submittal is required 50.00    
 
   b. The plan review fee is nonrefundable. If the permit is revoked or
canceled prior to commencement of construction, the remaining portion, up to 50
percent, of the engineering review and inspection fee shall be refunded;
building permit and inspection fees shall also be refunded in their entirety.
Otherwise, no refunds shall be made.
      3.   Additions, Alterations, Repairs, Accessory Structures And
Reinspections: The fees for residential and nonresidential alterations, repairs
and accessory structures, reinspections and residential additions shall be as
follows:
 Accessory structures (decks, porches, gazebos, etc.)                $ 100.00
 Air conditioning, furnace install/replace (residential)             50.00
 Connection of sump pumps, downspouts and underdrains to storm sewer 75.00
  system
 Driveways (including overlays)                                      60.00
 Fences:                                                              
   Residential                                                      40.00
   Commercial, multi-family                                         100.00
 Fireplaces                                                          100.00
 Patios, private walks, miscellaneous flatwork                       50.00
 Reroofing:                                                           
   Residential                                                      40.00
   Commercial, multi-family                                         100.00 per
                                                                      building
 Sheds                                                               40.00
 Swimming pools:                                                      
   Aboveground                                                      100.00
                                                                      200.00
   Inground                                                         plus
                                                                      electrical
 Water heater                                                        50.00
 Remodeling, repairs, addition to main residential structure, detached garage,
  nonresidential alteration (not including plumbing and electrical):
          Valuation                                           Fee   
   $50.00 - $1,000.00                                               $ 85.00
   $1,001.00 - $2,000.00                                            95.00
   $2,001.00 - $5,000.00                                            105.00
   $5,001.00 - $8,000.00                                            115.00
   $8,001.00 - $10,000.00                                           125.00
                                                                      125.00
                                                                      plus
                                                                      $10.00 per
   Over $10,000.00                                                  $1,000.00
                                                                      valuation
                                                                      over
                                                                      $10,000.00
  Remodeling: Plan review for remodeling of single-family, duplex and townhouse
 buildings will be performed at a cost of $100.00 an hour. (Ord. 2008-22, 5-1-
  2008; amd. Ord. 2009-48, 10-15-2009)
4. Backflow Prevention Installation For Irrigation Systems:
   Residential                                                      $ 75.00
   Nonresidential                                                   75.00
5. Plumbing Inspection 1 :                                             
                                                                      100.00
                                                                      base fee,
   Residential (single-family, duplex, townhouse)                   plus
                                                                      $15.00 per
                                                                      fixture
                                                                      100.00
                                                                      base fee,
   Nonresidential, multi-family residential                         plus
                                                                      $15.00 per
                                                                      fixture
   Sewer replacement/alteration                                     75.00
6. Electrical Inspection 2 :                                           
   Base fee required for all electrical permits in addition to the  100.00
     applicable electrical fees listed below:
   Residential (single-family, duplex, townhouse):                   
                                                                      250.00
                                                                      plus
      New, up to and including 200 amp                           $20.00 per
                                                                      each
                                                                      additional
                                                                      100 amp
                                                                      100.00
      Addition/alteration                                        plus $5.00
                                                                      per
                                                                      circuit
                                                                      100.00
                                                                      plus
      Service upgrade up to and including 200 amp                $20.00 per
                                                                      each
                                                                      additional
                                                                      100 amp
   Nonresidential, multi-family residential - new:                   
                                                                      150.00
                                                                      plus
      Service, panels, switchgear (each) up to and including 200 $20.00 per
     amp                                                              each
                                                                      additional
                                                                      100 amp
      Circuits                                                   6.00 each
      Motors, HVAC units, condensers                             15.00 each
   Nonresidential and multi-family residential - additions:          
                                                                      150.00
                                                                      plus
      Service, panels, switchgear (each) up to and including 200 $20.00 per
     amp                                                              each
                                                                      additional
                                                                      100 amp
      Circuits                                                   6.00 each
      Motors, HVAC units, condensers                             15.00 each
                                                                      3.00 per
                                                                      outlet,
                                                                      plus $6.00
      Minor alterations                                          per
                                                                      circuit;
                                                                      $75.00
                                                                      minimum
   Low voltage, voice/data, commercial burglar alarms               100.00
7. Fire Alarm Systems:                                                 
                                                                      150.00
                                                                      each, plus
   Each panel                                                       $2.00 per
                                                                      device;
                                                                      $200.00
                                                                      minimum
8. Demolition/Wrecking:                                                
   Residential (single-family, duplex, townhouse):                   
      Accessory building                                         40.00
      Principal building                                         500.00
   Nonresidential, multi-family residential:                         
                                                                      150.00
                                                                      plus $7.00
      Interior demolition                                        per 1,000
                                                                      square
                                                                      feet
                                                                      500.00
                                                                      plus $7.00
      Principal building                                         per 1,000
                                                                      square
                                                                      feet
9. Grading/Fill Permits:                                               
   Residential - existing structures                                75.00
10. Parking Lot Alterations:                                           
   Sealcoating and restriping                                       150.00
                                                                      150.00
                                                                      plus $5.00
   Resurfacing or reconstruction                                    per 1,000
                                                                      square
                                                                      feet
11. Signs 1 : The fee to be charged for permits issued for the erection,
construction or alteration of any sign, other advertising structure, marquee,
canopy or awning, as defined in this subsection:
                                                                      $ 75.00
                                                                      plus $1.50
                                                                      per square
                                                                      foot of
 a. Nonilluminated signs (unless temporary)                          gross
                                                                      surface
                                                                      area of
                                                                      each face
                                                                      thereof
                                                                      75.00 plus
                                                                      $1.50 per
                                                                      square
                                                                      foot of
 b. Marquees, canopies and awnings                                   gross
                                                                      surface
                                                                      area of
                                                                      each face
                                                                      thereof
                                                                      150.00
                                                                      plus $1.50
                                                                      per square
                                                                      foot of
 c. Illuminated signs                                                gross
                                                                      surface
                                                                      area of
                                                                      each face
                                                                      thereof
12. Temporary Occupancy Permits:                                       
   Residential, per unit                                            75.00
   Nonresidential                                                   150.00
13. Reinspection Fee:                                                  
   Failed reinspection - all work                                   100.00
     Not ready - all work
   (work not ready for inspection or site could not be accessed/    100.00
     locked)
                                                                      150.00 per
14. Overtime Inspections: (if approved by the director of community   hour; 2
development)                                                          hour
                                                                      minimum
15. Work Commenced Without A Permit:                                   
                                                                      50 percent
                                                                      of normal
   Fee charged for work commenced prior to obtaining a required     permit
     permit                                                           fee;
                                                                      $100.00
                                                                      minimum
16. Minimum Permit Fee:                                                
   Minimum fee for any permit not otherwise specified above         200.00 per
                                                                      inspection
17. Racking Permit Fee:                                                
   Commercial storage racking permit                                100.00
18. Residential Fire Suppression Permit (13D):                        150.00
 
   C.   Business Licenses:
1. Ambulance service:                                           
                                                             
  For each ambulance                                60.00      
  For each attendant or attendant driver            20.00      
                                                             
2. Amusements:                                                  
                                                             
  Amusement devices, per machine                    75.00      
  Amusement rides, amusement                        220.00     
    attractions, carnivals and fairs, per day
  Animal shows - rodeos, per day                    110.00     
  Automobile show, per day                          110.00     
  Balloon contest, per day                          210.00     
  Circus or sideshow, per day                       110.00     
  Coin operated rides                               75.00      
  Fireworks display, per day                        110.00     
  Jukeboxes or other musical devices                75.00      
  Musical concert or entertainment,                 60.00      
    per day
                                                             
3. Athletic contest or exhibitions, per day           110.00     
                                                             
4. Scavengers:                                                  
                                                             
  Residential, per company                          1,000.00   
  Commercial, per company                           1,000.00   
                                                             
5. Taxicabs and limousines:                                     
                                                             
  For each vehicle                                  60.00      
  For each operator                                 20.00      
                                                             
6. Vending machines, per machine                      25.00      
                                                             
7. Gasoline and/or automobile service stations        110.00     
                                                             
8. Privately owned golf course and/or driving range   110.00     
                                                                
9. Outdoor storage facilities                         110.00     
                                                             
10. Outdoor Christmas tree sales                      35.00      
                                                             
11. Tobacco products                                  100.00  1  
                                                             
12. Yard waste land application                       510.00     
                                                             
13. All other businesses (based on total floor area):           
                                                             
 Total Floor Area In Square Feet                               
                                                               
 0 - 1,000 (minimum fee for any business)            45.00      
 1,001 - 5,000                                       55.00      
 5,001 - 10,000                                      70.00      
 10,001 - 20,000                                     110.00     
 20,001 - 40,000                                     145.00     
 40,001 - 75,000                                     160.00     
 75,001- 100,000                                     300.00     
 100,001+                                            500.00     
                                                                
14. Tree removal                                      50.00      
                                                                
15. Massage establishment                             200.00     
 
   D.   Engineering Review Fees: The Village Engineer, or his duly designated
representative, shall review all plans and specifications and shall inspect all
public and private improvements proposed to be made under this title during the
course of construction. The applicant shall pay to the Village as and for the
Village's costs for such engineering review and inspections, and related costs,
a fee according to the following fee structure, based upon the percentage of
the cost of construction of all site improvements other than buildings:
 
Cost Of Construction                                 Fee Percentage
Portion of costs under $500,000.00                  3.0%
Portion of costs from $500,000.00 to $1,000,000.00  2.75%
Portion of costs over $1,000,000.00                 2.5%
 
The required engineering and inspection fees shall be submitted to the Village
upon submission of final engineering plans for such improvements and prior to
Board of Trustees consideration of the final site plan and/or final plat. If
the building permit is revoked or canceled prior to commencement of
construction, the unused portion, up to fifty percent (50%), of the engineering
review and inspection fee shall be refunded. Otherwise, no refunds shall be
made. Upon submittal of any preliminary or final plat for Village review, the
applicant shall file with the Village application fees and a reimbursement of
fees agreement, in such amount and form as may be established from time to time
by ordinance or resolution of the Board of Trustees. The planning review fees
are nonrefundable. Should the actual engineering, inspection and related costs
be greater than the initial fee, the applicant shall pay said difference to the
Village, within thirty (30) days after the presentation of an itemized invoice
to the developer and prior to any final approval.
   E.   Commercial Filming Permit Fees: The application fee (and late
application fee, if applicable in line with subsection
3-14-5A of the Village Code), must be paid at the point of application. All
other fees are payable prior to the collection of an approved permit.
Reimbursement of staff time will be invoiced to the applicant on a regular, as
needed, basis.
Application Fee                                                 $100
Late application fee (additional)                               $50
Tier 1 Permit Fee (Monthly, minimum one month)                  $600
Tier 2 Permit Fee (Monthly, minimum one month)                  $350
Tier 3 Permit Fee                                               $150
Administrative Extension Fee                                    $100
Total closure of public street or right-of-way (per hour)       $50
Partial closure or obstruction of public street or right-of-way $25
Reimbursement of Staff Time                                     $Varies
Security Deposit (if required)                                  $Varies
 
(Ord. 90-17, 4-12-1990; amd. Ord. 94-10, 2-24-1994; Ord. 94-32, 5-12-1994; Ord.
94-51, 7-28-1994; Ord. 2001-21, 5-10-2001; Ord. 2001-22, 5-10-2001; Ord. 2002-
50, 12-12-2002; Ord. 2004-14, 4-15-2004; Ord. 2006-18, 4-20-2006; Ord. 2008-22,
5-1-2008; Ord. 2008-43, 9-18-2008; Ord. 2009-37, 8-6-2009; Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-
2010; Ord. 2011-43, 9-8-2011; Ord. 2013-53, 10-24-2013; Ord. 2016-48, 12-15-
2016; Ord. 2017-51, 9-21-2017; Ord. 2019-45, 10-3-2019; Ord. 2019-53, 11-21-
2019; Ord. 2020-7, 3-5-2020; Ord. 2021-32, 10-21-2021; Ord. 2024-18, 3-21-2024;
Ord. 2024-59, 12-19-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 3 of this code for subdivision platting procedures
  and requirements.
1 1. See title 7, chapter 5, articles B and C and title 8, chapter 1, article F
  of this code.
2 2. See title 8, chapter 1, article E of this code.
1 1. See section
  9-11-2 of this code.
1 1. Effective June 1, 2001, fees shall be computed at this rate.
CHAPTER 2
TAXES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-2-2: Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-2-3: Municipal Utility Tax
3-2-4: Municipal Use Tax
3-2-5: Real Estate Transfer Tax
3-2-6: Municipal Hotel Tax
3-2-7: Municipal Telecommunications Tax (Rep. by Ord. 2003-02, 1-23-2003, eff.
retroactive to 1-1-2003)
3-2-8: Municipal Motor Fuel Tax
3-2-9: Municipal Gas Use Tax
3-2-10: Locally Imposed And Administered Tax Rights And Responsibility
3-2-11: Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
3-2-12: Hotel Privilege Tax
3-2-13: Municipal Retailer’s Occupation Tax For Recreational Cannabis
3-2-1: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible
personal property titled or registered with an agency of this state's
government, at retail in this municipality at the rate of one and twenty-five
hundredths percent (1.25%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business while this chapter is in effect. Such tax shall not be
applicable to the sales of food for human consumption that is to be consumed
off the premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks,
and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and
non-prescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine
testing materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics. The imposition of
this home rule tax is pursuant to the provisions of Section
8-11-1  of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-1, as amended).
   B.   Report Required: Every person engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in the Village shall file, on or before
the twentieth day of each calendar month, the report to the state department of
revenue required by Section 3 of An Act in Relation to a Tax Upon Persons
Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to Purchasers for
Use or Consumptions (35 ILCS 120/3), approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   C.   Payment: At the time the report required by subsection B of this
section is filed, there shall be paid to the state department of revenue the
amount of tax imposed by the section on account of the receipts from sales of
tangible personal property during the preceding month.
   D.   Collection by State: The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties
that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by
the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois. The Department of Revenue
shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-8, 3-3-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-44, 12-7-2023)
3-2-2: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
municipality in the business of making sales of service, at the rate of one and
twenty-five hundredths percent (1.25%) of the selling price of all tangible
personal property transferred by such serviceman, either in the form of
tangible personal property or in the form of real estate, as an incident to a
sales of service. Such tax shall not be applicable to the sales of food for
human consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold
(other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and food which has been prepared
for immediate consumption) and prescription and non-prescription medicines,
drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, and syringes
and needles used by diabetics. The imposition of this home rule tax is pursuant
to the provisions of Section
8-11-5 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11- 5, as amended).
   B.   Report Required: Every person engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in the Village shall file, on or before
the twentieth day of each calendar month, the report to the state department of
revenue required by Section 3 of An Act in Relation to a Tax Upon Persons
Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to Purchasers for
Use or Consumptions (35 ILCS 120/3), approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   C.   Payment: At the time the report required by sub-section B of this
section is filed, there shall be paid to the state department of revenue the
amount of tax imposed by the section on account of the receipts from sales of
tangible personal property during the preceding month.
   D.   Collection by State: The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties
that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by
the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois. The Department of Revenue
shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2016-8, 3-3-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-44, 12-7-2023)
3-2-3: MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or electricity for use or consumption and not for
resale, as the case may be; and for all services rendered in connection
therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services and property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of
materials used, labor or service, cost or any other expenses whatsoever.
"Gross receipts" shall not include consideration received from the village for
the sale to said village of the above enumerated products or services.
"Gross receipts" shall not include: 1) amounts added to customers' bills under
section 9-222 of the public utilities act, or 2) amounts added to customers'
bills by taxpayers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois
commerce commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities
described in section 9-222 of the public utilities act.
"Gross receipts" shall not include amounts added to customers' bills under
section 9-221 of the public utilities act.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal corporation or
political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court.
PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purpose
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility, as defined in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
8-11-2, directly in the generation, production, transmission, delivery or sale
of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser. (1976 Code
§18-48; amd. Ord. 90-27, 4-26-1990; Ord. 98-41, 7-23-1998; Ord. 98-60, 11-12-
1998; Ord. 2003-02, 1-23-2003, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2003; Ord. 2006-62, 10-
19-2006, eff. 12-1-2006; Ord. 2016-42, 12-1-2016, eff. 1-1-2017)
   B.   Tax Imposed 1 : A municipal utility tax is imposed on all persons
engaged in the following occupations or privileges: (1976 Code §18-49)
      1.   (Rep. by Ord. 2003-02, 1-23-2003, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2003)
      2.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the village limits, and
not for resale. (Ord. 2006-62, 10-19-2006, eff. 12-1-2006)
      3.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling electricity for use or consumption within the village
limits and not for resale; provided, however, that said tax shall not be
imposed with respect to distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling
electricity where the privilege of using or consuming said electricity is
subject to the tax imposed under this subsection. (1976 Code §18-49; amd. Ord.
98-41, 7-23-1998)
      4.   Reserved. (Ord. 2016-42, 12-1-2016, eff. 1-1-2017)
      5.   Persons engaged in the privilege of using or consuming electricity
acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate
limits of the village. The tax under this subsection shall be imposed with
respect to the use or consumption of electricity by residential customers
beginning with the first bill issued to such customers on or after September 1,
1998; and with respect to the use or consumption of electricity by
nonresidential customers beginning with the first bill issued to such customers
for delivery services in accordance with section 16-104 of the public utilities
act 2 , or the first bill issued to such customers on or after January 1, 2001,
whichever issuance occurs sooner. (Ord. 98-41, 7-23-1998)
   C.   Exemption From Tax, Saving Clause: No tax is imposed by this section
with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the
extent to which such business may not, under the constitution and statutes of
the United States, be made subject to taxation by this state or any political
subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas or electricity be subject to
taxation under the provisions of this section for such transactions as are or
may become subject to taxation under the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-1.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this section
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining provisions hereof. (Ord. 2016-42, 12-1-2016, eff. 1-1-2017)
   D.   Tax Rate: The rates of municipal utility taxation shall be as follows:
(1976 Code §18-50)
      1.   Messages: (Rep. by Ord. 2003-02, 1-23-2003, eff. retroactive to 1-1-
2003)
      2.   Gas: Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the village limits and
not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross receipts
therefrom. (Ord. 2006-62, 10-19-2006, eff. 12-1-2006)
      3.   Electricity Not For Resale: Persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling electricity for use or
consumption within the village limits and not for resale, at the rate of five
percent (5%) of the gross receipts therefrom. (1976 Code §18-50)
      4.   Reserved. (Ord. 2016-42, 12-1-2016, eff. 1-1-2017)
      5.   Electricity Purchased At Retail:
         a.   Persons engaged in the privilege of using or consuming
electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the
corporate limits of the village at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
            (1)   For the first 2,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.567 cent per kilowatt hour;
            (2)   For the next 48,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.370 cent per kilowatt hour;
            (3)   For the next 50,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.364 cent per kilowatt hour;
            (4)   For the next 400,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.268 cent per kilowatt hour;
            (5)   For the next 500,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.027 cent per kilowatt hour;
            (6)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.023 cent per kilowatt hour;
            (7)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.019 cent per kilowatt hour;
            (8)   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.016 cent per kilowatt hour;
            (9)   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.013 cent per kilowatt hour; and
            (10)   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt hours in a month: 0.010 cent per kilowatt hour.
         b.   Subject to the provisions of subsection D5e of this section,
regarding the delivery of electricity to resellers, the tax imposed under
subsection B5 of this section shall be collected from purchasers by the person
maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers electricity to such
purchasers. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser and is recoverable at the same time
and in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity.
         c.   Any such tax required to be collected, and any such tax in fact
collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the village by the person delivering
the electricity, provided, that the person delivering electricity shall be
allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity the charges
for which are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that if such
charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to
remit such tax.
         d.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax they collect
to reimburse them for their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the village upon request. For purposes of this subsection D5, any partial
payment of a billed amount not specifically identified by the purchaser shall
be deemed to be for the delivery of electricity.
         e.   Electricity that is delivered to a person in this village shall
be considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the person
receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the Illinois
commerce commission, or such other appropriate governmental body or agency
having jurisdiction, and furnishes that number to the person who delivers the
electricity, and certifies to that person that the sale is either entirely or
partially nontaxable as a sale for resale.
            (1)   If a person who receives electricity in the village claims to
be an authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the
appropriate governmental body or agency for a resale number. Such person shall
provide the village with a copy of said resale number and shall furnish such
additional information as the village may reasonably require to demonstrate
that such person is not liable for the tax imposed by this section on any
purchases of electricity. Upon receipt of such information, the village shall
issue confirmation of such person's status as a reseller under this section.
            (2)   The village may revoke such person's status as a reseller
under this section if the person fails to pay any tax payable under this
section for electricity used or consumed by the person; if the number was
obtained through misrepresentation; and/or if the number is no longer necessary
because the person has discontinued making resales.
            (3)   If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or
consumption and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed
pursuant to this section directly to the village as to the amount of
electricity that the reseller uses or consumes, and shall collect and remit
said tax as to the amount of electricity delivered by the reseller to a
purchaser.
            (4)   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an
active resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section
shall be excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the
electricity delivered to the reseller, provided that the person reports to the
village the total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller, and such
other information that the village may reasonably require. (Ord. 98-41, 7-23-
1998)
   E.   Tax Is An Additional Tax: The municipal utility tax shall be in
addition to the payment of money, or value of products or services furnished to
the village by the taxpayer as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys
or other public places, or installation and maintenance therein, thereon or
thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used in the operation of
the taxpayers' business. (1976 Code §18-52)
   F.   Tax Return Required:
      1.   On or before the last day of each and every month, each taxpayer
and/or tax collector, shall make a return to the director of finance for the
calendar month preceding the month in which the return is to be made,
including:
         a.   The name of the taxpayer or tax collector;
         b.   The principal place of business of the taxpayer or tax collector;
         c.   The gross receipts of the taxpayer; except with respect to the
tax imposed under subsection B5 of this section, in which case the return shall
state the number of kilowatt hours, within each of the categories set forth
therein, sold by the tax collector to the purchasers, and in the event that the
purchaser is required to pay said tax directly to the village, the number of
kilowatt hours within each of said categories used or consumed by the taxpayer;
(Ord. 2005-57, 9-15-2005)
         d.   A spreadsheet or similar document, transmitted electronically or
in such other format as specified by the director of finance, listing each
address to which gas or electricity was distributed, supplied, furnished, sold
or delivered, along with the amount of gross receipts or kilowatt hours, as
applicable, the taxpayer and/or tax collector is attributing to each such
address for purposes of calculating the amount of tax; (Ord. 2016-42, 12-1-
2016, eff. 1-1-2017)
         e.   The amount of tax;
         f.   Such other information as the director of finance may require.
(Ord. 2005-57, 9-15-2005)
      2.   At the time of filing said return, the taxpayer or the tax
collector, as the case may be, shall pay to the village the amount of the tax
imposed pursuant to this section; provided, however, that a taxpayer being
taxed on the basis of gross receipts may elect to report and pay an amount of
tax based upon the total billings subject to the tax during the period for
which the return is made, exclusive of any amounts previously billed, with
prompt adjustments of later payments based upon any differences between such
billings and the taxable gross receipts.
      3.   Every taxpayer and/or tax collector required to pay the tax imposed
by this section shall keep accurate books and records of its business or
activities, including contemporaneous books and records denoting the
transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under
this section. Said books and records shall be subject to and available for
inspection by the village and/or its designated agents at all times during the
business hours of the taxpayer and/or tax collector. (Ord. 98-41, 7-23-1998)
      4.   Any person who fails to include all of the information required to
be shown on a return or who includes inaccurate information on a return shall
pay a penalty of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) per day nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) per day until such inaccuracy or omission is
corrected; provided, however, that should any omission or inaccuracy be
corrected within sixty (60) days after the required filing date, the penalty
shall be reduced by fifty percent (50%). Such penalty shall be in addition to
any other fine or penalty imposed for other violations of this chapter. (Ord.
2007-18, 4-5-2007, eff. retroactive to 9-15-2005)
   G.   Payment Of Tax: The taxpayer making the return specified in subsection
F of this section shall, at the time of making the return, pay to the director
of finance the amount of tax herein imposed; provided, that in connection with
any return, the taxpayer may, if he so elects, report and pay an amount based
upon his total billings of business subject to the tax during the period for
which the return is made, exclusive of any amounts previously billed, with
prompt adjustments of later payments based upon any differences between such
billings and the taxable gross receipts. (1976 Code §18-54)
   H.   Interest And Penalties: It shall be unlawful for any taxpayer to fail
to make a return, or to make a fraudulent return, or to wilfully violate any
other provision of this section. (Ord. 2001-14, 4-26-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03,
1-22-2004)
Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have relating to the enforcement of this
section, or the collection of the amount of any tax due hereunder. (Ord. 2001-
04, 1-25-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 1-22-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2(1); 35 ILCS 610/1 et seq., 615/1 et seq.; 65 ILCS 5/8-11-
  2(3); 35 ILCS 620/1; 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1(4).
2 1. 220 ILCS 5/16-104.
3-2-4: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Rate: A home rule municipal use tax is hereby imposed in
accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-6, as
amended, upon the privilege of using in the village any item of tangible
personal property which is purchased at retail from a retailer, and which is
titled or registered at a location within the village with an agency of the
state of Illinois. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%) of the
selling price of such tangible personal property with "selling price" to have
the meaning as defined in the use tax act, approved July 14, 1955, as amended.
(1976 Code §18-66; amd. 1991 Code)
   B.   Collection Of Tax: Such tax shall be collected from persons whose
Illinois address for titling or registration purposes is given as being in the
village. Such tax shall be collected by the village. (1991 Code)
3-2-5: REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
BENEFICIAL INTEREST: Any interest, regardless of how small or minimal such
interest may be, in a land trust held by a trustee for the benefit of
beneficiaries of such land trust.
PERSON: Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor, conservator,
assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, copartnership, joint
venture, club, company, joint stock company, business trust, municipal
corporation, political subdivision of the state of Illinois, domestic or
foreign corporation, association, syndicate, society or any group of
individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit
or otherwise, and the United States of America or any instrumentality thereof.
Whenever the term "person" is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty, the term as applied to associations shall mean the owners or part
owners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
RECORDATION: The recording of deeds or other instruments with the office of the
recorders of deeds of DuPage and/or Will Counties, Illinois.
VALUE: The full amount of the actual consideration for any transfer covered
hereunder, including the amount of any mortgage, lien or liens assumed by the
grantee or purchaser.
VILLAGE: The village of Woodridge, DuPage and Will Counties, Illinois.
   B.   Tax Imposed; Rate: A tax is hereby imposed on the transfer of title to
real property located in the village by any person as evidenced by the
recordation of a deed, or by the delivery of a deed, agreement or assignment of
any interest in such real property, whether the same:
      1.   Vests in a person the legal title to or a beneficial interest in
such real property,
      2.   Vests in a person possession or use of such property for any
purpose, or
      3.   Secures the future payment of money or the future transfer of such
property.
The transfer tax hereby imposed and levied shall be two dollars fifty cents
($2.50) for every one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) of value, or fraction
thereof, of such real property, as stated in the declaration required under
subsection E of this section. (1976 Code §18-72)
   C.   Liability For Tax: The primary liability for payment of said transfer
tax shall be borne by the grantor or seller involved in any transaction
described herein; provided, however, that it shall be unlawful for the grantee
or purchaser to accept a conveyance or assignment if this transfer tax has not
been paid. Where the transfer tax has not been paid and the requisite revenue
stamps affixed to the deed or assignment, the grantee's title shall be subject
to the lien provided in subsection H of this section, and the grantee or
purchaser shall be liable for payment of the transfer tax. The transfer tax
herein imposed shall be in addition to any and all other taxes imposed, levied
or collected. (1976 Code §18-73)
   D.   Payment And Collection Of Tax: The transfer tax herein levied and
imposed shall be paid to and collected by the village administrator, or his
designee, through the sale of revenue stamps which the village administrator or
his designee shall cause to be prepared. Such revenue stamps shall be in a
design to be established by the village administrator and shall be available
for sale during regular business hours at the Woodridge village hall. Upon
payment of the transfer tax herein levied and imposed, the revenue stamps so
purchased shall be affixed to the deed, assignment or other involved instrument
of conveyance or transfer. Any person so using and affixing such revenue stamps
shall cancel and deface the same so as to render them unfit for reuse by
marking them with his initials and the day, month and year when the affixing
occurs. Such markings shall be made by writing or stamping in indelible ink or
by perforating with a machine or punch.
However, the revenue stamps shall not be so defaced as to prevent ready
determination of their denomination and genuineness.
Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to the contrary, no revenue
stamps shall be issued for a parcel of property until such time as any and all
debts due and owing the Village with respect to such parcel of property have
been paid in full. In addition, the Director of Finance shall issue no real
estate transfer tax stamps to any person or entity unless a compliance release
is obtained from the Community Development Department affirming there are no
outstanding building permits, inspection fees, property maintenance fines and/
or liens, or zoning entitlements required prior to the issuance of any real
estate transfer stamp. (1976 Code §18-74)
In the event that the final water bill of the property is not calculated and
issued at such time as the application and payment for revenue stamps is made,
then the Village shall collect, as a deposit, an amount equal to the greater of
two hundred dollars ($200.00) or equal to the highest bill over the past six
(6) billing cycles for the property. The deposit shall be applied toward the
final water bill. If the deposit is greater than the amount of the final water
bill, the amount remaining after the payment of the final water bill shall be
refunded to the account holder. If the deposit is less than the amount of the
final water bill, notification will be made to the account holder of the amount
remaining on the account after application of the deposit to the final water
bill. Said amount shall be payable as provided in subsection
7-5A-8D2 of this Code.
   E.   Declaration: At the time this Transfer Tax is paid as herein provided,
the following shall be presented and filed with the Village Administrator, or
his designee:
      1.   A declaration in the form prescribed by the Village Administrator
and signed by at least one (1) of the sellers or grantors and also signed by at
least one (1) of the purchasers or grantees involved in the transaction, or by
their attorneys or agents, which declaration, in addition to other information
therein required, shall recite the full consideration for the property
transferred. Where the declaration is signed by an attorney or agent of a
beneficiary or beneficiaries who have the power of direction to deal with the
title to the real property under a land trust agreement, said attorney or agent
need only identify the land trust which is the repository of record legal title
and not the beneficiary or beneficiaries having the power of direction under
the land trust agreement.
      2.   A copy of the signed deed, assignment or other instrument of
conveyance or transfer involved in the transaction which is subject to the
Transfer Tax herein imposed and which reflects the date of the transaction
which it evidences, the names of the grantor and grantee and a legal
description of the property to which it relates.
      3.   A copy of the pertinent real estate transfer declaration filed, or
to be filed, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 of the Real Estate
Transfer Act of the State of Illinois 1 .
The information provided as required under this subsection shall be deemed
confidential and shall be so treated by the Village and its agents and
employees. (1976 Code §18-75)
      4.   In the case of the transfer of title of a "multiple-family
dwelling", as defined in section
3-9A-1 of this title, that is, at the time of transfer of said title, the
subject of a compliance order or notice of violation under the Village's
Housing Code, a signed and notarized statement from the grantee or purchaser
acknowledging receipt from the grantor or seller of such compliance order or
notice of violation and fully accepting the responsibility without condition
for making the corrections or repairs required by such compliance order or
notice of violation.
   F.   Exempt Transactions: The Transfer Tax imposed by this section shall not
apply to the following exempt transactions or transfers, provided the
declaration form required under the provisions of subsection E of this section
in each case is accompanied by a certificate in the form prescribed by the
Village Administrator, setting forth facts evidencing the exempt nature of the
transaction or transfer, as hereinafter provided:
      1.   Transactions involving property acquired from any governmental body,
or from any corporation, society, association, foundation or institution
organized and operated exclusively for charitable, religious or not-for-profit
educational purposes;
      2.   Transactions in which the deeds or assignments secure debt or other
obligations;
      3.   Transactions in which a deed, without additional consideration,
confirms, corrects, modifies or supplements a deed previously recorded;
      4.   Transactions in which the total actual consideration is less than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00);
      5.   Transactions in which the deeds are tax deeds;
      6.   Transactions in which the deeds or assignments are releases of
property which are security for a debt or other obligation;
      7.   Transactions in which the deeds or assignments are for purposes of
partition;
      8.   Transactions made pursuant to mergers, consolidations recorded or
delivered pursuant to court order or decree; transfers or sales of
substantially all of the assets of a corporation pursuant to plans of
reorganization;
      9.   Transactions between subsidiary corporations and related parent
corporations for no consideration other than the cancellation or surrender of
the subsidiary corporation's shares;
      10.   Transactions representing transfers subject to the imposition of a
Documentary Stamp Tax imposed by the government of the United States of
America;
      11.   Transactions effected by operation of law;
      12.   A transfer by lease;
      13.   A transfer from an executor or administrator to a legatee, heir or
distributee where the transfer is being made pursuant to will or by intestacy;
      14.   A transfer from a minor to his guardian or from a guardian to his
ward upon attaining majority;
      15.   A transfer from an incompetent to his conservator, or similar legal
representative, or from a conservator or similar legal representative to a
former incompetent upon removal of disability;
      16.   A transfer from a bank, trust company, financial institution,
insurance company or other similar entity, or nominee, custodian or trustee
therefor, to a public officer or commission, or person designated by such
officer or commission or by a court, in the taking over of its assets, in whole
or in part, under state or federal law regulating or supervising such
institutions, nor upon redelivery or retransfer by any such transferee or
successor thereto;
      17.   A transfer from a bankrupt person or person in receivership due to
insolvency to the trustee in bankruptcy or receiver, from such receiver to such
trustee or from such trustee to such receiver, or upon redelivery or retransfer
by any such transferee or successor thereto;
      18.   A transfer from a transferee under subsections F13 through F17 of
this section, to his successor acting in the same capacity, or from one such
successor to another;
      19.   A transfer from a foreign country or a national thereof, to the
United States of America, or any agency thereof, or to the government of any
foreign country directed pursuant to authority vested in the president of the
United States by section 5(b) of the trading with the enemy act (40 stat. 415),
as amended by the first war powers act (55 stat. 839);
      20.   A transfer from trustees to surviving, substitute, succeeding or
additional trustees of the same trust;
      21.   A transfer upon the death of a joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety, to the survivor or survivors thereof;
      22.   Transactions wherein there are actual exchanges of real estate
except that the money difference or monies' worth paid from one to the other
shall not be exempt from the tax. (1976 Code §18-76)
   G.   Transfers In Trust: No trustee of real property shall accept an
assignment of beneficial interest in such real property located in the village
which is subject to the transfer tax herein imposed without first obtaining a
copy of the signed form of declaration provided for under the provisions of
subsection E of this section, and unless revenue stamps in the amount required
under the provisions of this section have been affixed to the assignment and
canceled as herein provided. (1976 Code §18-77)
   H.   Lien Created; Foreclosure: In the event a deed is filed for recordation
or there is an assignment of beneficial interest conveying or transferring real
property within the corporate limits of the village without the revenue stamps
provided by this section, a lien is declared against said real property
conveyed or transferred in the amount of the tax. The fact that the deed or
assignment does not contain a village revenue stamp in an amount equal to the
transfer tax imposed pursuant to subsection B of this section, shall constitute
constructive notice of the lien. In addition, the village administrator may
record a lien for the nonpayment of the tax provided for herein. The lien may
be enforced by proceedings to foreclose, as in cases of mortgages or mechanics'
liens. Suit to foreclose this lien must be commenced within three (3) years
after the date of recording the deed or the delivery of the assignment. Nothing
contained herein shall be construed as preventing the village from bringing a
civil action to collect the tax imposed by this section from any person who has
the ultimate liability for payment of the same, including interest and
penalties as hereinafter provided. (1976 Code §18-78)
   I.   Enforcement; Suit For Collection: Whenever any person shall fail to pay
the tax imposed herein, or any purchaser or grantee shall accept a conveyance
or transfer where the tax has not been paid, the village attorney shall, upon
request of the corporate authorities, bring, or cause to be brought, an action
to enforce the payment of said tax, including interest and penalties as
hereinafter provided, on behalf of the village in any court of competent
jurisdiction. (1976 Code §18-79)
   J.   Interest And Penalties: If a person fails to collect or purchase a real
estate transfer tax stamp or obtain a real estate transfer exempt stamp, as
required by this section, within thirty (30) days after the date in which title
is transferred, a late penalty fee in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100.00) on day thirty one (31) shall apply and one hundred dollars ($100.00)
every month thereafter. In addition, underpayment or nonpayment of any tax due
hereunder shall be subject to interest and other penalties as set forth in
section
3-2-10 of this chapter. Any person violating any other provision of this
section, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than
the maximum amount permitted by section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have relating to the enforcement of this
section, or the collection of the amount of any tax due hereunder.
   K.   Proceeds Of Tax: All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the
transfer tax provided for under this section, including interest and penalties,
shall be paid into the treasury of the village and shall be credited to and
deposited in the general fund of the village. (1976 Code §18-81)
   L.   Reserved.
   M.   Refund Of Tax: A grantor or seller who has paid the tax provided for in
this section shall be entitled to a refund of such tax (less $25.00 processing
fee) in the event such grantor or seller:
      1.   Previously owned and occupied a single-family attached or detached
dwelling or a condominium unit within the corporate limits of the Village which
is the subject of the tax provided for in this section as his principal
residence;
      2.   Did not rent or lease any portion of the previously owned dwelling
or unit to another person or persons; and
      3.   Subsequently owns and occupies a single-family attached or detached
dwelling or condominium unit within the corporate limits of the Village as his
principal residence within a one year period from the date of payment of the
tax provided for in this section. Such ownership shall be evidenced by a signed
deed or the real estate settlement procedures act document received at the
closing of such dwelling or unit.
   N.   Exempt Transaction Processing Fee: A processing fee in the amount of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be collected by the Director of Finance of
the Village for real estate transfer stamps issued for transactions determined
to be exempt as provided for in subsection F of this section. Upon payment of
the fee, the revenue stamp so issued shall be marked "exempt" and shall be
affixed to the deed, assignment or other involved instrument of conveyance or
transfer. (1991 Code; amd. Ord. 94-81, 11-10-1994; Ord. 96-18, 5-9-1996; Ord.
99-57, 8-26-1999; Ord. 2000-01, 1-13-2000; Ord. 2001-04, 1-25-2001; Ord. 2005-
18, 4-7-2005; Ord. 2009-01, 1-15-2009; Ord. 2009-10, 4-2-2009; Ord. 2009-19, 4-
16-2009; Ord. 2012-36, 6-28-2012; Ord. 2017-29, 7-20-2017; Ord. 2022-14, 3-3-
2022)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 305/1 et seq.
3-2-6: MUNICIPAL HOTEL TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this tax, the following definitions shall
apply:
GROSS RENTAL RECEIPTS: The total amount of consideration for occupancy, valued
in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash,
credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, including, but not
limited to, amounts charged for making, servicing or facilitating reservations.
Gross rental receipts shall not include taxes or other charges not related to
the room occupancy or making, servicing or facilitating reservations. Gross
rental receipts shall also not include the proceeds of such renting, leasing or
letting to permanent residents of that hotel.
HOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a consideration,
obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations. The term
includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging houses, rooming houses
and apartment houses.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any room
or rooms in a hotel for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint adventure, public or private corporation, or a receiver,
executor, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any
court.
ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
(1976 Code §18-92; amd. Ord. 2018-4, 2-15-2018)
   B.   Tax Imposed; Rate: There is hereby levied and imposed upon all persons
engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel in the
Village, or making, facilitating or servicing the renting, leasing or letting
of rooms in a hotel in the Village, a tax of one percent (1%) on the gross
rental receipts therefrom. (Ord. 2018-4, 2-15-2018)
   C.   Exemptions From Tax: A taxpayer subject to the tax imposed in
subsection B of this section may claim an exemption for gross rental receipts
subject to said tax, if gross rental receipts are derived from binding and
guaranteed room contract(s) entered into, on or before January 1, 1987. In
order to claim this exemption, the taxpayer must submit written proof of said
binding and guaranteed contract in a form satisfactory to the Corporate
Authorities on the monthly tax return required in subsection D of this section
during the month in which said exempt gross receipts are received by the
taxpayer. Failure by the taxpayer to claim said exemption in the month in which
said gross receipts are received shall constitute an automatic waiver and bar
to receipt of said exemption. (1976 Code §18-91)
   D.   Return: Each person subject to the tax imposed in subsection B of this
section shall make a tax return as required by this subsection to the Village
Director of Finance on or before the twentieth day of each month stating:
      1.   Name;
      2.   Principal place of business;
      3.   Gross receipts during the prior month upon the basis of which the
tax is imposed;
      4.   Amount of tax;
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the Corporate
Authorities may require.
Each person making the return shall, at the time of making such return, pay to
the Village Director of Finance the amount of tax herein imposed. (1976 Code
§18-93)
   E.   Reimbursement Of Tax: Persons subject to the tax imposed by this
section may reimburse themselves for their tax liability by separately stating
such tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with the State tax imposed under the "Hotel Operators
Occupation Tax Act", 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 145/1 et seq., as amended.
(1976 Code §18-94)
   F.   Books And Records: Every person subject to the tax imposed by this
section shall keep separate books or records of his business so as to show the
amounts taxable under this section separately from his transactions not taxable
hereunder. If any such person fails to keep such separate books or records, he
shall be liable for the tax at the rate designated in subsection B of this
section upon the entire proceeds from his hotel or the making, facilitating or
servicing of hotel reservations. (Ord. 2018-4, 2-15-2018)
   G.   Proceeds: The proceeds from the tax collected pursuant to this section
shall be used solely to promote tourism and conventions in the Village or
otherwise permitted by State law. No such funds shall be used to advertise for
or otherwise promote new competition in the hotel business. (1976 Code §18-97)
   H.   Interest And Penalties: Late payment, underpayment or nonpayment of any
tax due hereunder shall be subject to interest and penalties as set forth in
section
3-2-10 of this chapter. Any person violating any other provision of this
section, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than
the maximum amount permitted by section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village may have relating to the enforcement of this
section, or the collection of the amount of any tax due hereunder. (Ord. 2001-
04, 1-25-2001)
3-2-7: MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX:
(Rep. by Ord. 2003-02, 1-23-2003, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2003)
3-2-8: MUNICIPAL MOTOR FUEL TAX:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
MOTOR FUEL: All volatile liquids compounded or used for fueling motor vehicles,
including gasoline, gasohol, compressed natural gas and diesel fuel.
MOTOR FUEL RETAILER: Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
selling motor fuel at retail, and not for resale. (Ord. 97-25, 6-26-1997)
   B.   Tax Imposed 1 : There is hereby imposed and levied a tax upon the
retail purchase within the village of motor fuel, at the rate of four cents
($0.04) per gallon or fraction thereof. This tax shall be in addition to any
and all other taxes and charges, but such other taxes and charges shall not be
construed as part of the purchase price upon which the tax herein is levied.
(Ord. 97-25, 6-26-1997; amd. Ord. 2006-23, 5-4-2006; Ord. 2015-55, 11-5-2015)
   C.   Responsibility For Payment: The ultimate incidence and liability for
payment of such tax shall be upon the retail purchaser of motor fuel. Nothing
herein shall be construed to impose a tax upon the occupation of selling motor
fuel.
   D.   Collection Of Tax And Report Transmittal:
      1.   Each motor fuel retailer within the village limits shall have the
duty to collect the municipal motor fuel tax from each purchaser and to pay it
over to the village, along with an accounting therefor, on return forms
provided by the village. (Ord. 97-25, 6-26-1997)
      2.   The return and tax payment shall be filed with the director of
finance no later than the twentieth day of the calendar month following the
month of collection. Each tax form shall be accompanied by a signed copy of the
Illinois department of revenue form ST-1 (sales and use tax form). (Ord. 97-25,
6-26-1997; amd. Ord. 2017-12, 4-6-2017)
   E.   Registration And Maintenance Of Records:
      1.   Each motor fuel retailer shall register with the village on forms
provided by the village. (Ord. 97-25, 6-26-1997)
      2.   Each motor fuel retailer shall have the duty to maintain complete
and accurate books, records and accounts showing the gross receipts for the
sale of motor fuel and the taxes collected from the purchaser thereof, which
shall be available to the village for examination.
   F.   Interest And Penalties: Late payment, underpayment or nonpayment of any
tax due hereunder shall be subject to interest and penalties as set forth in
section
3-2-10 of this chapter. Any person violating any other provision of this
section, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than
the maximum amount permitted by section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have relating to the enforcement of this
section, or the collection of the amount of any tax due hereunder. (Ord. 2001-
04, 1-25-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. Effective January 1, 2016.
3-2-9: MUNICIPAL GAS USE TAX:
   A.   Short Title: The tax imposed by this section shall be known as the
"municipal gas use tax" and is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed
by the village, the state of Illinois, or any other municipal corporation or
political subdivision thereof.
   B.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association, joint
stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
PUBLIC UTILITIES ACT: The public utilities act 1 , as amended.
PUBLIC UTILITY: A public utility as defined in section 3-105 of the public
utilities act.
RETAIL PURCHASER: Any person who purchases gas in a sale at retail.
SALE AT RETAIL: Any sale of gas by a retailer to a person for use or
consumption, and not for resale. For this purpose, the term "retailer" means
any person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas.
   C.   Tax:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided by this section, a tax is imposed on
the privilege of using or consuming gas in the village that is purchased in a
sale at retail at the rate of five cents ($0.05) per therm.
      2.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on
the retail purchaser, and nothing in this section shall be construed to impose
a tax on the occupation of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling or
transporting gas.
      3.   The retail purchaser shall pay the tax, measured by therms of gas
delivered to the retail purchaser's premises, to the public utility designated
to collect the tax pursuant to subsection D of this section on or before the
payment due date of the public utility's bill first reflecting the tax, or
directly to the village's director of finance on or before the fifteenth day of
the second month following the month in which the gas is delivered to the
retail purchaser if no public utility has been designated to collect the tax
pursuant to subsection D of this section or if the gas is delivered by a person
other than a public utility so designated.
      4.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to impose a tax upon any
person, business or activity which, under the constitutions of the United
States or state of Illinois, may not be made the subject of taxation by the
village.
      5.   A person who purchases gas for resale and therefore does not pay the
tax imposed by this section with respect to the use or consumption of the gas,
but who later uses or consumes part or all of the gas, shall pay the tax
directly to the village's director of finance on or before the fifteenth day of
the second month following the month in which the gas is used or consumed.
      6.   The tax shall apply to gas for which the delivery to the retail
purchaser is billed by a public utility on or after February 1, 2012.
      7.   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this section, whether as a result of mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be: a) credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment or b) subject to a refund if no such tax is due or to become
due; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior
to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited or refunded.
      8.   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this section shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of
such amount.
      9.   To prevent multiple taxation, the use of gas in the village by a
retail purchaser shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this section if the
gross receipts from the sale at retail of such gas to the retail purchaser are
properly subject to a tax imposed upon the seller of such gas pursuant to the
village's municipal utility tax, as amended from time to time (section
3-2-3 of this chapter) authorized pursuant to section
8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code 2 .
   D.   Collection Of Tax By Public Utility: The mayor, director of finance,
and village administrator are each authorized to enter into a contract for
collection of the tax imposed by this section with any public utility providing
gas service in the village. The contract shall include and substantially
conform with the following provisions:
      1.   The public utility will collect the tax from retail purchasers as an
independent contractor.
      2.   The public utility will remit collected taxes to the village's
director of finance no more often than once each month.
      3.   The public utility will be entitled to withhold from tax collections
a service fee equal to three percent (3%) of the amounts collected and timely
remitted to the village's director of finance.
      4.   The public utility shall not be responsible to the village for any
tax not actually collected from a retail purchaser.
      5.   Such additional terms as the parties may agree upon.
   E.   Books And Records: Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and
records, including original source documents and books of entry, denoting the
activities or transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise to any tax
liability or exemption under this section. All such books and records shall, at
all times during business hours, be subject to and available for inspection by
the village. (Ord. 2012-1, 1-12-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
2 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3-2-10: LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this section shall apply to the village's
procedures in connection with all of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Definitions: Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
ACT: The local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 45/1 et seq.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village's mayor and board of trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village's director of finance or other village
officer charged with the administration or collection of a locally imposed and
administered tax, including any staff, employees or agents to the extent they
are authorized by a local tax administrator to act in the local tax
administrator's stead. The local tax administrator shall have the authority to
implement the terms of this section to give full effect to this section. The
exercise of such authority by a local tax administrator shall not be
inconsistent with this section and the act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village, not an agency or department
of the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under
the property tax code or fees collected by the village other than
infrastructure maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Woodridge.
   C.   Notices: Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be
given, the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar
days prior to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other
scheduled act of the local tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the
local tax administrator as follows:
      1.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the person's last known address, or
      2.   Personal service or delivery.
   D.   Late Payment: Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required
to be made to the village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered
late unless it is: 1) physically received by the village on or before the due
date, or 2) received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
   E.   Payment: Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be
applied in the following order: 1) first to the tax due for the applicable
period; 2) second to the interest due for the applicable period; and 3) third
to the penalty for the applicable period.
   F.   Credits And Refunds:
      1.   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
      2.   Unless the corporate authorities of the village have expressly
adopted a shorter statute of limitations for a particular locally imposed and
administered tax, the statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund
shall be four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in
error was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not
paid the amounts directly to the village.
      3.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
         a.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in
writing a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
            (1)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject
to the claim;
            (2)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
            (3)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
canceled check or receipt for the payment;
            (4)   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
            (5)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with
the claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid,
and, as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
that there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer
owes any monies to the village.
         b.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax
administrator of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator
shall either:
            (1)   Grant the claim; or
            (2)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a
statement as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
         c.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit.
   G.   Audit Procedure: Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any locally
imposed and administered tax shall comply with the notice requirements of this
section.
      1.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
         a.   The tax;
         b.   The time period of the audit; and
         c.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
      2.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
      3.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator have agreed to some other convenient time. In
the event the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in
question, the taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days,
approved in writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax
administrator.
      4.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      5.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided,
the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based
on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's
tax liability.
      6.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
      7.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
   H.   Appeal:
      1.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
         a.   The reason for the assessment;
         b.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
         c.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
         d.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund
and collection process.
      2.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination
and assessment.
      3.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
      4.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within
the forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment
shall become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
      5.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period.
   I.   Hearing:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under subsection H of this section, the local
tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      3.   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer shall be provided with a copy of the written decision.
   J.   Interest And Penalties: In the event a determination has been made that
a tax is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax
must be paid within the time frame otherwise indicated. (Ord. 2001-04, 1-25-
2001)
      1.   Reserved. (Ord. 2017-12, 4-6-2017)
      2.   If a tax return is not filed within the time and manner provided by
the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing penalty of five percent (5%) of
the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return shall be imposed; and
a late payment penalty of five percent (5%) of the tax due shall be imposed. If
no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the controlling tax
ordinance and prior to the village issuing a notice of tax delinquency or
notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be assessed equal
to twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax due for the applicable reporting
period for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment
penalty shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed.
   K.   Abatement: The local tax administrator shall have the authority to
waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file
penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists
for delay or failure to make a filing.
   L.   Installment Contracts: The village may enter into an installment
contract with the taxpayer for the payment of taxes under the controlling tax
ordinance. The local tax administrator may not cancel any installment contract
so entered unless the taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon
written notice by the local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30)
days delinquent, the taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any
delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen
(14) day period or fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the
installment contract with the local administrator, the installment contract
shall be canceled without further notice to the taxpayer.
   M.   Statute Of Limitations: The village, through the local tax
administrator, shall review all tax returns in a prompt and timely manner and
inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty
five (45) days after receiving notice of the reviewed tax returns to make any
request for refund or provide any tax still due and owing.
      1.   Unless the corporate authorities of the village have expressly
adopted a shorter statute of limitations for a particular locally imposed and
administered tax, no determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than
four (4) years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      2.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
      3.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
   N.   Voluntary Disclosure: For any locally imposed and administered tax for
which a taxpayer has not received a written notice of an audit, investigation,
or assessment from the local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file
an application with the local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of
the tax due. A taxpayer filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to
pay the amount of tax due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month,
for all periods prior to the filing of the application but not more than four
(4) years before the date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid
voluntary disclosure application may not be liable for any additional tax,
interest, or penalty for any period before the date the application was filed.
However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax
due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable
interest on the underpaid tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud
on the part of the taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed
invalid and void. The payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than
ninety (90) days after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or
the date agreed to by the local tax administrator. However, any additional
amounts owed as a result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid
under this section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final
determination and the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed
or the date agreed to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer.
   O.   Publication Of Tax Ordinances: Any locally administered tax ordinance
shall be published via normal or standard publishing requirements. The posting
of a tax ordinance on the internet shall satisfy the publication requirements.
Copies of all tax ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request
at the village clerk's office. (Ord. 2001-04, 1-25-2001)
   P.   Liens: The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
      1.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
      2.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
      3.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
2007-18, 4-5-2007, eff. retroactive to 9-15-2005)
   Q.   Application: This section shall be liberally construed and administered
to supplement all of the village's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax
ordinance is in conflict with or inconsistent with this section, this section
shall be controlling.
   R.   Severability: If any section, paragraph or provision of this section
shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or
unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any
of the remaining provisions of this section. (Ord. 2001-04, 1-25-2001)
3-2-11: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in the
village regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the village and for all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money whether paid in
money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
this state, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
this state, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within Illinois. However, "gross charge" shall not include:
      1.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: a) the tax imposed by this section, b) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, c) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, d) 911 surcharges, or e) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
      2.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of the
village;
      3.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
      4.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      5.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and community
affairs;
      6.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this section has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
      7.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      8.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices; or
      9.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of
any court, the federal and state governments, including state universities
created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision
of this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Every person engaged in the business of making sales at retail as
defined in this subsection. The department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment
of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term): Any
retailer having or maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary,
an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales office,
warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other representative
operating within this state under the authority of the retailer or its
subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or other
representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether such
retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services and equipment provided in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees, or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in the village and who incurs a tax liability as authorized
by this section.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two- way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this section, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this section. For purposes of this subsection,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupations tax act.
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following
acts or privileges:
      1.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in
the village intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent
(6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer.
      2.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in
the village interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent
(6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or privilege that is
subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon proof that the
taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be allowed a
credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this paragraph to
the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state
which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local
tax in this state.
      3.   The tax imposed by this subsection is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
village.
   C.   Collection Of Tax By Retailers:
      1.   The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this section
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
department in the manner provided by the department.
      2.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this section shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
   D.   Returns To Department: Commencing on February 1, 2003, on or before the
last day of each month, the tax imposed under this section on telecommunication
retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required
by the department pursuant to section 5-50 of the simplified municipal
telecommunications tax act and any accompanying rules and regulations created
by the department to implement the act.
   E.   Resellers:
      1.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to
be a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this section on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
      2.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a
resale number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant.
The department may cancel any number which is obtained through
misrepresentation, or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication
tax free when such actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer
applies because of the person having discontinued the making of resales.
      3.   Except as provided hereinabove in this subsection E, the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall
not be made tax free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the
person has an active resale number from the department and furnishes that
number to the retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any
sale to such person is nontaxable because of being a sale for resale.
   F.   Repealer: If the Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act is
repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason, or if this section is repealed
or becomes ineffective for any reason, then the provisions repealed in the 1976
Code sections 18-48 through 18-51, ordinance 90-27, passed April 26, 1990,
ordinance 96-21, passed May 3, 1996, effective July 23, 1996, ordinance 97-60,
passed October 23, 1997, ordinance 97-61, passed October 23, 1997, ordinance
98-41, passed July 23, 1998, ordinance 98-60, passed November 12, 1998, and
ordinance 2001-04, passed January 25, 2001, as they applied to
Telecommunications Taxes, shall be deemed in full force and as of the date the
Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act or this section is repealed or
becomes ineffective. (Ord. 2003-02, 1-23-2003, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2003)
3-2-12: HOTEL PRIVILEGE TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this tax, the following definitions shall
apply:
BOOKING AGENT: Any person or persons, as defined in section
1-3-2 of this Code, who makes, services or facilitates hotel reservations,
including, but not limited to, online travel companies.
HOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a consideration,
obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations. The term
includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging houses, rooming houses
and apartment houses.
OWNER: Any person or persons, as defined in section
1-3-2 of this Code, having an ownership interest in or conducting the operation
of a hotel or receiving consideration for the rental of a hotel room.
RENT OR RENTAL: The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature, including, but not limited to,
amounts charged for making, servicing or facilitating reservations.
ROOM: Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations. One room
offered for rent with or without an adjoining bath shall be considered as a
single room. (Ord. 2007-42, 7-19-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-4, 2-15-2018)
   B.   Tax Imposed; Rate: A tax is hereby levied and imposed at a rate of four
percent (4%) of the rent charged for the privilege of renting and using a hotel
room within the Village of Woodridge for each twenty four (24) hour period or
any portion thereof for which a daily room charge is made; provided; however,
that the tax shall not be levied and imposed upon any person renting a hotel
room for more than thirty (30) consecutive days in the same hotel or to a
person who works for and lives in the same hotel.
   C.   Liability: The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said
tax shall be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel
room. (Ord. 2007-42, 7-19-2007)
   D.   Tax Collector: The tax levied in this section shall be paid in addition
to any and all other taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner,
manager and operator of every hotel and/or the booking agent making, servicing
or facilitating reservations at such hotels to act as a trustee for and on
account of the Village of Woodridge, and to secure and collect said tax from
the person or persons renting the hotel room. Every person required to collect
the tax levied in this section shall secure said tax at the time that he
collects the price, charge or rent to which it applies. Upon the invoice,
receipt or other statement or memorandum of the rent given to the renter at the
time of payment, the amount due under the tax provided in this section shall be
stated separately on said documents. Said tax shall be paid over to the Finance
Department under procedures prescribed herein.
   E.   Transmittal Of Tax Revenue, Return And Payment: Any person required to
secure and collect the tax levied in this section shall file tax returns
reflecting tax receipts received with respect to each hotel room during each
month upon forms prescribed by the Finance Department. Payment of the privilege
tax shall be made to the Finance Department on or before the twentieth day of
the month succeeding the month the tax was due along with the tax return. (Ord.
2018-4, 2-15-2018)
   F.   Proceeds: The proceeds from the tax collected pursuant to this section,
including penalties, shall be deposited in the Village's General Corporate Fund
and used for such purposes as the Village shall determine.
   G.   Interest, Penalties And Other Provisions: The provisions of section
3-2-10 of this chapter are incorporated herein and made a part of this section.
Late payment, underpayment or nonpayment, credits and refunds, and audits and
requests therefor, regarding any tax due hereunder, shall be subject to the
provisions of section
3-2-10 of this chapter including interest and penalties. Any person violating
any other provision of this section, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by a fine of not more than the maximum amount permitted by section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues to
occur. If a court of competent jurisdiction finds that any person or persons
have wilfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by this section, the Director
of Finance may suspend or revoke all Village licenses held by such person.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village may have relating to the enforcement of this
section, or the collection of the amount of any tax due hereunder. (Ord. 2007-
42, 7-19-2007)
   H.   Books And Records: Every person required to secure and collect the tax
levied by this section shall keep separate books or records of his business so
as to show the rents and occupancies taxable under this section separately from
his transactions not taxable hereunder. If such person fails to keep such
separate books or records, he shall be liable for and subject to a penalty in
an amount equivalent to the tax at the rate designated in subsection B of this
section, upon the entire proceeds from the hotel room rental or making,
servicing or facilitating of the reservation and as provided in section
3-2-10 of this chapter.
Upon not less than seventy two (72) hours' notice to such person and on a
quarterly basis, the Village Director of Finance, or any person acting as his
representative, may enter the premises of the hotel or booking agent for
inspection and examination of books and records in order to effectuate the
proper administration hereof and to assure the enforcement of the collection of
the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or
interfere with the Village Director of Finance or his authorized representative
in the discharge of his duties in the performance hereof. (Ord. 2018-4, 2-15-
2018)
3-2-13: MUNICIPAL RETAILER’S OCCUPATION TAX FOR RECREATIONAL CANNABIS:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the Village at the rate of
three percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of
that business.
   B.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Section 8-11-23, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-23).
   C.   The tax imposed by this section shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue ("IDOR"). Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to IDOR shall constitute a debt owed by
the retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse themselves for their
seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating that tax as an
additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in a single
amount, with any State tax that sellers are required to collect. (Ord. 2022-42,
7-21-2022)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-3-4: License Required
3-3-5: Application For License
3-3-6: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
3-3-7: Examination And Investigation Of Applicant
3-3-8: License Classifications
3-3-9: License Fees
3-3-10: Number Of Licenses
3-3-11: Insurance Required
3-3-12: Certificate Of Conformance
3-3-13: Term Of License; Renewals; Forfeitures
3-3-14: Transfer Of License; Changes In Licensee
3-3-15: Temporary License
3-3-16: Conditions Of License
3-3-17: Building And Location Restrictions
3-3-18: Sanitary Conditions
3-3-19: Attire
3-3-20: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-3-21: Certain Sales Prohibited
3-3-22: Minors
3-3-23: Violation Of Retailers' Occupation Tax Act
3-3-24: Application Of Other Provisions
3-3-25: Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Fines
3-3-26: Records Kept
3-3-27: Violations And Penalties
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
It is the policy of the village to limit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
primarily to the sale in its original package or by restaurants, hotels or
motels. It is not deemed conducive to the promotion of this public policy to
allow the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail for consumption on the premises
where sold as a sole or primary business to be conducted within the village.
Further, it is the policy of the village to limit the purchase, consumption or
possession of alcoholic liquor to persons of the age of twenty one (21) years
or older and to prevent intoxication, disorderly conduct, trespasses, unruly
disturbances at public or private assemblies, and similar conduct that often
results from the purchase, consumption or possession of alcoholic liquor by
persons under the lawful age. (1976 Code §3-1)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases defined in an act entitled "an act relating to alcoholic
liquors" approved January 31, 1934, as amended from time to time, as set forth
generally in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3 et seq., are hereby
incorporated and made a part of this chapter. Unless the context otherwise
requires, the following, as used in this chapter, shall be construed as
follows:
CONTROL OF PREMISES: To be in control of a premises or to have a premises under
one's control shall mean a legal or beneficial ownership, rental, lease or
license. Control may also exist where none of the aforesaid legal relationships
apply, but where an adult is otherwise clearly in charge of and controlling a
particular premises.
DEDICATED EVENT SPACE: A room or rooms or other clearly delineated space within
a retail licensee's premises that is reserved for the exclusive use of party
package invitees during the entirety of a party package. Furniture, stanchions
and ropes, or other room dividers may be used to clearly delineate a dedicated
event space.
DELIVERY OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: The sale, gift or exchange of an alcoholic liquor
from one person to another. Delivery is meant to include providing of any
alcoholic liquor of whatever kind or nature from one person to another.
FALSE IDENTIFICATION: Any document used for identification or proof of age that
has been altered or defaced or that contains false or misleading information or
that contains a name that is not the actual name of the person using it.
IMPAIRMENT: Any diminution or compromise of a person's physical, mental or
perceptual abilities due to the consumption of alcoholic liquor. Impairment
does not require that the blood alcohol content be in excess of any particular
gram of alcohol to milliliters of blood or breath ratio.
LIQUOR CONTROL ACT: The provisions of "an act relating to alcoholic liquors",
approved January 31, 1934, as amended, and as set forth in 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-2 et seq.
MEAL PACKAGE: A food and beverage package, which may or may not include
entertainment, where the service of alcoholic liquor is an accompaniment to the
food, including, but not limited to, a meal, tour, tasting, or any combination
thereof for a fixed price by a retail licensee or any other licensee operating
within a sports facility, restaurant, winery, brewery, or distillery.
MOTEL: Every building or other structure falling within the definition of
"hotel" as defined in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3.25.
OPERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE: Shall include physical control of a motor
vehicle. It shall mean the operation or control of a motor vehicle anywhere in
the village of Woodridge, whether on private property or public property. To be
in physical control, the person need not be actually driving the motor vehicle
and the vehicle need not be running. If there is only one person inside of a
motor vehicle that person shall be presumed to be in physical control,
regardless of the person's location in the vehicle. If there is only one person
in a front seat or front passenger area of a motor vehicle, that person shall
be presumed to be in physical control regardless of the person's location in
the front passenger area. If there are persons in the vehicle, but not in the
front passenger area, the owner of the vehicle or the person to whom permission
was given to operate the vehicle, shall be presumed to be in physical control
of the vehicle.
PARENT: A natural or adoptive parent or a court designated guardian.
PARTY PACKAGE: A private party, function, or event for a specific social or
business occasion, either arranged by invitation or reservation for a defined
number of individuals, that is not open to the general public and where
attendees are served both food and alcohol for a fixed price in a dedicated
event space.
UNDERAGE PERSON: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
VICARIOUS LIABILITY: The liability that is implied as a matter of law even
though the person may not have directly caused an injury to another person.
(Ord. 2015-43, 8-20-2015)
3-3-3: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Mayor To Serve As Commissioner: The mayor shall be the "local liquor
control commissioner" as defined in the liquor control act 1 , paragraph 5/4-
2 and shall be charged with the administration of the liquor control act and of
such ordinances and resolutions related to alcoholic liquor as may be enacted
by the mayor and board of trustees of the village. (1976 Code §3-3)
   B.   Compensation: The compensation otherwise provided for the office of
mayor as set forth in subsection
1-5-1A1 of this code shall be deemed to include compensation to the mayor for
acting in his or her capacity as local liquor control commissioner. (Ord. 88-
51, 10-27-1988)
   C.   Powers And Duties: The local liquor control commissioner shall have the
following powers and duties:
      1.   To grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
for cause, all local licenses issued to persons or entities for premises within
the village. In lieu of suspension or revocation of a local license, the local
liquor control commissioner may instead levy a fine on the licensee. The fine
imposed shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation.
Each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
Not more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) in fines may be imposed against
any licensee during any license year.
      2.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter, at
any time, upon a premises licensed hereunder, to determine whether any of the
provisions of the state statutes or this code, or any rules or regulations
adopted by the village or by the Illinois liquor control commission have been
or are being violated, and at such time to examine the premises of the licensee
in connection therewith.
      3.   To receive complaints from any citizen within the village when any
provision of the state statutes or this chapter have been or are being violated
and act upon such complaints in the manner provided by law.
      4.   To receive local liquor license fees and deposit same to the credit
of the village.
      5.   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a
local license or for the renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served in the manner hereinafter provided, or
any licensee against whom a citation proceeding has been instituted by the
Illinois Liquor Control Commission; to examine, or cause to be examined, the
books and records of any such applicant or licensee; and to hear testimony and
take evidence for his information in the performance of his duties, and for
such other purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of
this State. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner under this subsection, he may authorize his
agent to act on his behalf.
      6.   To order, by issuance of a written order, any licensed premises
closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to
be heard during that period, if the Local Liquor Control Commissioner has
reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular licensed
premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the Village; except, that if
such licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or
businesses on the licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such
other business or businesses.
      7.   To make such reasonable rules and regulations as he may deem
necessary in the performance of his duties. (1976 Code §3-5)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/4-2.
3-3-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail, to give away or to
keep with the intention of selling at retail or giving away, alcoholic liquor
within the Village without having a retail liquor dealer's license. Further, it
shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail or to give away alcoholic
liquor within the Village in violation of the terms of a retail liquor dealer's
license issued by the Village; provided, however, nothing herein contained
shall prevent the possession and transportation of alcoholic liquor for the
lawful, personal use of the possessor, his family and his guests over the age
of twenty one (21) years. (1976 Code §3-6)
3-3-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for a retail dealer's license shall be made to the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, in writing, signed by the applicant if an individual,
signed by each individual partner if a partnership, or signed by the president
and secretary thereof if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit,
and shall contain the following statements and information:
   A.   The applicant's name, mailing address and telephone number.
   B.   The name and address of the applicant's business. (1976 Code §3-7)
   C.   If applicable, the date of the filing of the "assumed name" of the
business with the County Clerks of DuPage and/or Will Counties. (1976 Code §3-
7; 1991 Code)
   D.   In the case applicant is a partnership, the date of the formation of
the partnership, the full name, age, address and telephone number of all
persons with an ownership interest in the partnership, or who have a right to
receive a direct or indirect benefit from the profits of the partnership.
   E.   In the case of a corporation, if an Illinois corporation, the date of
its incorporation, or if a foreign corporation, the state where it was
incorporated and the date of its becoming qualified under the Illinois Business
Corporation Act 1  to transact business in the State of Illinois, and in either
case, a statement of the objects for which the corporation was organized, the
full name, age, address and telephone number of all officers, directors,
managers and shareholders with an aggregate of more than five percent (5%) of
the capital stock of the corporation, or of any persons receiving a direct or
indirect benefit from the profits of the sale of alcoholic liquor in Woodridge.
   F.   The name, age, address and telephone number of the persons who will
manage the business of the applicant in the Village.
   G.   The citizenship of all persons required herein to be identified in the
application, their date and place of birth, and if a naturalized citizen, the
time and place of their naturalization.
   H.   The character of the business of the applicant.
   I.   The length of time that applicant has been in business of that
character.
   J.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at time application
is made.
   K.   The location or description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license, and the following information:
      1.   If a leased premises, a copy of the lease shall be provided and the
lease shall be for a term of sufficient length to encompass the term of the
license sought;
      2.   The name and address of the owner or owners of the premises and the
names and addresses of all the owners of the beneficial interest of any trust
if said premises is held in trust.
   L.   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than described in this application; and
the disposition of such application.
   M.   A statement signed by or on behalf of the applicant and by all
individuals required to be identified therein, that each of them has never been
convicted of a felony or a Class A misdemeanor, and is not disqualified to
receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in the laws of the
State of Illinois or the provisions of this Chapter.
   N.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government, has been issued, and if so, where and when, or if any
such license has been revoked, state the reasons therefor.
   O.   A statement that the applicant and all individuals required to be
identified in the application have not in the past and will not in the future
violate any of the laws of the state of Illinois, or of the United States, or
any ordinance of the village controlling the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in
the conduct of his place of business.
   P.   The applicant's retailers' occupation tax 2  (ROT) registration number
and a statement whether the applicant is delinquent in the payment of the
retailers' occupation tax (sales tax) and if so, the reasons therefor.
   Q.   A statement whether applicant is delinquent under the thirty (30) day
credit law, and if so, the reasons therefor.
   R.   Whether the applicant possesses a current federal wagering and gaming
device stamp and if so, the reasons therefor.
   S.   Whether the applicant, any individual identified in the application or
any other person, directly or indirectly interested in the place of business,
is a public official, and if so, the particulars thereof.
   T.   A statement whether applicant is in violation of the "liquor control
act" 3  paragraph 5/6-6 and if so, the reasons therefor.
   U.   A statement that applicant and all individuals required to be
identified in the application have not sold, delivered or given away alcoholic
liquor in violation of any state law or village ordinance to a person under the
minimum age required to purchase or possess alcoholic liquor.
   V.   Such additional information or identification as the local liquor
control commissioner may deem necessary in order to establish the character of
the applicant. (1976 Code §3-7)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
2 1. See section
  3-2-1 of this title.
3 2. 235 ILCS.
3-3-6: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No local retail liquor dealer's license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of the village.
   B.   A person who is not of fit character and reputation in the community in
which he resides and in the village.
   C.   A person who has not yet attained the age of twenty one (21) years.
   D.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, if determined by the local liquor control commissioner that such person
has not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant public trust.
   F.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of a house of ill
fame.
   G.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   H.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   I.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   J.   A partnership, unless all of the members of such partnership shall be
qualified to obtain a license.
   K.   A corporation or association, if any officer, manager or director
thereof, or any stockholder(s) or member(s) owning in the aggregate more than
five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation or association, would not be
eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than citizenship
or residence in the village.
   L.   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in Illinois or unless it is a
foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois business corporation
act 1  to transact business in Illinois.
   M.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager unless said
manager possesses the same qualifications required of the licensee.
   N.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor, or who
shall have forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation.
   O.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
   P.   Any elected public official, law enforcing officer, the mayor or member
of the village board of trustees, Woodridge officer or employee, or member of
any Woodridge board or commission.
   Q.   Any person not eligible for a state retail liquor dealer's license.
   R.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by
any of the subsections (a)(3) through (a)(10) of section 5/28-1, or as
prescribed by section 5/28-3 of the criminal code of 1961, approved July 28,
1961, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes, as heretofore or hereafter amended, or as
prescribed by a statute replacing any of the aforesaid statutory provisions; or
any person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by an
ordinance of the village 2 .
   S.   A person to whom a federal gaming device stamp or a federal wagering
stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax period.
   T.   A partnership to which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period, or if any of the partners have been issued a federal gaming device
stamp or federal wagering stamp by the federal government for the current tax
period.
   U.   A corporation or association, if any officer, manager or director
thereof, or any stockholder or member owning in the aggregate more than five
percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation has been issued a federal gaming
device stamp or a federal wagering stamp for the current tax period.
   V.   Any premises for which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period.
   W.   Any person who has sold, given away or delivered alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, in violation of the
applicable state laws, or village ordinances, or to any intoxicated person, or
to any person known to him to be a habitual drunkard, insane, mentally ill,
mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment, unless otherwise determined
by the local liquor control commissioner. (1976 Code §3-12)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
2 1. See also subsection
  3-3-16E of this chapter.
3-3-7: EXAMINATION AND INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   Examination Of Applicant: The local liquor control commissioner shall
have the right to examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant
for a retail liquor dealer's license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee
upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been served, or records of any
such applicant or licensee, to hear testimony and take proof for his
information in the performance of his duties, and for such purpose to issue
subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this state. For the purpose
of obtaining any of the information desired by the local liquor control
commissioner under this section, he may authorize his agent to act on his
behalf, as provided by statute. The failure of any applicant to appear at the
time and place fixed by the local liquor control commissioner for his
examination or to produce books and records requested, unless for good cause
shown, shall be deemed to be an admission that the objections or charges are
true and that the applicant is not qualified to receive a license. (1976 Code
§3-9)
   B.   Investigation Of Applicant: No license shall be issued until the
applicant(s) shall have been investigated by the local liquor control
commissioner and a report filed in the records of said commissioner approving
the new applicant(s). New applicant(s) shall not be licensed until said new
applicant(s) and managers, if any, have been fingerprinted and photographed by
the village chief of police and record searches made of the files of the
sheriffs of DuPage and/or Will Counties, the Illinois bureau of investigations,
the federal bureau of investigation and any other record agency that the chief
of police shall deem necessary. A copy of the fingerprints and photographs
shall be retained in the files of the chief of police, and a sworn affidavit
from the chief of police clearing the applicant(s) shall be filed with the
local liquor control commissioner. (1976 Code §3-9; amd. 1991 Code)
3-3-8: LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS:
The local liquor control commissioner shall have the right to grant retail
liquor dealer's licenses for the selling at retail of alcoholic liquor. Such
license shall be divided into the following classes and none other:
CLASS A-1 which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold when the primary business conducted upon
said premises is that of a restaurant.
CLASS A-3 which shall permit the retail sale of beer and wine for consumption
on the premises when the primary business conducted upon said premises is that
of a restaurant.
CLASS A-3NB which shall permit the retail sale of beer and wine for consumption
on the premises when the business conducted upon said premises is that of a
restaurant. Beer and wine shall be served only during the period when patrons
of the licensee are offered a complete meal. Beer and wine shall be served only
to patrons ordering a meal. Service of beer and wine shall not be made directly
to any patron from any type of service counter, but, rather, shall be made by
waiters, waitresses, or employees of the licensee to tables or booths where
meals are being served only. Bars of any type are prohibited. The service of
beer or wine in areas where patrons are waiting to be seated is prohibited.
CLASS A-4 which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises when the business conducted upon said premises is
that of a coffeehouse. Alcoholic liquor other than beer and wine shall be
served only when mixed with coffee in a single container. Bars of any type are
prohibited. The service of alcoholic liquor in areas where patrons are waiting
to be seated at a table or booth is prohibited.
CLASS B-1 which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in sealed
packages but not for consumption on the premises where sold. Holders of class
B-1 licenses shall be permitted to conduct alcoholic liquor sampling or tasting
promotions upon the licensed premises; provided, that no charge shall be made
therefor.
CLASS B-2 which shall permit the retail sale of beer and wine in sealed
packages but not for consumption on the premises where sold. Holders of class
B-2 licenses shall be permitted to conduct beer or wine sampling or tasting
promotions upon the licensed premises; provided, that no charge shall be made
therefor.
CLASS B-3 which shall permit the retail sale of wine in sealed packages but not
for consumption on the premises where sold. Holders of class B-3 licenses shall
be permitted to conduct wine sampling or tasting upon the licensed premises;
provided that no charge shall be made therefor. Not more than six (6) ounces of
wine may be served to any one person for consumption on the premises on any
given day and such six (6) ounces shall be comprised of not less than six (6)
different wines, and no glass shall contain more than one ounce of wine.
CLASS C-1 which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold when the primary business conducted upon
said premises is that of a restaurant, and shall also permit the retail sale of
alcohol in sealed packages but not for consumption on the premises where sold.
CLASS C-2 which shall permit the retail sale of beer and wine for consumption
on the premises where sold when the primary business conducted upon said
premises is that of a restaurant, which shall also permit the retail sale of
beer and wine in sealed packages but not for consumption on the premises where
sold. (Ord. 2017-15, 4-6-2017)
CLASS C-3 which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold when the primary business conducted upon
said premises is that of a restaurant and shall also permit the retail sale of
beer in sealed packages for consumption off premises and the retail sale of
beer tastings for consumption on the premises where sold. Holders of Class C-
3 licenses shall be permitted to manufacture and store the manufactured beer on
the licensed premises, to operate a taproom to conduct tastings of beer, and
make sales of beer manufactured on the premises in sealed casks, kegs, bottles,
growlers, or other such properly sealed containers as permitted by law. The
Class C-3 license is subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Tastings are limited to the craft beer manufactured on the premises
under this classification and shall be permitted during the authorized hours of
business under the following terms:
      1.   A price may be set for such tastings; and
      2.   All applicable taxes, including Sales Tax shall be collected and
paid on all revenue realized from tastings.
   B.   Licensee shall maintain accurate records as to the total gallonage of
beer manufactured on the premises and the total gallonage of beer manufactured
on the premises and sold for consumption off premises. Licensee shall produce
said records to the Village of Woodridge upon request.
   C.   Compliance with all terms and conditions set forth in the definition of
this class.
   D.   Compliance with and adherence to any and all applicable Federal, State
and local laws and regulations. (Ord. 2018-19, 6-28-2018)
CLASS D-1 which shall be a twenty four (24) hour permit allowing the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption only on the premises where sold to be
issued to a regularly organized, not for profit or religious organization, or
other similar group organized for some purpose or object, other than the sale
or consumption of alcoholic beverages. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner
shall have the authority to waive the Class D-1 license fee, in his or her
discretion.
CLASS D-2 which shall be a twenty four (24) hour permit allowing the retail
sale of such alcoholic liquor, as may be approved by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, for consumption only on the premises where sold, to be issued for
picnics, carnivals, celebrations or other similar functions. The Local Liquor
Control Commissioner may impose such other restrictions on said license as he
may deem necessary.
CLASS D-3 which shall be valid only for the period beginning on Thanksgiving
Day and ending on December 31 in any given calendar year, permitting only the
sale of alcoholic liquor as part of gift packages, but not for consumption on
the premises. The Class D-3 license is subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   Class D-3 licenses shall be available solely to Class A-1 licensed
premises located at 1001 W. 75th Street, Suite 153 and/or 1001 W. 75th Street,
Suite 157.
   B.   Gift packages must be available as a single unit and contain alcoholic
beverage(s) and gift card(s). In addition other nonalcoholic items may be
included.
   C.   All gift card(s) must be redeemable solely with respect to the
principal business being conducted at the A-1 licensed premises.
   D.   All gift packages must be sold at a package price. The package price
may be less than the sum of the individual items' retail prices.
   E.   Licensee accounting records must reflect value being paid for all items
in gift packages.
   F.   No licensee shall give away alcoholic liquor or include alcoholic
liquor in gift packages at no cost to promote the sale of a gift package.
   G.   No licensee shall advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off
licensed premises any of the practices prohibited in subsection F of this
section, including, but not limited to, advertisements using the words "free"
or "complimentary" with alcoholic liquor.
CLASS E-1 which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold when the primary business conducted upon
said premises is that of a recreational facility. For the purposes of this
class license, a "recreational facility" shall be defined as a racquetball
club, tennis club, health club, sports complex or bowling alley located in the
B-1 or B-2 Business District, wherein at least ninety percent (90%) of the
commercial floor area is devoted to recreational purposes other than the sale
or consumption of alcoholic liquor. No live entertainment shall be permitted at
any recreational facility holding a Class E-1 license. (Ord. 2017-15, 4-6-2017)
CLASS E-2 which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold when the primary business conducted upon
said premises is that of a recreational establishment. For the purposes of this
class license, a "recreation establishment" shall be defined as a building or
facility designed and equipped for the conduct of sports, leisure time
activities and other recreation activities in the B-1 or B-2 Zoning District.
The E-2 license is applicable to all other recreation activities not previously
covered under the E-1 liquor license classification. (Ord. 2018-45, 11-15-2018)
CLASS E-3 which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold when the primary business conducted upon
said premises is that of an arts studio where classes are offered to the
general public on a periodic basis. The consumption of alcoholic liquor is
restricted to the licensed premises and limited to registered patrons assembled
on the premises for the purpose of attending an art, crafts, or other class
offered by the arts studio while the licensee is conducting such classes. (Ord.
2020-34, 11-24-2020)
CLASS F-1 which shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor in connection with an
off site catering business operating within the Village. For purposes of this
classification, an "off site catering business" is one which serves food at
locations not owned or leased by such catering business. Alcoholic liquor shall
only be sold or delivered by the licensee in connection with the catering of
foods. In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a Class F-
1 license shall only be issued to persons who can demonstrate that they are
operating a bona fide catering business. No Class F-1 license shall serve
alcoholic liquor at a single location for more than three (3) consecutive
twenty four (24) hour periods.
CLASS G-1 which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises when the business conducted upon said premises is
that of a banquet facility. No such license may be granted to or retained by
any establishment in which the facilities for food preparation and service are
not primarily those of a banquet facility. No such license may be granted to a
banquet facility having a gross floor area of less than thirty thousand
(30,000) square feet. Alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises may be
distributed in bars, lounges, or banquet halls located in the same facility.
There shall not be a separate outside entrance directly into any bar or lounge.
CLASS H-1 which shall permit the retail sale of beer in sealed packages for
consumption off premises and the retail sale of beer tastings, premixed
cocktails, and wine for consumption on the premises where sold. Holders of
Class H-1 licenses shall be permitted to manufacture and store the manufactured
beer on the licensed premises, to operate a taproom to conduct tastings of
beer, host educational classes and contests, and make sales of beer
manufactured on the premises in sealed casks, kegs, bottles, growlers, or other
such properly sealed containers as permitted by law. The Class H-1 license is
subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Tastings shall be permitted during the authorized hours of business
under the following terms:
      1.   That portion of the licensed premises dedicated to offering tastings
shall be segregated from the remainder of the premises;
      2.   A price may be set for such tastings;
      3.   All applicable taxes, including sales tax shall be collected and
paid on all revenue realized from tastings.
   B.   Licensee shall maintain accurate records as to the total gallonage of
beer manufactured on the premises and the total gallonage of beer manufactured
on the premises and sold for consumption off premises. Licensee shall produce
said records to the Village of Woodridge upon request.
   C.   Patrons under twenty one (21) years of age shall be allowed on the
premises when accompanied by a person twenty one (21) years of age or older;
except, however, classes, seminars, and contests on alcoholic related subjects
shall only be open to patrons twenty one (21) years and older. Samples provided
for educational purposes or contests must not exceed a total of forty eight
(48) ounces in any one day per person.
   D.   Compliance with all terms and conditions set forth in the definition of
this class.
   E.   Compliance with and adherence to any and all applicable Federal, State
and local laws and regulations. (Ord. 2017-15, 4-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-14, 6-
3-2021)
CLASS I-1 which shall permit the retail sale of wine in sealed packages for
consumption off premises and the retail sale of wine tastings for consumption
on the premises where sold where the primary business is that of a winery.
Holders of Class I-1 licenses shall be permitted to manufacture and store the
manufactured wine on the licensed premises, to operate a tasting room to
conduct tastings of wine and make sales of wine manufactured on the premises in
sealed bottles or other such properly sealed containers. The Class I-1 license
is subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Tastings are limited to the wine manufactured on the premises under
this classification and shall be permitted during the authorized hours of
business under the following terms:
      1.   That portion of the licensed premises dedicated to offering tastings
shall be segregated from the remainder of the premises;
      2.   A price may be set for such tastings;
      3.   All applicable taxes, including Sales Tax shall be collected and
paid on all revenue realized from tastings.
   B.   Licensee shall maintain accurate records as to the total gallonage of
wine manufactured on the premises and the total gallonage of wine manufactured
on the premises and sold for consumption off-premises. Licensee shall produce
said records to the Village of Woodridge upon request.
   C.   Patrons under twenty one (21) years of age shall be allowed on the
premises when accompanied by a person twenty one (21) years of age or older.
   D.   Compliance with all terms and conditions set forth in the definition of
this class.
   E.   Compliance with and adherence to any and all applicable Federal, State
and local laws and regulations, including, but not limited to procurement of
all required Federal and State licenses and permits. (Ord. 2017-33, 7-20-2017)
CLASS M-2 which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold when the primary business conducted upon
said premises is that of a motion picture theater. The license holder may
dispense alcoholic liquor for consumption on premises and offer food items from
a fixed concession counter during all hours in which alcoholic liquors are
offered for sale. The following regulations further apply to any Class M-
2 license holder:
   A.   Possession and consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under the
age of twenty one (21) is prohibited.
   B.   Patrons purchasing or possessing alcoholic liquor must be fitted with
an identifiable wristband after evidencing they are the age of twenty one (21)
or older.
   C.   The containers in which alcoholic liquors are served must be of a
different color, size and design than those in which nonalcoholic beverages are
served.
   D.   No more than two (2) alcoholic liquor drinks may be sold to any patron
during any one transaction. This provision shall not prohibit patrons from
purchasing alcoholic beverages for other guests that are physically present at
the point of sale and present identification confirming they are age twenty one
(21) or older.
   E.   Persons under the age of twenty one (21) shall be permitted on the
licensed premises provided the premises is open for the display of motion
pictures and service of food and non- alcoholic beverages.
   F.   Alcoholic liquors may only be consumed within the theater premises as
delineated and identified on an approved floor plan and signage will be posted
providing notice that patrons may not exit the theater premises with any
alcoholic liquors.
   G.   All employees engaged in the sale and service of alcoholic liquors
shall be BASSET certified.
   H.   Class M-2 licensed premises shall not be open to the public during any
time in which theater auditoriums are not utilized for the exhibition of motion
pictures as permitted in accordance with the hours as defined in subsection
3-3-16B1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2019-43, 9-19-2019)
CLASS VG (video gaming), which is a supplemental license only, permits video
gaming only in a licensed establishment (as defined in chapter 4, article E of
this title) otherwise qualified to hold a video gaming license. Class VG
licenses shall only be issued to holders of Class A-1, A-3, or E-1 liquor
licenses.
A complete and accurate application to the Village for the issuance of a video
gaming license shall be deemed an application for the issuance of a Class VG
supplemental license.
Class VG licenses may only be issued to qualified licensed establishments which
have continuously operated while holding a Class A-1, A-3, or E-1 liquor
license for a period of at least one year prior to the date of application for
a Class VG license. A new establishment must meet the one (1)-year continuous
operation requirements unless the applicant is:
   A.   The current majority owner of an existing establishment at another
location in Woodridge for a period of at least twelve (12) months;
   B.   The existing Woodridge-based, licensed, establishment has been
operational for at least twelve (12) months;
   C.   The existing Woodridge-based, licensed, establishment has no gaming or
liquor violations; and
   D.   The Woodridge-based, licensed, establishment has been issued a Class VG
license at the existing, operating establishment.
In the event that a Class VG licensed establishment sells said establishment to
another entity, the new establishment will be considered for licensure
following the approval and submittal of a valid State license.
A new establishment must meet the twelve (12) month continuous operation
requirement set forth above unless the applicant:
   A.   Has an owner with an ownership interest of at least fifty percent (50%)
in the new proposed establishment, who also has an ownership interest of at
least fifty percent (50%) in an existing Woodridge-based, licensed,
establishment; and
   B.   The new establishment is at a different physical location that the
existing establishment, including a different address than said existing
establishment.
Class VG licenses shall be issued to qualified licensed establishments on a
first come basis, based on the date and time of filing a complete and accurate
application. In the event any applications are simultaneously filed on the same
date and at the same time, priority shall be given based on years of holding a
liquor license (most to least).
Class VG licenses shall have the same hours of operation as provided for the
underlying liquor license as set forth in subsection
3-3-16  B. of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-15, 4-6-2017; amd. Ord. 2020-15, 8-6-
2020; Ord. 2021-15, 6-3-2021)
3-3-9: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: The fees for the various classes of licenses
authorized in this chapter shall be as follows:
License Initial License Fee Annual Renewal Fee
License Initial License Fee Annual Renewal Fee
A-1     $2,600.00           $2,600.00
A-3     2,000.00            2,000.00
A-3NB   2,000.00            2,000.00
A-4     2,000.00            2,000.00
B-1     2,000.00            2,000.00
B-2     1,400.00            1,400.00
B-3     2,000.00            2,000.00
C-1     5,000.00            5,000.00
C-2     3,800.00            3,800.00
C-3     3,100.00            3,100.00
D-1     50.00               Daily
D-2     50.00               Daily
D-3     200.00              200.00
E-1     2,600.00            2,600.00
E-2     2,600.00            2,600.00
E-3     2,000.00            2,000.00
F-1     300.00              300.00
G-1     2,600.00            2,600.00
H-1     2,000.00            2,000.00
I-1     2,000.00            2,000.00
M-2     2,600.00            2,600.00
VG      50.00               50.00
 
   B.   Proration Of License Fee: When an application is made for a license
after the expiration of six (6) calendar months of the current license year,
the license fee shall be prorated, and the license fee paid shall be one-half
(1/2) of the license fee provided for in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Disposition Of Fees: At the time application is made to the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner for the original issuance or renewal of a license
of any class, the applicant shall pay to the Village the fee provided in
subsection A of this section for the class of license for which the application
is filed. In the event the license applied for is issued or renewed, the fee
shall be applied to the license; however, in the event the license applied for
is denied, the fee, except for a processing charge of two hundred dollars
($200.00), shall be returned to the applicant, except for a Class D-1 or D-
2 license. In the event a Class D-1 or D-2 license is denied, then the entire
fee paid with the application shall be returned to the applicant.
   D.   Forfeiture Of License Fee: Whenever any license hereunder has been
revoked as provided for in this chapter, the licensee shall incur a forfeiture
of all monies that have been paid for said license. (1976 Code §3-15) (Ord.
2010-60, 11-18-2010; amd. Ord. 2015-35, 6-4-2015; Ord. 2015-52, 10-15-2015;
Ord. 2017-15, 4-6-2017; Ord. 2017-33, 7-20-2017; Ord. 2018-19, 6-28-2018; Ord.
2018-45, 11-15-2018; Ord. 2019-38, 8-15-2019; Ord. 2019-43, 9-19-2019; Ord.
2020-8, 3-5-2020)
3-3-10: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The number of liquor licenses shall not exceed the following:
Class A-1                    18
Class A-3                    4
Class B-1                    8
Class B-2                    0
Class B-3                    0
Class C-3                    1
Class D-3                    0
Class E-1                    1
Class E-2                    0
Class E-3                    1
Class F-1                    1
Class G-1                    1
Class H-1                    1
Class I-1                    1
Class VG                     12
Class A-3NB, A-4, C-1 or C-2 None authorized at this time
 
(Ord. 2019-28, 5-2-2019; amd. Ord. 2019-38, 8-15-2019; Ord. 2019-40, 9-5-2019;
Ord. 2020-1, 1-16-2020; Ord. 2020-9, 3-5-2020; Ord. 2020-27, 9-17-2020; Ord.
2020-28, 9-17-2020; Ord. 2021-16, 6-3-2021; Ord. 2021-17, 6-3-2021; Ord. 2022-
62, 10-20-2022; Ord. 2023-35, 10-19-2023; Ord. 2024-23, 4-4-2024; Ord. 2024-26,
4-18-2024; Ord. 2024-32, 5-16-2024; Ord. 2024-39, 6-20-2024)
3-3-11: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   No license shall be granted to any applicant until such applicant shall
furnish evidence satisfactory to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner that
such applicant is covered by a policy of liquor liability insurance, and in the
event he is not the owner of the premises described in said application, that
he has a lawful right to possession of the same until the expiration of the
term of the license for which application is made.
   B.   Each licensee shall furnish the Local Liquor Control Commissioner with
a certificate of such insurance and in the event of cancellation, the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner shall be notified immediately of such cancellation.
(1976 Code §3-11)
3-3-12: CERTIFICATE OF CONFORMANCE:
At the time of the application for a license, the applicant shall submit a
certification from the DuPage and/or Will County Boards of Health and from the
Village Community Development Department that the proposed licensed premises
are in conformity with all of the regulations and ordinances of the Village and
of the Counties of DuPage and/or Will. (1976 Code §3-10; amd. 1991 Code; Ord.
2010-29, 5-20-2010)
3-3-13: TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWALS; FORFEITURES:
   A.   Term Of License: All licenses, except Class D-1 or D-2 licenses, shall
be valid for a period not to exceed one year after issuance, unless sooner
terminated, revoked or suspended as provided in this chapter; and all licenses
shall terminate on April 30 next following their issuance. (1976 Code §3-16)
   B.   Renewal Of License: Any licensee may apply for renewal of a license at
the expiration thereof; provided, that he is then qualified to receive a
license and the premises for which such renewal license is sought is suitable
for such purpose; provided, further, that the renewal privilege herein provided
for shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent
the Mayor and Board of Trustees from decreasing the number of licenses to be
issued within the Village or to be issued within the Village within any class.
(1976 Code §3-18)
   C.   Cessation Of Business; Forfeiture Of License: Any licensee who ceases
to do business or closes his place of business for a period of more than thirty
(30) successive days shall be subject to having his license declared forfeited
and lapsed by order of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. (1976 Code §3-36)
3-3-14: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; CHANGES IN LICENSEE:
   A.   Transfer Of License: A license shall be a purely personal privilege,
good for a period of not to exceed one year after issuance, unless sooner
revoked, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated. Such license shall cease upon the death of the licensee and shall
not descend by the laws of testate or intestate succession; provided, that
executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee; and the
trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in
part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of sale of alcoholic liquor
under the order of the appropriate court and may exercise the privileges of the
deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent or
such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license but no
longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such
licensee. (1976 Code §3-19)
   B.   Changes In Licensee:
      1.   Any changes in partnership, officers, directors, or persons holding
directly or beneficially more than five percent (5%) of the stock or ownership
interest, or managers of establishments licensed under this chapter, shall be
reported in writing to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner within ten (10)
days of the change. All new personnel shall meet all of the standards of this
chapter and must otherwise qualify to hold a liquor license. In addition, an
investigation fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) must be submitted. (1976
Code §3-22; amd. Ord. 2000-03, 1-27-2000)
      2.   When a license has been issued for a partnership and a change of
ownership occurs resulting in a partnership interest by one who is not eligible
to hold a liquor license, said license shall terminate.
      3.   When a license has been issued to a corporation and a change takes
place in officers, directors, managers or shareholders of more than five
percent (5%) of the stock resulting in the holding of such office, position or
such shares of stock by one who is not eligible for a license, said license
shall terminate.
      4.   When a license has been issued to an individual who is no longer
eligible for a license, said license shall terminate. (1976 Code §3-22)
3-3-15: TEMPORARY LICENSE:
Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, and provided
that an applicant has otherwise fully complied with the requirements of this
chapter and is eligible to receive a license, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may issue a temporary liquor license, pending a receipt of the
results of the fingerprint(s) record search for said applicant.
A temporary liquor license shall be valid for a period of two (2) months,
unless sooner terminated, as hereinafter provided.
A temporary liquor license shall terminate upon the first of the following to
occur:
   A.   The expiration of two (2) months after the issuance of such temporary
liquor license;
   B.   The receipt of satisfactory results with respect to the fingerprint(s)
record search for the applicant and the issuance of the license otherwise
provided for by this chapter;
   C.   The receipt of results with respect to the fingerprint(s) record search
for the applicant which would give the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
grounds not to issue the license otherwise provided for by this chapter.
In the event a temporary liquor license terminates as a result of subsection C
of this section, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall refund one-half
(1/2) of the license fee paid to the Village, in accordance with section
3-3-9 of this chapter.
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may issue no more than two (2) temporary
liquor licenses with respect to a particular application. (1976 Code §3-16.1)
3-3-16: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Display Of License: All retail liquor dealer's licenses issued in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter shall be displayed in a
prominent place in the licensed establishment. (1976 Code §3-21)
   B.   Hours Of Sale:
      1.   No person holding a Class A-1, D-3, E-1, E-2, G-1, or M-2 license
issued pursuant to this chapter shall sell, or permit to be sold, offered for
sale, given away or delivered, any alcoholic liquor between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.; except, that no such sale
shall be made between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on
Saturday, and no such sale shall be made between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Sunday. All patrons and customers shall leave the
premises not later than fifteen (15) minutes following the closing hours herein
established; except, that on New Year's Eve in any given year, Class A-1, D-3,
E-1, E-2, or G-1 license holders shall be permitted to remain open to sell
alcoholic liquor for one additional hour. (Ord. 2019-43, 9-19-2019)
      2.   No person holding a Class A-3, A-3NB, A-4, B-1, B-2, B-3, C-1, C-2,
C-3, D-1, D-2, E-3, F-1, H-1, or I-1 license, issued pursuant to this chapter,
shall sell, or permit to be sold, offered for sale, given away or delivered any
alcoholic liquor between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M.; except no such sale shall be made between two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Sunday. All patrons and customers shall leave
the premises not later than fifteen (15) minutes following the closing hours
herein established; except, that on New Year's Eve in any given year, holders
of Class A-3, C-1, C-2, C-3, D-1, D-2, E-3, F-1, H-1 and I-1 licenses shall be
permitted to remain open to sell alcoholic liquor for one additional hour.
(Ord. 2019-38, 8-15-2019)
      3.   In the case of restaurants, hotels, motels, recreational facilities
and licensees selling packaged liquors, where the sale of alcoholic liquor is
conducted on premises which are utilized primarily for other retail sale
activities, such establishments may be kept open for business after the hours
of sale set forth herein, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold, offered for
sale, given away, delivered or consumed after said closing hours, and no person
shall be permitted to remain in or upon that portion of the premises used for
the sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor. (Ord. 2008-61, 12-18-2008)
   C.   Refilling Original Packages: No person licensed under this chapter,
except those holding a Class C-3 or H-1 license, shall fill or refill, in whole
or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any other
kind or quality of alcoholic liquor; and it shall be unlawful for any person to
have in his possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other
containers of alcoholic liquor, except in original packages. (Ord. 2018-19, 6-
28-2018)
   D.   Solicitation: It shall be unlawful for any licensee, his manager or
other person in charge of any licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is sold
or offered for sale for consumption thereon to engage, employ or permit the
engagement or employment of any person nor shall any person be permitted to
remain on said premises, who shall solicit any patron or customer thereof to
purchase alcoholic or nonalcoholic liquor for said person, or any other person
therein; nor shall any person, whether employee, entertainer or otherwise,
solicit any patron or customer therein to purchase alcoholic or nonalcoholic
liquor for said person or any other person therein; provided, however, that
nothing herein contained shall prohibit any adult manager, bartender, waiter or
waitress who shall be regularly employed therein from accepting and serving the
order of a patron or customer in the regular course of employment as such
manager, bartender, waiter or waitress. (1976 Code §3-34)
   E.   Gambling: It shall be unlawful to permit any gambling on any premises
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor. (1976 Code §3-32)
   F.   Lewdness: It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder to permit or
allow any lewd person to remain in and about any such premises, or to allow any
soliciting or prostitution practices or lewdness. (1976 Code §3-38)
   G.   Intoxication, Disorderliness: It shall be unlawful for any licensee,
individually or through his agents or employees, to allow intoxicated persons
to loiter on or about that part of the premises described in the license, which
part is in use by or in view of the general public, or permit any conduct which
shall tend to disturb the people or quiet of the neighborhood or the premises.
(1976 Code §3-39)
   H.   Peddling Liquor: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
Village. (1976 Code §3-53)
   I.   BYOB (Bring Your Own Bottle) Prohibited In Licensed Premises: It is
unlawful for any licensee, or his or her agent or employee, to suffer or permit
any person to consume any alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises that was
not purchased from the licensee. (Ord. 2013-40, 8-8-2013)
   J.   Video Gaming Restricted To Certain Licensed Premises Only:
Notwithstanding any provision of chapter 4, article E of this title or any
other provisions of this Code to the contrary, no liquor licensee shall be
eligible to engage in video gaming or be issued a video gaming license, unless
said licensee is the holder of a Class A-1, A-3, or E-1 liquor license and has
been issued a supplemental Class VG liquor license and unless meals shall be
actually and regularly prepared on the premises and served in accordance with
either a general or specialized menu. Adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining
room equipment shall be provided and maintained. The licensed premises shall
have a minimum "total floor area" of two thousand (2,000) square feet as that
term is defined in chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 2016-28, 7-21-2016)
3-3-17: BUILDING AND LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Location Restrictions: No license shall be issued for the sale at
retail of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church,
school other than an institution of higher learning, hospital, home for aged or
indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children or any military or
naval station; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food
shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal
business carried on, if such place of business so exempted shall have been
established for such purposes prior to the taking effect of this chapter; nor
to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on
premises within one hundred feet (100') of any church or school where such
church or school has been established within such one hundred feet (100') since
the issuance of the original license. In the case of a church, the distance of
one hundred feet (100') shall be measured to the nearest part of any building
used for worship services or educational programs and not to property
boundaries.
Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a church
or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales are
limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquors. (1976 Code §3-26)
   B.   Stores Selling School Supplies: No license shall be issued to any
person for the sale of any alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of
business where the majority of customers are minors of school age, or where the
principal business transacted consists of schoolbooks, school supplies, food,
lunches or drinks for such minors. (1976 Code §3-27)
   C.   Multiple Locations: Where two (2) or more locations, places or premises
are under the same roof or at one street address, a separate local retail
liquor dealer's license shall be obtained for each such location, place or
premises; provided, that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to
prevent any hotel or motel operator licensed under the provisions of this
chapter from serving alcoholic liquor to his registered guests in any room or
part of his hotel or motel if such liquor so served shall be kept in and served
from a licensed location, place or premises in said hotel or motel. (1976 Code
§3-37)
   D.   Change Of Location: All licenses issued hereunder shall embrace only
one place of business. A license issued hereunder shall permit the sale of
alcoholic liquor only on the premises described in the application and license.
A license may be transferred upon the approval of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner from one location or premises to another only when and upon the
written permit to make such change is issued by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner and upon the payment of two hundred dollars ($200.00). No change
of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new location is in
compliance with the provisions and regulations of this chapter. (1976 Code §3-
20)
   E.   Village Hall; Sale Or Delivery Permitted: Pursuant to the authority
granted by section 6-15 of the Liquor Control Act, alcoholic liquor may be sold
or delivered in the Village Hall facility, located at Five Plaza Drive,
Woodridge, Illinois. (Ord. 98-58, 11-12-1998)
   F.   Outdoor Alcohol Service: Subject to the approval (in such event, such
approval shall be noted on the face of the license) of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, the sale, service and consumption of alcoholic liquor in an
outdoor seating area may be permitted on or adjacent to premises licensed to
sell alcoholic liquor under Class A-1, A-3, A-3NB, A-4, C-3, and H-1 licenses,
subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The outdoor seating area is enclosed with a fence, wall, landscaping
or similar barrier with a minimum height of three feet (3'); and
      2.   The outdoor seating area is owned or leased by the licensee; and
      3.   If applicable, the outdoor seating area is included as part of the
regular food service business located on the licensed premises and food is
offered in such areas; and
      4.   Access to the outdoor seating area shall be limited through the
licensed premises and, if not practical, then through monitored entrances that
are controlled by employees and reasonable fencing of the licensed premises
during all operating hours and/or while alcohol is being served; and
      5.   That all such sales of alcoholic liquor shall in all respects be in
conformance with the class of license held. (Ord. 2020-33, 10-15-2020)
3-3-18: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or
for the storage of such liquor for sale, shall be kept in full compliance with
the ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or
sale of food for human consumption 1 . (1976 Code §3-24)
   B.   Employees: It shall be unlawful to employ in the premises used for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a
carrier of, any contagious, infectious or venereal disease; and it shall be
unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or is a carrier of any such
disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the
handling, preparation or distribution of such liquor. (1976 Code §3-25)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 6 of this title.
3-3-19: ATTIRE:
   A.   Every licensee and every employee, associate, agent, member, officer,
representative or independent contractor of such licensee, whether compensated
or not, shall be properly and decently attired during the course of the sale,
distribution, service, pouring, mixing, drawing, dispensation or delivery of
alcoholic liquors of every description, either independently or in conjunction
with food or foodstuffs, across a bar or at a table. Topless or similar
costumes are prohibited.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any employee, associate,
agent, member, officer, representative or independent contractor of such
licensee, whether compensated or not, at any time on the premises or in the
course of the conduct of the business to which the license provided under this
chapter applies, to:
      1.   Expose his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft,
perineum, anal region or pubic hair region. (1976 Code §3-43)
      2.   Expose any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region. (1976 Code §3-43; amd. 1991 Code)
      3.   Expose any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person
described in subsection A or B of this section to violate any of the provisions
hereof. (1976 Code §3-43)
3-3-20: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Gratuities For Public Officials: No commissioner, official or employee
of the Village shall solicit or accept any gift, gratuity, emolument or
employment from any person or agent of any person holding a Village liquor
license and the holder of any liquor license is hereby forbidden to give or
offer to give any commissioner, official or employee of the Village any gift,
gratuity, emolument or employment. It shall be unlawful for any person to
violate any provision of this subsection and the license of any such person
who, himself or through an agent, violates this subsection shall be revoked
forthwith. (1976 Code §3-40; amd. Ord. 2001-14, 4-26-2001)
   B.   Consumption Of Liquor In Public: It shall be unlawful for any person to
consume any "alcoholic liquor", as defined by law, on any public way in the
Village or in or about any motor vehicle upon a public way in the Village.
(1976 Code §3-41)
   C.   Open Bottle Law: No person shall transport, carry, possess or have any
alcoholic liquor in or upon or about any motor vehicle upon a public way in the
Village, except in the original package and with the seal unbroken. (1976 Code
§3-42)
   D.   Unpurchased Alcohol On Licensed Premises: It shall be unlawful for any
person to bring in alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises of a liquor
license holder that was not purchased from that liquor license holder. (Ord.
2013-40, 8-8-2013)
3-3-21: CERTAIN SALES PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee selling alcoholic beverages to be
served and consumed on the licensed premises to engage in any of the following
enumerated practices:
      1.   Deliver more than two (2) drinks to one (1) person at one time.
      2.   Sell, offer or deliver to any person an unlimited number of drinks
during any set period of time for a fixed price, except at private functions
not open to the public.
      3.   Increase the volume of alcoholic beverages contained in a drink
without increasing proportionately the price charged for such drink.
      4.   Encourage or permit on the licensed premises any game or contest
which involves drinking or the awarding of drinks as prizes.
      5.   Advertise or promote in any way, whether within or without the
licensed premises, any of the above practices.
   B.   The prohibited practices contained in the above provisions shall not
prohibit the licensee from:
      1.   Offering free food or entertainment at any time;
      2.   Including drinks as part of a meal package;
      3.   Free wine tastings;
      4.   Offering room services to registered guests in hotels licensed for
such service;
      5.   Selling or offering for sale drinks at a discount to the public
provided that:
         a.   Discounted drinks can be offered for up to four (4) hours per
day.
         b.   Discounted drinks cannot be offered for more than fifteen (15)
hours per week.
         c.   Drinks cannot be discounted between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
the closing hour of the licensed premises.
         d.   The price of the drink cannot change during the discounted drink
period.
         e.   Notice of the discount must be posted on the licensed premises'
website seven (7) days prior to the offering of discounted drinks;
      6.   Selling or offering for sale drinks at a discount during private
functions not open to the public;
      7.   Selling or offering for sale a party package only if the retail
licensee:
         a.   Offers food in the dedicated event space.
         b.   Limits the party package to no more than three (3) hours.
         c.   Distributes wristbands, lanyards, shirts, or any other such
wearable items to identify party package attendees so the attendees may be
granted access to the dedicated event space.
         d.   Excludes individuals not participating in the party package from
the dedicated event space;
      8.   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a hotel package;
      9.   Negotiating drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a hotel package;
      10.   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent, including, but not limited to,
buckets of bottled beer), carafes, or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are
customarily sold in such manner, or sell bottles of spirits; or
      11.   Advertising events permitted under this section.
   C.   No licensee or officer, associated member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years 1 , or to any intoxicated person,
or to any person known by him to be a habitual drunkard, insane, mentally ill,
mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. (Ord. 2017-50, 9-21-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  3-3-22G of this chapter for additional penalty.
3-3-22: MINORS 1 :
   A.   Possession, Consumption Or Sale To Prohibited:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall consume,
purchase or accept delivery of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his
or her possession within the Village; provided, the possession and dispensing
or consumption of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or
ceremony, the consumption by a person under the age of twenty one (21) under
direct supervision and approval of the parent(s) or guardian(s) of such
underage person in the privacy of the parent's or guardian's home, or the
possession or delivery of alcoholic liquors in pursuance of a person's
employment by a licensee under this chapter as allowed in subsection E of this
section is not prohibited.
      2.   No person after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor
shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the
age of twenty one (21) years, except as allowed under this subsection A. (1976
Code §3-45)
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or negligently
permit, on premises under his or her control, the consumption of alcoholic
liquor by an underage person unless such possession and/or consumption is
otherwise permitted under subsection A1 of this section. This section shall
apply to residential and commercial premises.
      4.   Any person found guilty of violating subsection A2 or A3 of this
section shall be fined in the mandatory amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 94-70, 9-22-1994)
   B.   Presence On Licensed Premises: It shall be unlawful for any holder of a
liquor license, or his agent or employee, to suffer or permit any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years to be or remain in any room or compartment
adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the room or place where such licensed
premises is located; provided, that this subsection shall not apply to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years who is accompanied by his or her
parent or guardian, or to that portion of any licensed premises which derives
its principal business from restaurants or the sale of service or commodities
other than alcoholic liquor.
For the purpose of preventing the violation of this subsection, any licensee,
or his agent or employee, may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic beverages to
any person who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of identity and
of the fact that he or she is over the age of twenty one (21) years, as
required by this chapter. (1976 Code §3-48)
   C.   Identification Requirements:
      1.   If a licensee or his agent or employee believes, has reason to
believe or should have reason to believe that a sale or delivery of alcoholic
liquor is prohibited because the prospective recipient is underage, then he
shall, before making such sale or delivery, demand presentation of at least two
(2) separate forms of positive identification, each containing proof of age,
each issued by a public officer in the performance of his official duties and
one of those forms of identification must contain a picture of the holder
thereof. A traffic citation shall not be accepted as identification or evidence
of age.
      2.   No person shall transfer, alter or deface an identification card
issued by a Federal, state, county or municipal government or subdivision or
agency thereof, use the identification card of another, carry or use a false or
forged identification card, or obtain an identification card by means of false
identification.
      3.   No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have possession of
alcoholic liquor by the use of an altered, forged or defaced identification
card or by the use of an identification card of another person.
      4.   No person shall misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor in any place in the Village where
alcoholic liquor is sold at retail. (1976 Code §3-49)
      5.   Any underage person found guilty of attempting to obtain delivery of
alcoholic liquor by use of false proof of age shall be subject to a mandatory
fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 94-70, 9-22-94)
   D.   Warning Signs: In every place in the Village where alcoholic liquor is
sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card
which shall be supplied by the Village Clerk and which shall read substantially
as follows:
WARNING: If you are under twenty one (21) years of age, you are subject to a
fine up to $500.00 under the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Woodridge, if
you PURCHASE alcoholic liquor or MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor. OFFICIAL PHOTO IDENTIFICATION will be
required to prove age before purchase.
(1976 Code §3-50)
   E.   Employment of Minors:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to engage, employ
or permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to attend bar and/
or to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed premises;
provided, that the provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to
prevent the employment of persons who are at least nineteen (19) years of age
as waiters or waitresses in restaurants, hotels or motels for the purpose of
serving food and alcoholic liquor on the licensed retail premises.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to engage, employ
or permit any person under twenty one (21) years of age to sell any alcoholic
liquor in any licensed premises. (1976 Code §3-52)
   F.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for any parent or
guardian to knowingly suffer or permit any minor child, of which he or she may
be the parent or guardian, to violate any provision of this Chapter. (1976 Code
§3-46)
   G.   Additional Penalty for Sale to Minors: In addition to all other fines
and penalties, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke, suspend or
refuse to renew any license of a licensee who violates the provisions of
subsections
3-3-21C and 3-3-22B of this Chapter or whose employee or agent violates the
provisions of said subsections.
Proof that the licensee, or his employee or agent, demanded, was shown, and
reasonably relied upon written evidence of identification, as required by
subsection C of this Section, in any transaction forbidden by subsections
3-3-21C and 3-3-22B of this Chapter, is competent evidence and may be
considered in any ordinance violation prosecution or in any proceedings for the
suspension or revocation of any license based on a violation of subsections
3-3-21C and 3-3-22B of this Chapter. (1976 Code §3-51; amd. Ord. 94-70, 9-22-
94)
   H.   Vicarious Liability of a Parent or Other Person Facilitating the Use or
Abuse of Alcoholic Liquor: The following persons shall be liable to any
individual who has been injured by an alcohol-impaired underage person when the
impairment is a contributing cause of the injury:
      1.   Any person who delivered to the underage person any alcoholic liquor
which contributed to the impairment. The person making the initial delivery to
an underage person remains liable to anyone injured by the same or different
underage person regardless of how many times the alcoholic liquor changed
hands.
      2.   Any person in control of a premises, who knowingly or negligently
fails to maintain supervision to such an extent that alcoholic liquor is
consumed on the premises by an underage person.
      3.   Any person who knowingly or negligently permits the operation of a
motor vehicle under his or her control by an underage person, when the person
knew or in the exercise of ordinary judgment should have known that the
underage person was either impaired or had consumed any amount of alcoholic
liquor within two (2) hours prior to when the permission was granted.
The vicarious liability established by this subsection shall not be subject to
the limitations on damages as set forth in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
21.
   I.   Operation of a Motor Vehicle by Underage Persons with Alcoholic Liquor
in or on the Vehicle; or When the Underage Person is Impaired Due to Alcoholic
Liquor: The following shall apply when any underage person is found in the
Village operating any motor vehicle in which or on which is found any alcoholic
liquor of any kind or nature, or when the underage person is in a state of
impairment due to consumption of alcoholic liquor:
      1.   The motor vehicle shall be subject to immediate impoundment by the
police department;
      2.   The motor vehicle may be released only to another person showing
proof of ownership or lease rights to the motor vehicle:
         a.   If the vehicle operator is under eighteen (18) years of age and
is the owner or lessor of the vehicle, then the vehicle may be released only to
a parent or legal guardian of the underage owner;
      3.   The motor vehicle may not be released to any person who was a
passenger in the motor vehicle at the time the alcoholic liquor was found
unless at least twenty four (24) hours have passed from the time of the
finding; (Ord. 94-70, 9-22-1994)
      4.   (Rep. by Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
      5.   The following factors shall not be considerations in determining
whether or not to impound the motor vehicle:
         a.   Whether the alcoholic liquor is in an opened or unopened
container;
         b.   Whether the operator is the owner of the alcoholic liquor or the
vehicle;
         c.   Whether the operator had knowledge of the existence of the
alcoholic liquor within the motor vehicle.
      6.   The above obligations and penalties shall be in addition to the
penalties that may be assessed in a court of law for any charges incident to
the stop;
      7.   Any law enforcement officer, the police department and the village
and any of its officers or agents shall be absolutely immune from any liability
or exposure to liability of any kind or nature for the enforcement or
implementation of this subsection.
   J.   Unless another penalty is set forth in this chapter, every person found
guilty of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and a separate offense shall be
deemed to have been committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs
or continues. Any fines set forth in this chapter shall be assessed regardless
of whether the violator is convicted or placed on supervision by the court. If
the court is of the opinion that the ends of justice would be better served by
requiring community service of the violator or a combination of a fine and
community service, the fine may be mitigated at a rate of one hour of community
service for every ten dollars ($10.00) of the mandatory fine. (Ord. 94-70, 9-
22-1994)
 
Notes
1 2. See also title 5, chapter 7, article A of this Code.
3-3-23: VIOLATION OF RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX ACT:
In addition to other grounds specified in this chapter, the local liquor
control commissioner may refuse the issuance or renewal of a retail liquor
dealer's license or suspend or revoke such license for any of the following
violations of the retailers' occupation tax act, approved June 28, 1933, as
amended 1 :
   A.   Failure to make a tax return.
   B.   The filing of fraudulent return.
   C.   Failure to pay all or part of any tax or penalty finally determined to
be due.
   D.   Failure to keep books and records.
   E.   Failure to secure and display a certificate or subcertificates of
registration.
   F.   Wilful violation of any rule or regulation of the state department of
revenue relating to the administration and enforcement of tax liability. (1976
Code §3-35)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq. See section
  3-2-1 of this title.
3-3-24: APPLICATION OF OTHER PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the licensee, owner, proprietor
or person in charge of any place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold
from the restrictions and requirements of any other provision of this code or
of the statutes of the state of Illinois. (1976 Code §3-44)
3-3-25: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; FINES:
   A.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: The local liquor control
commissioner may, in accordance with the liquor control act 1 , revoke or
suspend any license issued under the provisions of this chapter if he
determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of the liquor
control act 2 , this chapter or any other ordinance or resolution enacted by
the corporate authorities of the village, or any applicable rules or
regulations established by the local liquor control commissioner or the
Illinois liquor control commission, or any state and/or federal statute which
is not inconsistent with this chapter. (1976 Code §3-28; amd. 1991 Code)
   B.   Fine In Lieu Of Suspension Or Revocation 3 : In lieu of suspension or
revocation of a local license, the local liquor control commissioner may
instead levy a fine on the licensee. The fine imposed shall not exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation. Each day on which a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation. Not more than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) in fines may be imposed against any licensee during any
license year.
   C.   Immediate Closure Of Business: If the local liquor control commissioner
has reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular licensed
premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community, he may, upon
the issuance of a written order stating the reasons for such conclusion and
without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises closed for not more than
seven (7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that
period; except, that if the licensee is also engaged in another business on the
licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other business.
   D.   Public Hearing: No such license shall be so revoked or suspended and no
licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the local liquor
control commissioner with a three (3) day written notice to the licensee
affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend the charges
contained in such notice. The three (3) day notice provisions shall begin the
day following delivery by certified or registered mail or by personal service.
   E.   Decisions: The local liquor control commissioner shall, within five (5)
days after such hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license
should be revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the
reason for such determination in a written order and either the amount of the
fine, the period of suspension or that the license has been revoked and serve a
copy of such order within the five (5) days upon the licensee.
Review of the decisions of the local liquor control commissioner shall be as
provided for in 5/7-14 of the liquor control act 4  for home rule
municipalities and shall be limited to a review of the official record of the
local liquor control commissioner.
   F.   Costs: Any licensee determined by the local liquor control commissioner
to have violated any of the provisions of the liquor control act 5 , or any
ordinance or resolution of the village, or any rule or regulation established
by the local liquor control commissioner, or the Illinois liquor control
commission, shall pay to the village the costs of the hearing before the local
liquor control commissioner on such violation. The local liquor control
commissioner shall determine the costs incurred by the village for said
hearing, including, but not limited to: court reporter fees, the costs of
transcripts or records, attorney fees, the cost of preparing and mailing
notices and orders and all other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the village
or such lesser sum as the local liquor control commissioner may allow.
The licensee shall pay said costs to the village within thirty (30) days of
notification of the costs by the local liquor control commissioner. Failure to
pay said costs within thirty (30) days of notification is a violation of this
section and may be cause for license suspension or revocation, or the levy of a
fine.
In the event of an appeal to the Illinois liquor control commission, and in
cases where the appeal is taken pursuant to the administrative review act 6 ,
payment is due forty (40) days after the entry of an order finally affirming
the determination of the local liquor control commissioner. (1976 Code §3-28)
   G.   Effect Of License Revocation: When any license shall have been revoked
for any cause, no license shall be granted to said licensee for the period of
one year thereafter for the conduct of the business of selling alcoholic liquor
at retail in the premises described in such revoked license. (1976 Code §3-30)
 
Notes
1 2. 235 ILCS.
2 3. 235 ILCS.
3 4. See also subsection
  3-3-27B of this chapter.
4 1. 235 ILCS.
5 2. 235 ILCS.
6 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
3-3-26: RECORDS KEPT:
The village clerk shall keep a complete record of all local retail liquor
dealers' licenses issued and shall immediately give written notice to the chief
of police of the issuance, renewal, revocation or suspension of any license.
The village clerk shall process all applications for local retail liquor
dealer's licenses and any renewal thereof. In addition, at the request of the
local liquor control commissioner, the village clerk shall perform such other
duties as may be necessary to administer the provisions contained in this
chapter. (1976 Code §3-17)
3-3-27: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES 1 :
   A.   Liability For Violations: Every act or omission of whatsoever nature
constituting a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by any
officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any licensee shall be
deemed and held to be the act of such employer or licensee and such employer or
licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if such act or omission had
been done or omitted by him personally. (1976 Code §3-31)
   B.   Penalties Generally 2 : Any person violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more
than the maximum amount permitted by section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. In
addition to any other penalty, a licensee convicted of violating any provision
of this chapter may be subject to having his license revoked, suspended or not
renewed by the local liquor control commissioner. (1976 Code §3-54; amd. Ord.
95-64, 12-14-1995; Ord. 96-26, 6-13-1996)
   C.   License Revocation As Additional Penalty: Whenever any licensee shall
have been convicted by any court of a violation of any of the provisions of the
liquor control act 3 , or of this chapter or any other ordinances of the
village controlling or regulating the sale of alcoholic liquors, the licensee
shall, in addition to all other penalties for such offense, incur a forfeiture
of any local retail liquor dealer's license issued pursuant to this chapter and
all monies that have been paid therefor. (1976 Code §3-29)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection
  3-3-22G of this chapter.
2 1. See subsection
  3-3-25B of this chapter.
3 2. 235 ILCS.
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENTS AND SPECIAL EVENTS
ARTICLE A. AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-4A-1: Definitions
3-4A-2: License Required
3-4A-3: Application For License; Fee
3-4A-4: Compliance With Zoning Regulations
3-4A-5: Supervisory Personnel
3-4A-6: Patrons Restricted
3-4A-7: Temporary License
3-4A-8: Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Appeal
3-4A-9: Penalty
3-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them herein:
AMUSEMENT DEVICES: Any mechanical, electric or electronic amusement machine or
device used for the purpose of amusement or as a test of skill. The term
"amusement devices" shall not include vending machines not operated for
purposes of amusement or as a test of skill, mechanical musical devices,
jukeboxes or television sets, children's rides, billiards or pool tables, or
athletic activities, including, but not limited to, golf driving and putting
facilities, tennis courts, baseball batting cages and handball or racquetball
courts.
PROPRIETOR: Any person who, as an owner, lessee, franchisee or operator, has
under his or its control any business in or at which an amusement device(s) is
placed or kept for use or play, or in exhibition for the purpose of use or
play. (1976 Code §9-70; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 2002-50, 12-12-2002)
3-4A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of being the proprietor of amusement
devices without first having obtained a license therefor pursuant to this
article. (1976 Code §9-71; amd. Ord. 2002-50, 12-12-2002)
3-4A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
Application for a license hereunder shall be made in writing to the village
clerk and shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of chapter 1 of
this title. (1976 Code §9-72)
The license fee for each "proprietor" as herein defined shall be set forth in
subsection 3-1A-3C2 of this title. (1976 Code §9-73)
3-4A-4: COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS:
Amusement devices shall only be permitted in accordance with the regulations
contained in the zoning ordinance, being title 9 of this code 1 . (1976 Code
§9-77; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 2002-50, 12-12-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-6-2 of this code.
3-4A-5: SUPERVISORY PERSONNEL:
There shall be at least one supervisory employee, twenty one (21) years or
older, in attendance at all times on any premises containing amusement devices
during operating hours. (1976 Code §9-74; amd. Ord. 2002-50, 12-12-2002)
3-4A-6: PATRONS RESTRICTED:
   A.   No person under fifteen (15) years of age may operate amusement devices
prior to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on school days, unless accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian. A sign informing the public of the age restrictions
provided for herein shall be posted adjacent to the amusement devices. Each
such sign shall state:
NO PERSON UNDER FIFTEEN (15) YEARS OF AGE MAY OPERATE AMUSEMENT DEVICES PRIOR
TO 5:00 P.M. ON SCHOOL DAYS, UNLESS ACCOMPANIED BY HIS OR HER PARENT OR
GUARDIAN.
The text of such signs shall be in letters at least one and one-half inches
(11/2") high.
   B.   No person under eighteen (18) years of age may operate amusement
devices from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. until closing, Sunday through
Thursday, or twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight until closing Friday or Saturday,
unless accompanied by his or her parent or guardian. A sign informing the
public of the special curfew regulations provided for herein shall be posted
adjacent to the amusement devices. Each such sign shall state:
NO PERSON UNDER EIGHTEEN (18) YEARS OF AGE MAY OPERATE AMUSEMENT DEVICES FROM
11:00 P.M. UNTIL CLOSING, SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY, OR 12:00 A.M. UNTIL CLOSING,
FRIDAY OR SATURDAY, UNLESS ACCOMPANIED BY HIS OR HER PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
The text of such signs shall be in letters at least one and one-half inches
(11/2") high. (Ord. 2002-50, 12-12-2002)
3-4A-7: TEMPORARY LICENSE:
Notwithstanding any provision contained in section
3-4A-4 of this article to the contrary, the village administrator shall be
authorized to grant a temporary license for the use or play of amusement
devices in conjunction with a licensed event open to the public (including, but
not limited to, carnivals, musical concerts, picnics, fireworks displays,
circuses, etc.), sponsored by a governmental unit or other not for profit
organization, subject to the following conditions:
   A.   The term of any temporary license shall not exceed five (5) days.
   B.   The use or play of amusement devices shall only be permitted between
the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   C.   The number of amusement devices permitted shall not exceed twelve (12).
   D.   All amusement devices shall be located in a designated area as approved
by the village administrator.
   E.   Except as expressly modified by the provisions of this section, any
person holding a temporary license shall otherwise comply with all provisions
contained in this article. (1976 Code §9-78; amd. Ord. 2002-50, 12-12-2002)
3-4A-8: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL:
Any license granted hereunder may be suspended or revoked as provided for in
section
3-1-14 of this title. All appeals shall be in accordance with section
3-1-15 of this title. (1976 Code §9-79; amd. Ord. 2002-50, 12-12-2002)
3-4A-9: PENALTY:
Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this article shall be
subject to the penalties contained in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code §9-80; amd. Ord. 2002-50, 12-12-2002)
ARTICLE B. RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-4B-1: Definitions
3-4B-2: License Required; Special Events Permit
3-4B-3: Application For License
3-4B-4: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
3-4B-5: Term Of License; Contents
3-4B-6: Issuance And Revocation Of License
3-4B-7: Conduct Of Raffles
3-4B-8: Raffles Manager; Bond
3-4B-9: Records And Reports
3-4B-10: Penalty
3-4B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them:
BUSINESS: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses who
have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and civic
interests of a community.
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged, in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not for
profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in section 5/28-2(b) of the criminal
code, being 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-2(b), conducted by an
organization licensed under this article in which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance;
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of the persons conducting or connected with the lottery; except, that the
winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited
sporting contest.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (1976 Code §9-58; amd. Ord. 2010-39, 8-19-2010)
3-4B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; SPECIAL EVENTS PERMIT:
No person shall conduct raffles or chances within the village without first
having obtained a license therefor pursuant to this article. Furthermore, no
person shall conduct raffles or chances that are deemed to be special events as
defined in section
3-4D-1 of this chapter without first having obtained a special events permit
pursuant to article D of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-35, 6-7-2007)
3-4B-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for licenses to conduct raffles shall be made to the village
administrator or his designated representative, signed by the applicant or its
duly authorized representatives and verified by oath or affidavit, and shall
contain the following information and statements:
   A.   Name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an individual, or
in the case of a corporation or other organization, the duly authorized
representative of the applicant, the date of incorporation of any corporation,
the date of formation of any other organization, the object for which an
organization or corporation was formed, the names and addresses of the officers
and directors of any organization or corporation.
   B.   The area or areas within the village in which raffle chances will be
sold or issued, the time period during which raffle chances will be sold or
issued, the time of determination of winning chances and the location or
locations at which winning chances will be determined.
   C.   A sworn statement attesting to the not for profit character of the
prospective licensee organization signed by the presiding officer and secretary
of that organization.
   D.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this article, other ordinances of this village, laws of the state
of Illinois or of the United States Of America.
   E.   Whether a previous license issued by any state or subdivision thereof
or by the federal government has been revoked and the reasons therefor.
   F.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state of Illinois or of the United States or any ordinance of this village in
the conduct of the raffle.
   G.   A statement that the applicant will not allow gambling devices or
gambling on the premises where the drawing will be held. (1976 Code §9-60)
3-4B-4: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable, labor,
business, fraternal, educational or veterans' organizations that operate
without profit to their members and which have been in existence continuously
for a period of five (5) years immediately before making application for a
license and which have had during that entire five (5) year period a bona fide
membership engaged in carrying out their objects. (1976 Code §9-59; amd. Ord.
2010-39, 8-19-2010)
No such license shall be issued to:
   A.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony.
   B.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter.
   C.   Any person who is not of good moral character.
   D.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection A, B or
C of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in which
such a person is active or employed.
   E.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B or C of
this section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not.
   F.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B or C of
this section is to participate in the management or operation of a "raffle" as
defined in this article. (1976 Code §9-61)
3-4B-5: TERM OF LICENSE; CONTENTS:
A license authorizes the licensee to conduct raffles as defined in this
article. Each such license is valid for one raffle.
The license shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name of the licensee.
   B.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by the
licensee in a single raffle. In no event shall the aggregate retail value of
all prizes or merchandise exceed the sum of two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000.00) in a single raffle.
   C.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by the licensee in a
single raffle. In no event shall the retail value of each prize exceed the sum
of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) in a single raffle.
   D.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued or
sold. In no event shall the price of each raffle chance issued or sold exceed
two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   E.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold.
   F.   The date on which the drawing is to be held.
   G.   The place at which the drawing is to be held. (1976 Code §9-62)
3-4B-6: ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Approval Or Disapproval Of License Application: The village
administrator or his designated representative shall either approve or
disapprove each application for issuance of a license within thirty (30) days
after the completed application is filed with the village.
   B.   Appeal: In the event that the village administrator or his designated
representative disapproves an application or fails to take any action on an
application within the thirty (30) day period, the applicant shall have the
right to appeal to the mayor and board of trustees at the next regularly
scheduled board meeting. The mayor and board of trustees shall have the right
to review the application and approve or deny issuance of the applied for
license. (1976 Code §9-63)
   C.   Revocation Of License: The village administrator, or his designated
representative, may revoke any license issued by the village if it is
determined that the licensee has violated any provision of this article.
However, no such license shall be so revoked except after a public hearing by
the village administrator, or his designated representative, upon a three (3)
day prior written notice to the licensee affording said licensee an opportunity
to appear and defend. (1991 Code)
The village administrator or his designated representative shall, within three
(3) days after the conclusion of such hearing, decide whether the license shall
be revoked. If he determines that the license should be revoked, he shall state
the reason or reasons for such determination in a written order of revocation
and shall serve a copy of such order upon the licensee within three (3) days
thereafter. (1976 Code §9-63)
3-4B-7: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   B.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   C.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle. (1976 Code §9-64)
   D.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license and winning chances may be determined only at those times and at
those locations specified on the license.
   E.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years
may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only when
accompanied by his parent or guardian. (1976 Code §9-64; amd. Ord. 2010-39, 8-
19-2010)
3-4B-8: RAFFLES MANAGER; BOND:
All operation of and conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of a
single raffles manager designated by the organization making application for a
license. The manager shall give a fidelity bond in an amount not less than the
anticipated gross receipts for each raffle. The bond shall be in favor of the
organization and conditioned upon his honesty in the performance of his duties.
Terms of the bond shall also provide that notice be given in writing to the
village of Woodridge not less than thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation.
The village administrator or his designated representative is authorized to
waive this bond requirement by including a waiver provision in the license
issued; provided, that a license containing such waiver provision shall be
granted only by unanimous vote of the members of the licensed organization.
(1976 Code §9-65)
3-4B-9: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   Records Kept:
      1.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
      2.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license thereof issued by the department of revenue of the state of
Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same
person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
      3.   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and organizations shall make available their records relating to
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
   B.   Reports Required: Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall
report monthly to its membership and to the village its gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the raffles, and the distribution of net
proceeds itemized as required by this section. (Ord. 82-4, §1)
3-4B-10: PENALTY:
Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this article shall be
subject to the penalties contained in sections
1-4-1 and
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 82-4, §1; amd. Ord. 84-52, §17)
ARTICLE C. AMUSEMENT ATTRACTIONS, AMUSEMENT RIDES, CARNIVALS AND FAIRS
SECTION:
3-4C-1: Definitions
3-4C-2: License Required; Special Events Permit
3-4C-3: State Of Illinois Permit Required
3-4C-4: Application For License
3-4C-5: Compliance With Zoning Regulations
3-4C-6: Insurance Required
3-4C-7: Conditions Of License
3-4C-8: Denial Of Entry To Amusement Ride Or Attraction
3-4C-9: Violation And Penalty
3-4C-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them herein:
AMUSEMENT ATTRACTION: An enclosed building or structure, including electrical
equipment which is an integral part of the building or structure, through which
people walk without aid of any moving device, that provides amusement, thrills
or excitement at a fair or carnival, and which includes amusement rides.
AMUSEMENT RIDE: Any mechanized device or combination of devices, including
electrical equipment which is an integral part of the device or devices, which
carries passengers along, around or over a fixed or restricted course for the
primary purpose of giving its passengers amusement, pleasure, thrills or
excitement.
CARNIVAL: An enterprise which offers amusement or entertainment to the public
by means of one or more amusement attractions or amusement rides.
FAIR: An enterprise principally devoted to the exhibition of products or
agriculture or industry in connection with which amusement rides or amusement
attractions are operated.
OPERATOR: A person, or the agent of a person, who owns or controls or has the
duty to control the operation of an amusement ride or an amusement attraction
at a carnival or fair. Operator includes an agent of the state or any of its
political subdivisions. (Ord. 94-51, 7-28-1994)
3-4C-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; SPECIAL EVENTS PERMIT:
No person shall conduct or operate any amusement attraction, amusement ride,
carnival or fair without first having obtained a license therefor pursuant to
this article. Furthermore, no person shall conduct or operate any amusement
attraction, amusement ride, carnival or fair that is deemed to be a "special
event" as defined in section
3-4D-1 of this chapter without first having obtained a special events permit
pursuant to article D of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-35, 6-7-2007)
3-4C-3: STATE OF ILLINOIS PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or operate any amusement attraction, amusement ride,
carnival or fair without a valid and current state of Illinois permit issued by
the Illinois department of labor pursuant to 1992, 430 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 85/2-1 et seq. Such permit to operate shall be posted in full public
view on or near the amusement attraction, amusement ride, carnival or fair. If
an amusement attraction, amusement ride, carnival and fair undergoes a
substantial alteration or is repaired after a breakdown, it shall be
reinspected or approved for use by the director of the Illinois department of
labor. All such amusement attractions, amusement rides, carnivals or fairs
governed by this article must be assembled, operated and disassembled in
accordance with the provisions of the state of Illinois carnival and amusement
rides safety act. (Ord. 94-51, 7-28-1994)
3-4C-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Not more than three (3) licenses hereunder shall be issued by the
village, per calendar year. All applications for a license hereunder shall be
in writing to the village clerk, which shall contain such information as the
village may require and shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 1 of this title.
   B.   The license fee for each "amusement attraction", "amusement ride",
"carnival" or "fair" as herein defined shall be set forth in subsection
3-1A-3C2 of this title. (Ord. 94-51, 7-28-1994)
3-4C-5: COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS:
Any person conducting or operating any amusement attraction, amusement ride,
carnival or fair shall do so in accordance with all regulations contained in
the building code and zoning ordinance, titles 8 and 9 of this code and all
applicable state and federal laws. (Ord. 94-51, 7-28-1994)
3-4C-6: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Any person conducting or operating an amusement ride, amusement attraction,
carnival or fair shall furnish evidence to the village clerk that public
liability insurance policy or policies in an aggregate amount of not less than
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for bodily injury to or death of one
person in any one accident, and subject to the limit for one person, in an
amount of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for bodily injury
to or death of two (2) or more persons in any one accident, and in an amount of
not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for injury to or destruction
of property of others in any one accident, insuring the operator against
liability for injury or death suffered by a person attending an amusement ride,
amusement attraction, carnival or fair. (Ord. 94-51, 7-28-1994)
3-4C-7: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Public Safety: All village community development and police department
personnel shall have free access at all times to any amusement attraction,
amusement ride, carnival or fair for the purpose of maintaining the peace and
inspecting the site to ensure public safety as provided by 430 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 85/2-17. (Ord. 94-51, 7-28-1994; amd. Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-
2010)
   B.   Concessions And Food Dispensing Facilities: All concessions and food
dispensing facilities shall be maintained in a safe, clean condition at all
times and be in accordance with applicable ordinances of the village and DuPage
County. Any and all permits issued by the DuPage County health department shall
be posted in full public view at the food service operation and shall be
obtained prior to commencement of such operation.
   C.   Location Restriction: Except for vehicular parking, no portion of a
carnival, exhibition, show or other amusement which takes place in whole or in
part outdoors shall be located less than two hundred feet (200') from the
nearest lot line of a lot in residential use. (Ord. 94-51, 7-28-1994)
3-4C-8: DENIAL OF ENTRY TO AMUSEMENT RIDE OR ATTRACTION:
The owner or operator of an amusement ride or amusement attraction may deny
entry to a person to an amusement ride or amusement attraction if, in the
owner's or operator's opinion, the entry may jeopardize the safety of such
person or the safety of any other person. (Ord. 94-51, 7-28-1994)
3-4C-9: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provisions of this article.
Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this article shall be
subject to the penalties contained in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 94-51, 7-28-1994)
ARTICLE D. SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
3-4D-1: Definitions
3-4D-2: Permit Required; Exceptions
3-4D-3: Permit Application
3-4D-4: Review And Issuance Of Permit
3-4D-5: Conditions Of Permit
3-4D-6: Denial Or Revocation Of Permit
3-4D-7: Violation And Penalty
3-4D-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them herein:
FARM STAND: A designated area with one booth where, on designated days and
times, a grower or producer may sell directly to the public in accordance with
village regulations.
FARMERS' MARKET: A designated area with a minimum of two (2) or more booths
where, on designated days and times, growers, producers, and crafters may sell
directly to the public, in accordance with village regulations.
SPECIAL EVENT: Any outdoor temporary event which is held on village owned
property, including streets and sidewalks, or which is held on nonvillage owned
property and significantly impacts the village. Events which significantly
impact the village shall include, but are not limited to, those that include
any of the following:
   A.   Street closures or the posting of "No Parking, Tow Zone" signs.
   B.   Support services provided by the village of Woodridge police or public
works departments or by the fire protection district.
   C.   Closures of required parking facilities or portions thereof.
   D.   The preparation and/or sale of food or drink or alcoholic beverages.
   E.   Fireworks.
   F.   Live music, recorded music, and/or the use of amplifiers.
   G.   The use of tents or canopies larger than three hundred (300) square
feet.
   H.   Gatherings of more than fifty (50) people.
   I.   Farmers' market/farm stand.
   J.   Holiday tree sales.
Examples of special events include, but are not limited to, street dances, car
wash fundraising events, carnivals, circuses, Woodridge Jubilee, Cultural Fest,
marathons, parades, "cruise nights" vehicle exhibitions, Fourth Of July
fireworks, outdoor concerts and/or musical events, and tent sales. (Ord. 2007-
35, 6-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2013-53, 10-24-2013)
3-4D-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
No person or organization shall conduct, participate in, aid, form or start any
special event in the village prior to obtaining a special event permit from the
village administrator of the village or his or her designee.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
   A.   Block parties.
   B.   Neighborhood parades.
   C.   Private events on single-family residential lots.
   D.   Events held in a permanent outdoor structure or facility specifically
designed for that event. Examples of permanent outdoor structures or facilities
include, but are not limited to, aquatic parks, sports fields, playgrounds, and
picnic shelters.
   E.   Corporate groundbreaking, grand opening and ribbon cutting ceremonies.
(Ord. 2007-35, 6-7-2007)
3-4D-3: PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   The person or persons in charge of or in control of a special event
shall submit an application for a special event permit to the village
administrator of the village or his or her designee, on forms provided by the
village administrator or designee, at least sixty (60) days prior to the event.
The village administrator or designee may deny the permit if it is determined
that there is insufficient time to review the application.
   B.   At the discretion of the village administrator or designee, special
events that are proposed to occur more than once a year in substantially the
same manner may be approved under a single permit application.
   C.   The application for the special event permit shall include the
following information, as applicable:
      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of the person(s) or
organization(s) seeking to conduct the special event.
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the person(s) who will be
in charge during the event and who will be responsible for its conduct.
      3.   An original letter of authorization from the owner(s) of the
property where the special event is to occur, authorizing the use of the
property for the event.
      4.   The description and purpose of the event.
      5.   The location of the event.
      6.   A site layout plan for the event and/or a map of the route to be
traveled.
      7.   The date(s) when the event is to be conducted, the desired starting
time and anticipated duration.
      8.   The anticipated number of attendees, and whether the event is open
to the general public or limited to a specific group.
      9.   A written description of the planned role and responsibilities of
volunteers, if any.
      10.   A written description and map of the traffic control and parking
plan.
      11.   An emergency response plan for weather, medical and other
emergencies, which shall include, but not be limited to, an early warning
system, a communications plan, an evacuation plan, shelter locations, first aid
center, and provision for emergency medical staff.
      12.   An event security and safety plan.
      13.   A postevent cleanup plan.
      14.   A resident/business notification plan.
      15.   A lighting plan.
      16.   A sound control plan.
      17.   A description of any proposed food, drink or alcoholic beverage
preparation or sales.
      18.   A written explanation of requested village services, if any
(traffic control, installation of crowd control fencing, setting up street
barriers, etc.) and executed reimbursement agreement in a form provided by the
village administrator or designee.
      19.   Completed applications for other applicable permits and/or licenses
including, but not limited to, tents, electrical hookups, raffles, and liquor
licenses, whether required by the village, county, or any other regulatory
agency.
      20.   An executed hold harmless agreement in a form provided by the
village administrator or designee.
      21.   Evidence of public liability insurance in an amount determined
appropriate by the village administrator or designee. (Ord. 2007-35, 6-7-2007)
      22.   As part of the application to permit a farmers' market or farm
stand an applicant shall submit documentation showing (as opposed to merely
stating) that it will comply with the following standards:
         a.   Eligible products for sale include sale articles for human
consumption, such as fruits, vegetables, edible grains, nuts and berries,
apiary products, maple sugars, syrups, eggs, cheese products, sausage, or
nonedible articles such as cut or potted flowers, or arts and crafts which
articles have been raised, prepared, or assembled by the grower, producer, or
crafter by members of their family or by persons in their employ. All articles
offered for sale by the grower or producer must be grown or processed in the
state of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan or Wisconsin. Sale of any type of meat,
fish or poultry and refrigerated dairy products or any article proscribed by
the county health department, with the exception of those products specifically
permitted to be sold under this article, shall be prohibited. The sale of eggs,
cheese products and sausage shall be permitted only if proper refrigeration is
provided.
         b.   All farmers' markets or farm stands and their vendor(s) comply
with all federal, state and local laws relating to the operation, use and
enjoyment of the market premises.
         c.   On site presence of a market/stand manager during all hours of
operation who shall direct the operations of all vendors participating in the
market/stand and verify that the requisite number of individual booth(s) are
operated by grower or producers.
         d.   Assignment of booth(s) and registration of grower or producers.
         e.   An established set of operating rules addressing the governance
structure of the market/stand, hours of operation, maintenance, security
requirements, and the appointment of a market/stand manager.
         f.   Provision for recycling and waste removal in accordance with all
applicable codes. All farmers' markets/farm stands and their vendors receive
all required operating and health permits and these permits (or copies) shall
be in the possession of the farmers' market/farm stand operator or the vendor,
as applicable, on the site of the farmers' market/farm stand during all hours
of operation.
         g.   Each vendor is responsible for collecting his/her own sales
taxes, where it is applicable.
         h.   Hours of operation shall be during a window between seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. but in no event may a market or stand
operate more than three (3) days per week and for more than six (6) hours per
day. Setup of market operations shall begin no earlier than six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. and takedown shall end no later than ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      23.   Any additional information which the village administrator or
designee shall find reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether
a special event permit should be issued. (Ord. 2013-53, 10-24-2013)
3-4D-4: REVIEW AND ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Within twenty one (21) days after the receipt of a complete application, the
village administrator, or designee, shall review the application and shall
either issue a special event permit or provide written notice to the applicant
stating the reasons why a special event permit cannot be issued. (Ord. 2007-35,
6-7-2007)
3-4D-5: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
All special event permits shall be subject to the following conditions as
deemed applicable by the village administrator or designee:
   A.   The applicant shall provide written notification to adjacent residents
and businesses at least two (2) weeks in advance of any proposed street and/or
parking lot closures.
   B.   The special event shall maintain an appropriate setback from adjacent
properties as deemed appropriate by the village administrator or designee in
order to minimize the impact on surrounding land uses. (Ord. 2007-35, 6-7-2007)
   C.   Restroom facilities as deemed appropriate by the building commissioner
shall be provided for events longer than two (2) hours in duration. (Ord. 2007-
35, 6-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-2010)
   D.   The applicant or his designee shall provide for the prompt disposal of
refuse generated by the special event. (Ord. 2007-35, 6-7-2007)
   E.   All village community development and police department personnel shall
have free access at all times to the special event for the purpose of
maintaining the peace and inspecting the site to ensure public health, safety
and welfare. (Ord. 2007-35, 6-7-2007; amd. Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-2010)
   F.   The chief of police or his designee shall have the authority, but not
the obligation, to terminate a special event in the event of an emergency or
severe weather or in order to preserve the public health, safety and welfare.
   G.   All special events shall comply with all applicable local, state, and
federal government laws and regulations.
   H.   The village administrator or designee reserves the right to make
changes to the proposed event based on availability of services and scheduling
of other events.
   I.   Any other conditions as deemed necessary by the village administrator
or designee to protect the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 2007-35, 6-
7-2007)
3-4D-6: DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The village administrator or designee shall have the authority to deny an
application for a special event permit or revoke a permit issued hereunder upon
noncompliance with the standards for issuance as herein set forth, including,
but not limited to, the following:
   A.   The applicant has failed to provide all necessary information.
   B.   The applicant has provided false information.
   C.   The application does not comply with all local, state and federal
governmental laws and regulations.
   D.   The applicant has a history of violating local, state or federal
governmental laws or regulations.
   E.   The proposed special event would adversely affect public health, safety
or welfare.
   F.   The applicant has outstanding fines, fees or monies owed to the
village.
   G.   The permit was issued in error.
   H.   The application was submitted less than sixty (60) days in advance of
the event. (Ord. 2007-35, 6-7-2007)
3-4D-7: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this article.
Any person found to be in violation of any provisions of this article shall be
subject to the penalties contained in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2007-35, 6-7-2007)
ARTICLE E. VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
3-4E-1: Definitions
3-4E-2: Video Gaming Allowed
3-4E-2-1: Sweepstakes Machines Prohibited
3-4E-3: Annual Video Gaming License Required
3-4E-4: Application For License
3-4E-5: Term Of License
3-4E-6: Annual License Fee; Proration
3-4E-7: Conditions Of License
3-4E-8: Violations And Penalty
3-4E-9: License Required For Video Gaming Terminal Operators
3-4E-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the meaning
ascribed to them herein:
LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT: Any licensed retail establishment where alcoholic
liquor is drawn, poured, mixed or otherwise served for consumption on the
premises. The term licensed establishment includes any licensed fraternal
establishment and/or licensed veterans establishment as those terms are defined
in the Video Gaming Act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., as
amended ("Video Gaming Act").
TERMINAL OPERATOR: Any individual, partnership, corporation, or limited
liability company that is licensed under the Video Gaming Act and that owns,
services, and maintains video gaming terminals for placement in licensed
establishments, licensed truck stop establishments, licensed large truck stop
establishments, licensed fraternal establishments, or licensed veterans
establishments.
VIDEO GAMING: The ownership, placement, maintenance, operation or use of a
"video gaming terminal" (as defined herein) in a "licensed establishment" (as
defined herein) within the Village.
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video game machine, that upon insertion
of cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any combination thereof, is available
to play or simulate the play of a video game, including, but not limited to,
video poker, line up and blackjack, as authorized by the Illinois Gaming Board,
utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player may receive
free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does not include
a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash or tokens or is for amusement
purposes only. (Ord. 2016-23, 6-2-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-10, 3-5-2020)
3-4E-2: VIDEO GAMING ALLOWED:
Video gaming is allowed in certain licensed establishments within the Village
only in accordance with this article. Subject to all other provisions of this
article, video gaming shall only be permitted and a video gaming license issued
to a licensed establishment that is the holder of a Class A-1, A-3, or E-
1 liquor license, where meals shall be actually and regularly prepared on the
premises and served in accordance with either a general or specialized menu.
Adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment shall be provided and
maintained. The licensed premises shall have a minimum "total floor area" of
two thousand (2,000) square feet as that term is defined in chapter 1 of this
title. Further, subject to all other provisions of this article, video gaming
shall only be permitted and a video gaming license issued to a licensed
establishment that, in addition to being the holder of a Class A-1, A-3, or E-
1 liquor license, has been issued a supplemental Class VG liquor license. (Ord.
2016-28, 7-21-2016)
3-4E-2-1: SWEEPSTAKES MACHINES PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to own, lease or operate any sweepstakes machine,
as herein defined, in any place of public resort within the Village.
   B.   For purposes of this section, "sweepstakes machines" shall be defined
as any standalone, table top, or similar mechanically, electrically or
electronically operated device in which, upon payment, a participant is
automatically entered into a sweepstakes or similar promotion wherein the
participant has the option to reveal the results of entry into said sweepstakes
or promotion via a display mimicking slot machines, poker, keno, bingo, or any
form of a printed ticket or otherwise, for cash or merchandise as a prize. Any
such device shall be considered a sweepstakes machine regardless of whether a
coupon for a product or service is provided in exchange for the payment.
   C.   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
video gaming terminals as otherwise authorized by this Code. (Ord. 2019-3, 2-
21-2019)
3-4E-3: ANNUAL VIDEO GAMING LICENSE REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided herein, no establishment shall be permitted to
operate any video gaming terminal pursuant to the Illinois Video Gaming Act
unless the establishment has first obtained a license and paid an annual
license fee to the Village as hereafter provided, and has been licensed by the
Illinois Gaming Board. No license may issue where the license applicant owes a
debt, fine, fee or penalty to the Village. No establishment is eligible to
obtain a State license until they have successfully obtained a Village license.
In the event that an existing qualified licensed establishment sells said
establishment to another entity, the new establishment will be considered for
licensure following the approval and submittal of a valid State license. (Ord.
2017-63, 10-19-2017; amd. Ord. 2020-15, 8-6-2020)
3-4E-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application to the Village for a video gaming license shall be made in
conformity with chapter 1 of this title, except as otherwise provided herein.
The application shall in addition set forth:
   A.   The location within the premises, as shown on a floor plan, where the
video gaming terminal(s) is to be located, maintained and/or operated;
   B.   Attach a responsible gaming policy, which outlines all employee
education and training programs, policies, and procedures to promote
responsible gaming. If standardized training for responsible gaming becomes
available at a future date, it shall be required as part of the video gaming
license application;
   C.   Such other information as the Village may determine is necessary as set
forth in the application form. (Ord. 2017-63, 10-19-2017)
3-4E-5: TERM OF LICENSE:
All licenses shall be valid for period not to exceed one (1) year after
issuance, unless sooner terminated, revoked or suspended as provided by law;
and all licenses shall terminate on April 30 next following their issuance. If
an establishment is unable to obtain a State license within one (1) year of the
issuance of a Village license, the Village license will be revoked. If an
establishment does obtain a State license and fails to activate any terminal
within one (1) year of State issuance, the Village license will not be renewed.
(Ord. 2017-63, 10-19-2017; amd. Ord. 2020-10, 3-5-2020)
3-4E-6: ANNUAL LICENSE FEE; PRORATION:
The annual business license fee for a video gaming license shall be as follows:
   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for
each video gaming terminal.
License fees are payable at the time of application and are not subject to
proration and are not refundable. (Ord. 2016-23, 6-2-2016)
3-4E-7: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
All such video gaming terminals shall at all times be kept, placed, operated,
and monitored in accordance with State laws and applicable regulations, as well
as all applicable provisions of this Code including, but not limited to:
   A.   Prohibiting persons under the age of twenty one (21) years and persons
who are visibly intoxicated from entering or remaining in the gaming area, and
posting signage thereof.
   B.   Video gaming terminals shall be placed in an area restricted to
individuals age twenty one (21) or over. If individuals under the age of twenty
one (21) are allowed in any portion of the licensed premises, the establishment
shall limit visibility of video gaming terminals from outside the gaming area
in which they are located.
   C.   The operation of video gaming terminals shall only be allowed during
the legal hours of operation allowed for the consumption of alcoholic beverages
at the licensed establishment. Upon the suspension or revocation of a
licensee's liquor license, the licensee's video gaming license shall
automatically be suspended (or revoked in the event of a liquor license
revocation) without the requirement of any further action by the Village.
   D.   The video gaming area shall be physically monitored at all times during
the legal hours of operation by an employee over twenty one (21) years of age.
   E.   In addition to subsection D of this section, there shall be installed
camera surveillance of the video gaming area, with equipment that has the
ability to record and may be accessed by the Police Department upon request to
investigate a suspected violation of this Code, any law or administrative code,
or any unlawful activity.
   F.   Required signage pursuant to State laws, regulations and Village
ordinances shall be posted at all times in the establishment's video gaming
area. (Ord. 2016-23, 6-2-2016)
3-4E-8: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this article.
Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this article shall be
subject to the penalties contained in section
1-4-1 of this Code. In addition, any and all licenses issued to the licensee
shall be subject to suspension or revocation as provided in this Code or by
law. (Ord. 2016-23, 6-2-2016)
3-4E-9: LICENSE REQUIRED FOR VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL OPERATORS:
   A.   No terminal operator or any person shall distribute, sell, lease out,
establish or supply any video gaming terminal in the Village without first
obtaining a terminal operator's license from the local liquor control
commission of the Village pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Each terminal operator is required to apply for licensure by completing
a form as approved by the local liquor commissioner and provided by the
Village. If the applicant is a partnership, all partners shall sign the
application. If the applicant is a corporation or club, the president and
secretary of the applicant business entity shall sign the application. If the
applicant is a limited liability company, the managers of the limited liability
company shall sign the application. If the members of the limited liability
company do not elect managers, the application shall be signed by the members
with interest representing the majority of the book value of the membership
interest unless the articles of organization or operating agreement otherwise
provide the manner in which members or managers may bind a limited liability
company. Each application shall contain at the least the following information
and statements:
      1.   The applicant's name, birthdate, social security number, driver's
license number, address, position and percentage of ownership in the business;
and the name, birthdate, social security number, driver's license number,
address, position and percentage of ownership in the business of every sole
owner, partner, corporate officer, director, manager of a limited liability
company, manager and any person or member of the limited liability company who
owns five percent (5%) or more of the shares of the applicant business entity
or parent corporations of the applicant business entry. The articles of
incorporation for any corporation shall be attached to the application.
      2.   A list of all premises in the Village and number of video gaming
terminals at each premises the terminal operator owns, has sold, leased out,
supplied or delivered for which a terminal operator's license is being sought.
      3.   The number of video gaming terminals for which permission is sought
under the license.
      4.   A copy of the terminal operator license from the State of Illinois.
      5.   Such other information required by the local liquor commission to
determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Each terminal operator licensed under this chapter shall maintain a
current list of all premises in the Village, in which the terminal operator
owns, has sold, leased out, supplied or delivered any video gaming terminal.
Such list shall be available for inspection by the village clerk or his or her
designee, on demand, during normal business hours.
   D.   No terminal operator or any other person shall own, sell, lease out,
supply or deliver any video gaming terminal to any premises within the Village
unless the owner or lessee of the premises shall also have applied for and
obtained a current valid Village license for the video gaming terminal.
   E.   Every terminal operator that is licensed to distribute, sell, lease
out, establish or supply any video gaming terminal in the Village pursuant to
this chapter shall pay a yearly license fee to the Village in the amount of one
thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250.00) for each video gaming terminal
distributed, sold, leased out, established or supplied in the Village.
   F.   Failure or neglect to pay the requisite fees in a timely manner shall
be cause for denial of issuance or non-renewal or revocation as the case may
be.
   G.   All terminal operator's licenses shall follow the term of license as
defined in 3-4E-5.
   H.   It shall be a prerequisite to any terminal operator's license from the
Village that the person distributing video gaming terminals have a valid
license from the State of Illinois as a terminal operator of video gaming
terminals. A loss or suspension of any such license by the State of Illinois
shall automatically result in the same status for the license issued hereunder,
without refund of any license fee.
   I.   It shall be noted that no terminal operator licenses issued may be
transferred to any other licensed establishment or terminal operator, as
defined herein.
   J.   Changes In Licensee:
      1.   Any changes in partnership, officers, directors, or persons holding
directly or beneficially more than five percent (5%) of the stock or ownership
interest, or managers of establishments licensed under this chapter, shall be
reported in writing to the local liquor control commissioner within ten (10)
days of the change. All new personnel shall meet all of the standards of this
chapter and must otherwise qualify to hold a liquor license. In addition, an
investigation fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) must be submitted.
      2.   When a license has been issued for a partnership and a change of
ownership occurs resulting in a partnership interest by one who is not eligible
to hold a terminal operator license, said license shall terminate.
      3.   When a license has been issued to a corporation and a change takes
place in officers, directors, managers or shareholders of more than five
percent (5%) of the stock resulting in the holding of such office, position or
such shares of stock by one who is not eligible for a license, said license
shall terminate.
      4.   When a license has been issued to an individual who is no longer
eligible for a license, said license shall terminate. (Ord. 2020-10, 3-5-2020)
CHAPTER 5
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
ARTICLE A. PEDDLERS
SECTION:
3-5A-1: Definitions
3-5A-2: License Required
3-5A-3: Application For License
3-5A-4: License Fee
3-5A-5: Issuance Or Denial Of License
3-5A-6: Duty Of Peddlers
3-5A-7: Uninvited Peddling Prohibited
3-5A-8: Time Limit And Distance Restrictions On Peddling
3-5A-9: Conditions Of License; Prohibitions
3-5A-10: Revocation Of License; Appeal
3-5A-11: Records Kept
3-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words as used in this article shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them unless a different meaning is required by the
context:
FOOD TRUCK: A readily movable, motorized wheeled vehicle, or a towed wheeled
vehicle, designed and equipped to serve food and which has obtained all
required state and local licenses for the operation of said food truck.
PEDDLER: Any person engaged in the act of peddling.
PEDDLING: The act of traveling by foot, motor vehicle or any other type of
conveyance, from place to place, from house to house or from street to street
carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares or merchandise, offering and
exposing the same for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to
purchasers or, without traveling from place to place, the selling or offering
for sale of goods, wares or merchandise from a motor vehicle or other type of
conveyance. Peddling shall not include "charitable solicitation" by "charitable
organizations" as those terms are defined in section
3-5B-1 of this chapter. Charitable solicitation shall be governed by the
provisions of article B of this chapter. Peddling shall also include the
operations of licensed food trucks as defined herein. (Ord. 84-59, §1; amd.
Ord. 2015-11, 3-5-2015)
3-5A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in peddling within the corporate
limits of the village without first having obtained a license from the village
as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 84-59, §1)
3-5A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license to engage in peddling shall be made upon a form
provided by the village. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the
information requested on the application as follows: (Ord. 84-59, §1)
   A.   The name, social security number, date of birth and address of the
applicant. (Ord. 94-32, 5-12-1994)
   B.   An address within the state where service of process may be had.
   C.   The age and physical description of each applicant.
   D.   The name and address of any person, corporation or organization by whom
the applicant is employed or represents and the length of time of such
employment or representation.
   E.   A description sufficient for identification of the goods, wares or
merchandise being peddled.
   F.   The date or approximate date of the latest previous application for a
license under this article, if any.
   G.   Whether a license issued to the applicant under this article has ever
been revoked.
   H.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a violation of any
provision of this article or the ordinances of any other Illinois municipality
regulating peddling.
   I.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state, or of a
federal law of the United States.
   J.   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of said vehicle, together
with the license registration number and the driver's license number of the
applicant. (Ord. 84-59, §1)
   K.   Any application for a peddler's license for food vending shall be
accompanied by a current certificate of inspection from the DuPage County
health department. No such license shall be issued unless such certificate is
supplied. In addition a certificate of inspection from the United States
department of agriculture and/or the Illinois department of agriculture shall
be submitted when any such food is beef, poultry or pork and a shellfish tag
from the Illinois department of public health shall be submitted when any such
food is seafood and such seafood is shellfish. (Ord. 94-32, 5-12-1994)
3-5A-4: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for a license required pursuant to this article shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per applicant. Said fee shall be paid at the time of
application and prior to the processing of said application. (Ord. 2009-37, 8-
6-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-52, 11-21-2024)
3-5A-5: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
All applications for a license to engage in peddling shall be submitted to the
village clerk and shall be verified under oath. The village clerk shall
acknowledge receipt of such application in writing within five (5) working days
of such receipt. The village clerk shall act upon said applications within ten
(10) days after its receipt. If the village clerk finds and determines that all
of the requirements of this article have been met, the village clerk shall
issue said license forthwith. (Ord. 84-59, §1)
The failure of an applicant to fulfill the requirements of this article shall
be the basis for the denial of a license by the village clerk. In addition, no
license to engage in peddling shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of a felony under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other
state, or under the federal laws of the United States within five (5) years of
the date of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted of a sex
offense as defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes, act 5, article 11, or any
equivalent law of any other state within five (5) years of the date of the
application; nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of any
provision of this article; nor to any person whose license issued hereunder has
previously been revoked as herein provided. In the event that any license to
engage in peddling is denied for failure to comply with the requirements set
forth hereinabove, the village clerk shall immediately notify the applicant in
writing of the reasons for the denial. If said application is not cured within
ten (10) days after the date on which the village clerk denies the issuance of
said license, said application shall be null and void. (Ord. 94-32, 5-12-1994)
3-5A-6: DUTY OF PEDDLERS:
It shall be the duty of every peddler, upon going onto any premises in the
village, to first examine the notice provided for in section
3-5B-6 of this chapter, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. For the purposes of this section, the word
"solicitors" shall be deemed to include the word "peddlers". If the notice
states ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN WOODRIDGE INVITED, then a peddler not
possessing a valid license as herein provided shall immediately and peacefully
depart from the premises; if the notice states NO SOLICITORS INVITED, then the
peddler, whether licensed or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from
the premises.
Any peddler who has gained entrance to any premises, whether invited or not,
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do
so by the occupant. (Ord. 84-59, §1)
3-5A-7: UNINVITED PEDDLING PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to remain upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door
or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of
the owner or occupant of such premises for the purpose of securing an audience
with the owner or occupant thereof and engage in "peddling" as herein defined
in defiance of the notice exhibited at the premises in accordance with the
provisions of section
3-5B-6 of this chapter as applied to peddlers by section
3-5A-6 of this article. (Ord. 84-59, §1)
3-5A-8: TIME LIMIT AND DISTANCE RESTRICTIONS ON PEDDLING:
   A.   No person shall engage in "peddling" as herein defined prior to nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of any day; provided,
that no person shall engage in peddling at any time on a Sunday or any state or
national holiday. Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to the
contrary, no person shall engage in the operation of a food truck prior to
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of any day and
persons engaged in the delivery of milk products on a regularly scheduled route
may make deliveries after six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on all regularly scheduled
delivery days.
   B.   No peddler shall peddle within five hundred feet (500') of the property
line of any elementary or secondary school. (Ord. 2015-11, 3-5-2015)
3-5A-9: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Items For Sale: It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any
goods, wares or merchandise other than those specified in the application.
   B.   Fraud: No person shall misrepresent his name, occupation, financial
condition, social condition or residence, and no person shall make or
perpetrate any other misstatement, deception or fraud in connection with any
peddling activity or in any application filed under this article.
   C.   Loud Noises; Sound Amplification: No licensee or anyone in his behalf
shall shout, make any outcry, blow any horn, ring a bell or use any other sound
device including any loudspeaking radio or amplifying system upon any of the
streets, alleys, parks or other public places of the village or upon any
private property in the village, where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or
produced therefrom capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, alleys,
parks or other public places, or upon any private premises, for the purpose of
attracting attention to any goods, wares or merchandise which said licensee is
offering for sale. (Ord. 84-59, §1)
   D.   Felons And Persons Convicted Of Sex Offenses As Peddlers: It shall be
unlawful for any person to be a peddler who has been convicted of a felony
under the laws of the state of Illinois, or any equivalent law of any other
state, or under the federal laws of the United States, within five (5) years of
the date of the application. It shall be unlawful for any person to be a
peddler who has been convicted of a sex offense as defined by 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes, act 5, article 11, or any equivalent law of any other state,
within five (5) years of the date of application.
   E.   Governmental Permits: It shall be unlawful to engage in peddling of any
beef, poultry, pork or seafood for human consumption in the village unless
applicant can produce evidence that any such beef, poultry, pork or seafood has
been inspected or tagged by the state and/or federal government and is safe for
human consumption. (Ord. 94-32, 5-12-1994)
3-5A-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL:
The village clerk shall revoke a license for violation of any of the
regulations listed in sections
3-5A-6 through
3-5A-9 of this article. Immediately upon such revocation, written notice
thereof shall be given by the village clerk to the holder of the license,
either personally or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.
Upon receipt of said notice of revocation, all peddling activity shall cease.
Any person aggrieved by said revocation shall have the right to appeal and have
a hearing before the mayor and board of trustees. Such appeal shall be taken by
filing with the village clerk a written statement under oath setting forth
specifically the grounds for appeal. The mayor and board of trustees shall
thereupon set the time and a place for the hearing on such appeal, and notice
of such hearing shall be given to the applicant in the same manner as provided
in section
3-1-14 of this title. The decision of the mayor and board of trustees on such
appeal shall be by a vote of a majority of all members then holding office and
shall be final. (Ord. 84-59, §1)
3-5A-11: RECORDS KEPT:
The village clerk shall cause to be kept in her office an accurate record of
every application received and acted upon together with all other information
and data pertaining thereto, all licenses issued under the provisions of this
article and a record of the denial of any and all applications. Applications
for licenses shall be numbered in consecutive order as filed, and every license
issued and any renewal thereof shall be identified with the duplicate number of
the applications upon which it was issued. (Ord. 84-59, §1)
ARTICLE B. SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-5B-1: Definitions
3-5B-2: Charitable Solicitation; Registration
3-5B-3: Commercial Solicitation; Registration
3-5B-4: Registration Fee
3-5B-5: Reserved
3-5B-6: Notice Regulating Soliciting
3-5B-7: Duty Of Solicitors
3-5B-8: Uninvited Soliciting Prohibited
3-5B-9: Time Limit For Soliciting
3-5B-10: Prohibitions
3-5B-11: Additional Regulations For Charitable Solicitations
3-5B-12: Reserved
3-5B-13: Records Kept
3-5B-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases as used in this article shall have the
following meanings, unless a different meaning is required by the context:
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS: Any benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, not for
profit, religious or eleemosynary person or one purporting to be such which
solicits and collects funds for charitable purposes.
CHARITABLE PURPOSE: Any charitable, benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, not
for profit, religious or eleemosynary purpose.
CHARITABLE SOLICITATION: Any request for the donation of money, property or
anything of value, or the pledge of a future donation of money, property or
anything of value; or the selling or offering for sale of any property, real or
personal, tangible or intangible, whether of value or not, including, but not
limited to, goods, books, pamphlets, tickets, publications or subscriptions to
publications or brochures, upon the representation, express or implied, that
the proceeds of such sale will be used for a "charitable purpose" as such term
is herein defined.
COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION: Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods,
wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever; seeking to obtain
subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals, etc.
PERSON: Any individual, organization, group, association, partnership,
corporation, trust or any combination thereof.
SOLICITATION: Any "charitable solicitation" or "commercial solicitation", as
those terms are defined herein.
SOLICITOR: Any person who engages in "charitable solicitation" or "commercial
solicitation", as those terms are defined herein. (Ord. 82-10, §1; amd. Ord.
2004-34, 6-17-2004)
3-5B-2: CHARITABLE SOLICITATION; REGISTRATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any charitable organization to engage in
charitable solicitation within the corporate limits of the village unless such
organization has registered with the village as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Any charitable organization engaging in charitable solicitation within
the corporate limits of the village shall register the following information
with the village clerk:
      1.   The name and address of the charitable organization and the name or
names under which it intends to engage in solicitation.
      2.   The names and addresses of all persons who will engage in charitable
solicitation in the village.
      3.   The dates and time of day such solicitations are to be made and the
geographic areas within the village wherein such solicitation shall be
conducted at a particular time and day.
      4.   A written statement of recent date issued by the attorney general of
Illinois that the charitable organization has complied with the provisions of
225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/1 et seq., or a written statement by the
attorney general of exemption under 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/3. (Ord.
2004-34, 6-17-2004)
3-5B-3: COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION; REGISTRATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in commercial
solicitation within the corporate limits of the village unless such person
shall have first obtained a certificate of registration from the village as
hereinafter provided.
   B.   Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a form
provided by the village. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the
following information and submit the following documentation:
      1.   The name and address of the person who intends to engage in
solicitation.
      2.   The name and address of the person or organization by whom the
applicant is employed or represents, and the length of time of such employment
or representation.
      3.   The name and address of the person in charge of solicitation in the
village and an address within the state of Illinois where service of process
may be had.
      4.   Applicant shall submit his or her driver's license number, social
security number and date of birth, as well as a physical description of
applicant.
      5.   The dates and time of day such solicitation is to be made and the
geographic area within the village wherein such solicitation shall be conducted
at a particular time and day.
      6.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for a certificate under this article, if any.
      7.   Whether a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this article has ever been revoked.
      8.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of this article or the ordinances of any other Illinois
municipality regulating solicitation.
      9.   A description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the solicitation which the applicant will engage in.
      10.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of
a felony under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state, or of a
law of the United States.
   C.   An application for a certificate of registration shall be submitted to
the village clerk and shall be verified under oath. The village clerk shall
acknowledge receipt of such application in writing within five (5) working days
of such receipt and shall act upon such application within ten (10) days after
its receipt. No application shall be effective until acted upon by the village
clerk. If the village clerk finds and determines that all the requirements of
this article have been met, the village clerk shall issue said certificate
forthwith.
   D.   The failure of an applicant to fulfill the requirements of this article
shall be a basis for the denial of a certificate of registration by the village
clerk. In addition, no certificate of registration shall be issued to any
person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the state of
Illinois or any other state or under the laws of the United States within five
(5) years of the date of the application; nor to any person who has been
convicted of a sex offense as defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes, act 5,
article 11 or any other equivalent law of any other state, within five (5)
years of the date of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted
of a violation of any of the provisions of this article; nor to any person
whose certificate of registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked
as herein provided. In the event that any certificate of registration is denied
for failure to comply with the requirements set forth hereinabove, the village
clerk shall immediately notify the applicant, in writing, of the reasons for
denial. If said application is not cured within ten (10) days after the date on
which the village clerk denies the issuance of said certificate of
registration, said application shall be null and void.
   E.   The village clerk shall revoke a certificate of registration for a
violation of any of the regulations listed in sections
3-5B-6 through
3-5B-10 of this article, inclusive. Immediately upon such revocation, written
notice thereof shall be given by the village clerk to the holder of the
certificate by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. Upon
receipt of said notice of revocation, all solicitation activity shall cease.
Any person aggrieved by said decision shall have the right to appeal and have a
hearing before the mayor and board of trustees. Such appeal shall be taken by
filing with the village clerk within ten (10) days after receipt of the notice
of revocation, a written statement under oath setting forth specifically the
grounds for appeal. The mayor and board of trustees shall thereupon set the
time and a place for the hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing
shall be given to the appellant in the same manner as provided in section
3-1-14 of this title. The decision of the mayor and board of trustees on such
appeal shall be by a vote of a majority of all members then holding office and
shall be final. (Ord. 2004-34, 6-17-2004)
3-5B-4: REGISTRATION FEE:
The fee for a certificate of registration required to engage in commercial
solicitation pursuant to this article shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per applicant. Said fee shall be paid at the time of application and prior to
the processing of said application. (Ord. 2009-37, 8-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-52,
11-21-2024)
3-5B-5: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2004-34, 6-17-2004)
3-5B-6: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING:
Any person owning or occupying any premises within the village may post a
notice indicating whether or not solicitors are invited at said premises. Any
such notice shall be given in the following manner:
A weatherproof card approximately three inches by four inches (3" x 4") in size
shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the premises
indicating the determination made by the owner or occupant, containing the
applicable words, as follows:
ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN WOODRIDGE INVITED
Or
NO SOLICITORS INVITED.
The letters shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") in height. For the purpose
of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the chief of the police
department to persons requesting same, at cost.
Such cards so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any solicitor of
the determination by the owner or occupant of the premises of the information
contained thereon. (Ord. 82-10, §1)
3-5B-7: DUTY OF SOLICITORS:
It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto any premises in the
village, to first examine the notice provided for in section
3-5B-6 of this article, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states: "ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN
WOODRIDGE INVITED", then the solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of
registration as herein provided shall immediately and peacefully depart from
the premises; if the notice states: "NO SOLICITORS INVITED", then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises. (Ord. 82-10, §1)
3-5B-8: UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to remain upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door,
or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of
the owner or occupant of such premises for the purpose of securing an audience
with the owner or occupant thereof, and engage in "solicitation" as herein
defined in defiance of the notice exhibited at the premises in accordance with
the provisions of section
3-5B-6 of this article.
Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any premises, whether invited or not,
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do
so by the occupant. (Ord. 82-10, §1)
3-5B-9: TIME LIMIT FOR SOLICITING:
   A.   No person shall engage in "solicitation" as herein defined prior to
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. of any day and
provided further that no person shall engage in commercial solicitation prior
to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of any day and
that no person shall engage in commercial solicitation at any time on a Sunday
or any state or national holiday.
   B.   No commercial solicitor shall solicit within five hundred feet (500')
of the property line of any elementary or secondary school. (Ord. 94-32, 5-12-
1994)
3-5B-10: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Felons And Persons Convicted Of Sex Offenses As Solicitors: It shall be
unlawful for any person to be a solicitor who has been convicted of a felony
under the laws of the state of Illinois, or any equivalent law of any other
state, or under the federal laws of the United States, within five (5) years of
the date of application. It shall be unlawful for any person to be a solicitor
who has been convicted of a sex offense as defined by 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes, act 5 article 11, or any equivalent law of any other state, within
five (5) years of the date of application. (Ord. 94-32, 5-12-1994)
   B.   Fraud: No person shall misrepresent his name, occupation, financial
condition, social condition or residence, and no person shall make or
perpetrate any other misstatement, deception or fraud, in connection with any
charitable or commercial solicitation, or in any application or report filed
under this article. (Ord. 82-10, §1)
3-5B-11: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS:
   A.   Financial Disclosure Required: The charitable organization shall
distribute to every person solicited a financial statement of said charitable
organization for the preceding twelve (12) months which shall include a balance
sheet and statement of income and expenses clearly setting forth the following:
gross receipts and gross income from all sources broken down into total
receipts and income from each separate solicitation project or source; cost of
administration; cost of solicitation; cost of programs designed to inform or
educate the public; funds or properties transferred out of the state of
Illinois, with explanation as to recipient and purpose; total net income amount
for each major purpose, charitable or otherwise. Statements shall be signed by
the president or other authorized officer or agent and shall be accompanied by
an opinion signed by an independent certified public accountant that said
financial statement fairly represents the financial operation of the charitable
organization.
A copy of the annual report to the attorney general of Illinois required by 225
Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/4, as amended, may be presented in lieu of the
aforementioned financial statement. For the purpose of financial statements,
the definitions and standards applicable to the annual report to the attorney
general as set forth in paragraph 460/4 shall be utilized.
In the event a charitable organization has not been established for a period of
twelve (12) months, a copy of the registration statement filed with the
attorney general of Illinois pursuant to 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/2,
as amended, may be utilized. (Ord. 82-10, §1)
   B.   Solicitation Of Charitable Contributions On Highways: Solicitation of
charitable contributions on highways within the village shall be permitted;
provided, however, that all such activity shall be conducted in strict
conformity with and shall be limited to that activity permitted under the
provisions of the Illinois vehicle code paragraph 5/11-1006(c) 1  and this
code. (Ord. 80-6, §2)
In order to, on an ongoing basis, evaluate the safety of solicitors and the
safety of motorists, and to otherwise provide for the orderly flow of traffic,
the village may authorize charitable solicitation on highways to take place
during such times as the village may approve, notwithstanding any time
limitations set forth in section
3-5B-9 of this article to the contrary. (Ord. 2011-17, 4-28-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS.
3-5B-12: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2004-34, 6-17-2004)
3-5B-13: RECORDS KEPT:
The village clerk shall cause to be kept in her office an accurate record of
every application received and acted upon together with all other information
and data pertaining thereto, all certificates of registration issued under the
provisions of this article, and a record of the denial of any and all
applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued and any renewal thereof shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued. (Ord. 82-10, §1)
CHAPTER 6
FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Licensing Requirements
3-6-2: Garbage Removal Required
3-6-1: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
The Village Clerk shall not issue any license or permit to a retail food
establishment unless the applicant has in his possession evidence of a valid
license or permit from the County Board of Health issued to said retail food
establishment. It shall be a prerequisite to the continuance to the expiration
date of the license or permit issued by the Village that the licensee of said
retail food establishment continues to hold a valid license or permit from the
County Board of Health during the term of the license or permit issued to said
retail food establishment by the Village. (1976 Code §9-8)
3-6-2: GARBAGE REMOVAL REQUIRED:
Every person owning or controlling any hotel, restaurant, cafe or retail food
establishment where more than thirty two (32) gallons of refuse is normally
produced weekly shall cause all garbage to be placed in sanitary refuse
containers and shall cause all substances deposited in such containers to be
removed daily from his premises and to be disposed of at his own expense. 1
(1976 Code §8-88)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 4, Chapter 2 of this Code for garbage and refuse regulations.
CHAPTER 7
BUS SERVICE
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: License Required; Exceptions
3-7-3: Application for License
3-7-4: License Fees; Vehicle Tags
3-7-5: Investigation of Applicant; Issuance of License
3-7-6: Insurance Requirements
3-7-7: Bus Service Operation
3-7-8: Bus Routes
3-7-9: Right of Village to Maintain Public Ways
3-7-10: Vehicle Inspections
3-7-11: Suspension or Revocation of License
3-7-12: Police Power of Village
3-7-13: Nonliability of Village
3-7-14: Penalty
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following terms are used in this Chapter, they shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them as follows:
BUS: Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying more
than ten (10) passengers and used for the transportation of persons, and every
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation
of persons for compensation.
COMMUTER VAN: A motor vehicle designed for the transportation of not less than
twelve (12) nor more than sixteen (16) passengers when such transportation is
incidental to another purpose of the driver who is not engaged in the
transportation of persons as a business, and providing further that such motor
vehicle is owned, leased for or by a company or an employee organization and
operated on a nonprofit basis with the primary purpose of transporting
employees of the company between the employees' homes and the company's place
of business or a public transportation station and in which the operating,
administrative, maintenance and reasonable depreciation costs are paid
principally by the persons utilizing the commuter van.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership or corporation.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle, except as provided in the following paragraph,
owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled in any such entity as students in
grade twelve (12) or below in connection with any activity of the entity. A
school operated by a religious institution or a public or private nursery,
primary or secondary school.
This definition does not include the following:
   A.   A bus operated by a public utility, Municipal corporation or common
carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of persons
when the bus is on a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare-paying persons or furnishing charter service for the transportation of
groups on field trips or other special trips, or in connection with special
events or for shuttle service between attendance centers or other educational
facilities and not over a regular or customary scheduled school bus route;
   B.   A motor vehicle of the first division as defined by 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes, 5/1-171.01.
TRANSPORTATION OF PERSONS: Any service in connection with the receipt, carriage
and delivery of the person transported and his baggage, and all facilities used
or necessary to be used in connection with the safety, comfort and convenience
of the person transported. (1976 Code §6-1)
3-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of operating a scheduled bus
service for the transportation of persons within the corporate limits of the
Village without first having secured a license therefor.
Notwithstanding any language contained in this Section to the contrary, no
license shall be required for the following:
   A.   The business of operating a scheduled school bus service within the
corporate limits of the Village.
   B.   The business of operating a scheduled bus service for the
transportation of persons within the corporate limits of the Village, where
such bus service is otherwise being regulated by the Illinois Commerce
Commission and/or the Interstate Commerce Commission. (1976 Code §6-2)
3-7-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for all licenses to operate a bus service for the transportation
of persons shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk. Each application
shall contain:
   A.   Name and address of applicant.
      1.   If applicant is a partnership, list names and addresses of all
partners.
      2.   If applicant is a corporation, give the names and addresses of the
registered agent and all officers, directors and stockholders.
      3.   If applicant is a wholly owned subsidiary of another partnership or
corporation, give the information listed in either paragraph 1 or 2 above for
the parent partnership or corporation.
   B.   A list of names and addresses of all governmental units and all
agencies or authorities organized thereunder that license and/or franchise the
applicant for the operation of a bus service for the transportation of persons.
   C.   A brief summary of the qualifications the applicant feels qualify him
for a license to operate a bus service for the transportation of persons.
   D.   A copy of the applicant's most recent financial statements, including,
but not limited to, balance sheet, profit and loss statement and statement of
changes in financial condition, for the most recent fiscal year available.
   E.   A listing of fares, routes, schedules and the location of all proposed
boarding locations and stops under which the applicant proposes to operate.
   F.   A list of the type of equipment which the applicant proposes to utilize
during the term of the license, which shall consist of such full and complete
description or information as the Clerk may require.
Each application shall contain such additional information as may be needed for
the proper guidance of the Village officials in the issuing of the license. All
applications shall be signed by the applicant or his duly authorized
representative and verified by oath or affidavit. (1976 Code §6-3)
3-7-4: LICENSE FEES; VEHICLE TAGS:
The annual fee, payable in advance, for such licenses shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00) plus twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each bus operated.
Whenever the number of buses so operated shall be increased during the license
year, the licensee shall notify the Clerk of such change and shall pay the
additional fee, prorated, for the balance of the license year.
Such fee shall be in lieu of any other vehicle fee required by this Code and
the Village Clerk shall issue suitable tags or stickers for the number of buses
covered by each license. Such tag or sticker shall be displayed in the right
front windshield on each bus while it is in use.
The licensee shall notify the Clerk of the motor number and State license
number of each bus operated and of the corresponding Village tag or sticker
number. (1976 Code §6-4)
3-7-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license to engage in the business of
operating a bus service for the transportation of persons, the Chief of Police
may cause such investigation or inspections to be made in conformance with
subsections
3-1-5A and B and Section
3-1-6 of this Code, as the Chief of Police shall deem necessary or appropriate.
(1976 Code §6-5)
All licenses shall be issued in conformance with subsections
3-1-5A and B and Section
3-1-6 of this Title. (1976 Code §6-6)
3-7-6: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Any licensee operating a bus transportation service under this Chapter shall
indemnify, protect and save harmless the Village, its officers, employees and
agents, from and against liability, losses, physical damage to property and
bodily injury or death to persons, including payments made under any workmen's
compensation law, which may arise out of the licensee's operation of its bus
transportation service within or without the limits of the Village. Each
licensee shall further indemnify and hold harmless the Village from and against
any liability or losses sustained as a direct or indirect result of the action
of the licensee's agents or employees or in any way arising out of the granting
of this license. Each licensee shall carry insurance in an insurance company
approved by the Village, said insurance company having a best reporting service
of AAA or better, said insurance to be utilized to protect the licensee and the
Village as their interest may appear from and against all claims, demands,
actions, judgments, costs, expenses and liabilities including, without
limitation, attorney's fees which may arise or result directly or indirectly
from or by reason of any such liability, loss, injury or damage. In addition,
each licensee shall secure said indemnity by obtaining contract insurance. Said
insurance policy shall be in sufficient funds to insure licensee and the
Village, and in any event, said insurance shall be sufficient to insure against
liability to persons and property (including insurance against personal injury,
loss of life and loss of or destruction of property) in the case of each
vehicle operated by a licensee or used in providing the services in an amount
not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per person; one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence; and umbrella liability
insurance coverage of not less than two million dollars ($2,000,000.00). Said
policy shall contain a provision requiring the insured to notify the Village
not less than ten (10) days prior to cancellation or change of any policy. The
Village, its officers, officials, agents and employees shall appear as
additional named insureds under each policy. Within ten (10) days after the
date thereof, licensee shall provide the Village with certificates of insurance
for each policy. Each licensee shall also carry such insurance as may be
necessary to protect it and the Village from all claims under the workmen's
compensation laws in effect that may be applicable to the licensee. All
insurance required by this Chapter shall be and remain in full force and effect
for the entire period of any license. The policies of insurance, or a certified
copy or copies thereof, shall be approved by the Village legal counsel of the
Village and shall be deposited with and kept on file by the Village Clerk.
(1976 Code §6-14)
3-7-7: BUS SERVICE OPERATION:
   A.   Regulation of Operators: No person shall operate any bus unless such
person has a valid Illinois drivers license with a proper classification to
permit the operation of such vehicle. (1976 Code §6-10)
   B.   Location of Stops: 1  The location of all bus stops shall be subject to
regulation and approval by the Chief of Police. (1976 Code §6-9)
   C.   Exemption from Certain Traffic Regulations: Unless otherwise provided
by the Village, operations conducted under the provisions of this Chapter shall
be exempt from compliance with Village vehicle or axle weight restrictions on
Village streets. 2  However, each operator of licensee's vehicle shall observe
all speed restrictions and other traffic regulations imposed by the Village,
the Counties of DuPage and/or Will and the State of Illinois regulating traffic
on any street or highway within the Village. 3  (1976 Code §6-11; 1991 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  6-5-6-1A of this Code.
2 2. See Section
  6-8A-4 of this Code.
3 3. See Title 6 of this Code for traffic regulations.
3-7-8: BUS ROUTES:
   A.   Bus Routes to be Designated: The issuance of a license shall be deemed
to be approval of those routes specified in the application for license. Upon
the issuance of a license under this Chapter, the licensee shall file with the
Village Clerk and the Chief of Police a map or diagram showing the routes
served. Each street, road or highway shall be identified and any public
transportation service within two (2) miles of the route(s) shall be shown or
mentioned.
   B.   Route Changes:
      1.   Permanent Route Changes: Should any licensee desire to make any
changes in its routes, the licensee shall first submit a revised route plan to
the office of the Village Administrator and receive his approval prior to
placing said revised route plan into effect. Residents, carriers or other
operators and interested individuals shall be given an opportunity to voice
approval or objections to the proposed route changes. (1976 Code §6-8)
      2.   Emergency Route Changes: In extraordinary circumstances and on a
temporary basis, a licensee may deviate from its authorized routes without
formal approval of a route change. Deviations, however, shall be limited to:
         a.   A temporary closing of a road by virtue of construction, paving
or weather conditions.
         b.   The temporary establishment of one-way traffic on any road.
In the event of a temporary deviation of a route, a licensee shall make every
effort to notify passengers of the change and to resume the regular route
operations at the earliest practicable moment. In the event the temporary route
change is expected to last in excess of twenty four (24) hours, the licensee
shall notify the office of the Village Administrator by the next business day
of said temporary route changes and the estimated length of time of said
temporary route changes.
Whenever any licensee has cause to believe that any temporary route change will
become permanent, the licensee shall apply for a permanent route change as
specified in paragraph B1 above. (1976 Code §6-13)
3-7-9: RIGHT OF VILLAGE TO MAINTAIN PUBLIC WAYS:
The Village reserves the right to maintain the streets, alleys, public ways and
facilities located within its corporate limits in such a manner as the Village
shall, in its exclusive discretion, determine. The Village shall not be liable
to any licensee for any interruption in service or for interference with the
operations of any licensee's bus transportation system arising in any manner,
directly or indirectly, out of the use or maintenance by the Village of any
streets, alleys, public ways and facilities located within the corporate limits
of the Village. (1976 Code §6-12)
3-7-10: VEHICLE INSPECTIONS:
The Village shall have the right to inspect each and every vehicle operated by
a licensee under the provisions of this Chapter and the Chief of Police, or his
designate ("chief"), shall have the right to inspect all vehicles so operated,
either semi-annually or more frequently as the Chief, in his sole discretion,
shall deem necessary. Any vehicle not in compliance with the applicable safety
standards may be ordered removed from service by the Chief until such time as
appropriate action is taken to render the vehicle in a safe condition and in
compliance with those standards. Such inspections, whether made or not, shall
not operate to relieve any licensee of any responsibility, obligation or
liability assumed under the license granted by this Chapter.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section, each
vehicle operated under the provisions of this Chapter shall be regularly
inspected as required under the rules and regulations of the Illinois
Department of Transportation or other statutory requirements of the State of
Illinois for commercial passenger carrying vehicles, and the licensee shall
provide the Chief of Police with a copy of each report of inspection on every
vehicle operated on routes within the Village. (1976 Code §6-7)
3-7-11: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license may be suspended or revoked as provided for in Section
3-1-14 of this Title. All appeals shall be in accordance with Section
3-1-15 of this Title. (1976 Code §6-16)
3-7-12: POLICE POWER OF VILLAGE:
All licensees shall at all times during the license period be subject to the
lawful exercise of the police power of the Village and to such reasonable
regulations as the Village shall provide. (1976 Code §6-15)
3-7-13: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE:
The Village, its officers, agents and employees assume no responsibility or
liability for the consequences of any operations conducted under any license
granted by this Chapter. (1976 Code §6-7)
3-7-14: PENALTY:
Any person who shall be convicted of violating any provision of this Chapter
shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the
maximum amount permitted by Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1976
Code §6-17; amd. Ord. 96-26, 6-13-1996)
CHAPTER 8
TOBACCO DEALERS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Legislative Findings And Declaration
3-8-2: Definitions
3-8-3: License
3-8-4: Application For License; Fee
3-8-5: Location Restrictions
3-8-6: Prohibitions Regarding Underage Persons
3-8-7: Certain Free Distributions Prohibited
3-8-8: Vending Machines; Locking Devices
3-8-9: Administration And Enforcement
3-8-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND DECLARATION:
The Mayor and Board of Trustees expressly find and declare that:
   A.   Cigarette smoking is dangerous to human health.
   B.   There exists substantial scientific evidence that the use of tobacco
products causes cancer, heart disease and various other medical disorders.
   C.   The Surgeon General of the United States has declared that nicotine
addiction from tobacco is similar to addiction to cocaine, and is the most
widespread example of drug dependence in this country.
   D.   The Director of the National Institute On Drug Abuse concluded that the
majority of the 320,000 Americans who die each year from cigarette smoking
became addicted to nicotine as adolescents before the age of legal consent.
   E.   The National Institute On Drug Abuse found that cigarette smoking
precedes and may be predictive of adolescent illicit drug use.
   F.   The present legislative scheme of prohibiting sales of tobacco products
to persons under the age of twenty-one (21) has proven ineffective in
preventing such persons from using tobacco products.
   G.   The enactment of this chapter directly pertains to and is in
furtherance of the health, welfare and safety of the residents of the Village,
particularly those residents under twenty-one (21) years of age. (Ord. 89-15,
3-23-1989, eff. 5-1-1989; amd. Ord. 2020-4, 2-6-2020)
3-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping
tobacco. This shall also include e-cigarettes, vaping devices and any
substance, with or without nicotine, intended to be aerosolized or vaporized
during the use of the device.
TOBACCO RETAILER: A retail facility in which greater than fifty percent (50%)
of all sales are for any product containing or made from tobacco, nicotine,
alternative nicotine products, electronic cigarettes, and other inhalation
devices intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means.
Tobacco retail includes any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product,
whether or not sold separately, and does not include any onsite consumption.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic self-service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
tobacco products. (Ord. 89-15, 3-23-1989, eff. 5-1-1989; amd. Ord. 2019-4, 5-
16-2019; Ord. 2024-13, 3-7-2024)
3-8-3: LICENSE:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, at
retail, to give away, deliver or to keep with the intention of selling at
retail, giving away or delivering tobacco products within the Village without
having first obtained a tobacco dealer's license therefor pursuant to this
chapter. Such license shall be in addition to any other license required by
this Code.
   B.   Exception: No license shall be issued to any applicant for a tobacco
dealer's license if such applicant is a debtor to the Village. For the purposes
of this section, a "debtor" is defined as "any person, business, organization,
or government that has an outstanding financial or legal obligation to the
Village of Woodridge". (Ord. 2017-7, 3-16-2017)
3-8-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
Application for a license hereunder shall be made, in writing, to the Village
Clerk and shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of chapter 1 of
this title.
The license fee for a tobacco dealer's license shall be as set forth in
subsection 3-1A-3C11 of this title. (Ord. 89-15, 3-23-1989, eff. 5-1-1989)
3-8-5: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No tobacco dealer's license shall be issued for the sale, offering to
sell, giving away or delivery of tobacco products within one hundred feet
(100') of any school other than an institution of higher learning, provided
that this prohibition shall not apply to the renewal of a tobacco dealer's
license on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any school, where the
school has been established within such one hundred feet (100') since the
issuance of the original license.
   B.   No tobacco dealer's license may be issued to a tobacco retailer if the
establishment is less than two thousand six hundred forty (2,640) feet from
another licensed tobacco retailer. The distance measurement shall be taken from
property line to property line. In the case where existing tobacco retailers do
not meet the separation distance requirement; any sale, transfer, or assignment
of more than fifty (50%) percent of ownership of a business or partnership
shall terminate said license. In the event that such license is held in the
name of a corporation, the sale, transfer or assignment of fifty (50%) percent
of the stock shall terminate the license. For purposes of this section, whether
the sale, transfer or assignment of fifty percent (50%) or more of a business
interest occurs in one (1) or more transactions is not relevant to the
termination of the license. (Ord. 2014-46, 8-14-2014; amd. Ord. 2024-13, 3-7-
2024)
3-8-6: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING UNDERAGE PERSONS:
It shall be unlawful:
   A.   Sales To: For any person, including any licensee, to sell, offer for
sale, give away or deliver tobacco products to any person under the age of
twenty-one (21) years.
      Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided for herein
shall be posted by every licensee at or near every display of tobacco products
and on or upon every vending machine which offers tobacco products for sale.
Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
      THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW.
   The text of such signs shall be in red letters on a white background; said
letters to be at least one inch (1") high.
   B.   Sale By: For any licensee or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to engage, employ or permit
any person under eighteen (18) years of age to sell tobacco products in any
licensed premises.
   C.   Purchase: For any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to
purchase tobacco products or to misrepresent his identity or age or to use any
false or altered identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products.
   D.   Possession: For any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
possess any tobacco products; provided, that the possession by a person under
the age of eighteen (18) years under the direct supervision of the parent or
guardian of such person in the privacy of the parent's or guardian's home shall
not be prohibited. (Ord. 89-15, 3-23-1989, eff. 5-1-1989)
   E.   Penalties Generally: Any person violating any provision of this section
shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than the
maximum amount permitted by section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. In
addition to any other penalty, a licensee convicted of violating any provision
of this section may be subject to having his license revoked, suspended or not
renewed by the Mayor. (Ord. 95-64, 12-14-1995; amd. Ord. 96-26, 6-13-1996; Ord.
2020-4, 2-6-2020)
3-8-7: CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person in the business of selling
or otherwise distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products, or any
employee or agent of any such licensee or person, in the course of such
licensee's or person's business, to distribute, give away or deliver tobacco
products free of charge to any person on any right-of-way, park, playground or
other property owned by the Village, any school district, any park district or
any public library. (Ord. 89-15, 3-23-1989, eff. 5-1-1989)
3-8-8: VENDING MACHINES; LOCKING DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale, give away,
deliver or to keep with the intention of selling, giving away or delivering
tobacco products by use of a vending machine unless such vending machine is
equipped with a manual, electric or electronic locking device controlled by the
licensee so as to prevent its operation by persons under the age of twenty-one
(21) years.
Any premises where access by persons under the age of twenty-one (21) years is
prohibited by law or premises where the public is generally not permitted and
where vending machines are strictly for the use of employees of the business
located at such premises shall be exempt from the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 89-15, 3-23-1989, eff. 5-1-1989; amd. Ord. 2020-4, 2-6-2020)
3-8-9: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Administration: The Mayor shall be charged with the administration of
this chapter. (Ord. 89-15, 3-23-1989, eff. 5-1-1989)
   B.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: The Mayor may suspend or revoke
any license issued under the provisions of this chapter if he determines that
the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter, any valid
provision of this Code or any State law. (Ord. 98-58, 11-12-1998)
   C.   Fine In Lieu Of Suspension Or Revocation: In lieu of suspension or
revocation of a license, the Mayor may, instead, levy a fine on the licensee.
The fine imposed shall not exceed the maximum amount permitted by section
1-4-1 of this Code for each violation. Each day on which a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 89-15, 3-23-1989, eff. 5-1-1989;
amd. Ord. 96-26, 6-13-1996)
   D.   Hearing; Decisions; Fees:
      1.   Notice Of Hearing: No such license shall be suspended or revoked and
no licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the Mayor with a
seven (7) day written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an
opportunity to appear and defend against the charges contained in such notice.
The seven (7) day notice provisions shall begin the day following delivery by
certified mail or by personal service.
      2.   Mayor's Decision: The Mayor shall, within seven (7) days after such
hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license should be revoked
or suspended, or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason for such
determination in a written order and either the amount of the fine, the period
of suspension or that the license has been revoked and serve a copy of such
order within the seven (7) days upon the licensee.
      3.   Fees: Any licensee determined by the Mayor to have violated any of
the provisions of this chapter shall pay to the Village the costs of the
hearing before the Mayor on such violation. The Mayor shall determine the costs
incurred by the Village for said hearing, including, but not limited to, court
reporter fees, the costs of transcripts or records, attorney fees, the cost of
preparing and mailing notices and orders and all other miscellaneous expenses
incurred by the Village or such lesser sum as the Mayor may allow.
The licensee shall pay said costs to the Village within thirty (30) days of
notification of the costs by the Mayor. Failure to pay said costs within thirty
(30) days of notification is a violation of this chapter and may be cause for
license suspension or revocation or the levy of a fine.
   E.   Use Of Premises After License Revocation: When any license shall have
been revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted to said licensee for
the period of six (6) months thereafter for the conduct of the business of
selling "tobacco products", as defined in section
3-8-2 of this chapter, in the premises described in such revoked license.
   F.   Responsibility Of Licensee For Agents And Employees: Every act or
omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of
any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such licensee and such
licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if such act or omission had
been done or omitted by the licensee personally. (Ord. 89-15, 3-23-1989, eff.
5-1-1989)
CHAPTER 9
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL ORDINANCE
ARTICLE A. MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS
SECTION:
3-9A-1: Definitions
3-9A-2: License Required
3-9A-3: License Application
3-9A-4: License Term
3-9A-5: License Fees
3-9A-6: Crime Free Housing Seminar
3-9A-7: Inspections
3-9A-8: License Location
3-9A-9: License Updated Upon Sale
3-9A-10: Closing, Canceling, Certain Transfers
3-9A-11: Inspection Upon Sale
3-9A-12: Additional Requirements
3-9A-13: Inspections; Violations; Suspension And Revocation Of License
3-9A-14: Tenant Responsibility
3-9A-15: Notice For Inspection; Search Warrants
3-9A-16: Owner Liability For Acts And Omissions
3-9A-17: Nonrenewal Of License
3-9A-18: Enforcement Costs
3-9A-19: Penalty
3-9A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of disrepair
which renders the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or any
motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven (7)
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
COMMON AREAS (EXTERIOR): The private roads and streets and private sidewalks
adjacent thereto, landscaping, detention ponds, utility facilities, trash
enclosures, playground equipment, swimming pools, tennis courts, basketball
courts or any other recreational facilities, trail areas, parking areas,
private drives, detached garages, lighting fixtures, signage, mailboxes, street
benches, entrance monuments, perimeter fencing and such other improvements or
structures from time to time or at any time located or constructed on a common
area. Such common areas may serve, in whole or in part, one or more multiple-
family dwellings.
COMMON AREAS (INTERIOR): Any portion or part thereof of a multiple-family
dwelling having communal areas (laundry, furnace, storage rooms, hallways,
stairways, meeting rooms) and all other areas located within a dwelling,
outside of a dwelling unit. Interior common areas shall also include stoops,
entrance doors, roofs, attics, balconies, lighting fixtures, signage, railings,
patios, storage areas, garages, exterior building surfaces, gutters and
downspouts and any other areas of a multiple-family dwelling or building to
which the owner is directly responsible for the proper maintenance thereof.
DWELLING UNIT: Any rooms or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
FOOT-CANDLE: The quantity of light reaching a surface. It is equal of the
number of lumens divided by the square footage of the surface the lumens are
covering, i.e., one lumen covering one square foot equals one foot-candle.
LUMEN: The quantity of light emitted by a light source.
MANAGING AGENT: Any person or firm, acting for another, with authority to rent,
manage and/or make expenditures.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY BUILDING: A dwelling that is designed and built as a group of
individual dwelling units, in which units may or may not touch by virtue of
common or party walls and floors and ceilings, and which contains three (3) or
more dwelling units per building. Each building that is separated from another
building by virtue of a firewall or fire separation assembly, and has its own
address, shall be considered a separate building. When a condominium
association, homeowners' association or other legal entity has the charge, care
or control of any common area which serves, in whole or in part, one or more
multiple-family dwelling units not owned by such condominium association,
homeowners' association or other legal entity, then in that event such common
area shall be deemed to be a multiple-family dwelling for purposes of this
chapter.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A dwelling unit in a multiple-family building.
OPERATOR: Any person who has charge, care, control or management of a multiple-
family dwelling or building, or part thereof, in which dwelling units or
rooming units are let.
OWNER: Any person who alone, jointly or severally with others has legal title
to any multiple-family dwelling, or dwelling unit, with or without accompanying
actual possession thereof; or who has charge, care or control of any multiple-
family dwelling or dwelling unit, as owner, or other person; or is an executor,
administrator, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner; is a mortgagee
in possession, or is a senior officer or a trustee of the association of unit
owners of a condominium or homeowners' association. Any person thus
representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of
this chapter and the rules and regulations pursuant thereto, to the same extent
as if he were the owner. Owner shall also mean any condominium association,
homeowners' association or other legal entity having the charge, care or
control of any common area which serves in whole or in part one or more
multiple-family dwellings.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity.
SINGLE-FAMILY RENTAL DWELLING: A single-family home or townhouse that is not
owner occupied and is subject to a rental lease.
TENANT: Any occupant of a multiple-family dwelling and/or a single-family
rental dwelling as designated by the rental lease. (Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012)
3-9A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   No person shall operate three (3) or more multiple-family dwellings within
the Village without having first obtained a license therefor. Licenses shall be
issued by the Village Administrator or his/her designee in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. When any common area satisfies the definition of a
"multiple-family building" as set forth in section
3-9A-1 of this article then such event shall require the managing agent and/or
owner of such area to obtain a license therefor.
   Any license in effect prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be
valid through its expiration date.
(Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9A-3: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   No such license shall be issued except upon written application filed with
the Village Administrator or his/her designee. A complete application for a
license shall be filed by January 1 each year. Said application shall be signed
by the legal titleholder to the multiple- family dwelling. Application forms
may be obtained from the Village Administrator or his/her designee and shall
contain such information as the Village Clerk may, from time to time, require,
including, but not limited to: (Ord. 2017-51, 9-21-2017)
   A.   Name, address, birth date, work and home telephone numbers of each
owner of the multiple-family dwelling. When the owner is a land trust, the
application shall include the name and address of each person(s) holding a
beneficial interest and/or power of direction therein.
   B.   Name, address, birth date, work and home telephone numbers of any
person appointed as managing agent of the multiple-family dwelling. If the
managing agent is other than a natural person, the above information shall also
be provided for that employee of the managing agent specifically assigned to
the multiple-family dwelling.
   C.   A copy of the written management agreement between the owner and the
managing agent shall be attached to the application. If no written agreement
exists, the owner and managing agent shall attach an executed statement setting
forth the terms of the managing agent's authority to rent, manage, and make
expenditures with respect to the multiple-family dwelling.
   D.   Name, address, work and home telephone numbers of the janitor(s) or
engineer(s) in charge of the maintenance of the multiple-family dwelling and
its heating, cooling, plumbing and electrical systems. Attached to the
application shall be a statement of the janitor's or engineer's authority to
maintain and repair the multiple-family dwelling and its systems, including
emergency repairs.
   E.   Name, address, birth date, work and home telephone numbers of any
person(s) (other than those listed pursuant to subsections A, B and D of this
section), if any, having authority to make any decision with respect to the
management and/or maintenance of the multiple-family dwelling. Attached to the
application shall be a statement of such person's authority to manage, lease
and/or maintain the multiple-family dwelling.
   F.   The name, address and telephone number of each company that services
the fire alarm systems and/or elevator(s).
   G.   A copy of a plan evidencing what improvements, renovation(s) and/or
replacements are budgeted for the license year.
   H.   An agreement to pay all enforcement costs provided for by section
3-9A-18 of this article.
   I.   A copy of the most recent test results required under subsection
3-9A-12D of this article.
(Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9A-4: LICENSE TERM:
Each license granted hereunder shall be an annual license, the term of which
shall commence on January 1 of a given year and shall terminate on December 31
of the same year. (Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012)
3-9A-5: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a license fee.
The license fee shall be determined by the following schedule:
 
Number Of Units Owned License Fee
1 - 100               $ 40.00 per unit
101 - 200             26.00 per unit
201 - or more         20.00 per unit
Common area only      250.00
 
   B.   If a completed license application is not submitted together with the
required license fee prior to January 31 in any given year, the license fee
shall be increased by twenty percent (20%).
   C.   If the ownership of a building changes during the license year, the
license fee for the new owner shall be determined on a prorated basis. No
refund of any license fee paid shall be made.
   D.   Notwithstanding any provisions contained hereinabove to the contrary,
the owner of a multiple-family building containing more than one hundred (100)
dwelling units may elect to pay the license fee in two (2) installments. The
first installment shall be in the amount of fifty percent (50%) of the
applicable license fee and shall be paid at the time of application for a
license hereunder. The balance of the applicable license fee shall be paid on
or before July 1 of the license year. In the event the balance of the
applicable license fee is not paid on or before July 1 of the license year, the
license shall be deemed to have terminated on July 2 of the license year,
without further action by the Village.
   E.   Notwithstanding any provision contained hereunder to the contrary, no
license shall be renewed until such time as all costs provided for by section
3-9A-18 of this article have been paid. (Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012; amd. Ord.
2017-51, 9-21-2017; Ord. 2024-45, 8-1-2024)
3-9A-6: CRIME FREE HOUSING SEMINAR:
   A.   Every managing agent and/or owner holding a multiple-family rental
license and all persons administering, managing, or controlling the operation
of any rental dwelling unit must attend a four (4) hour crime free housing
seminar, administered by the Woodridge police department. Each such person need
only attend a seminar once. In the event a village of Woodridge crime free
housing seminar is not available, such persons may attend a crime free housing
seminar provided by another municipality, if preapproved by the building
commissioner.
   B.   All persons set forth in subsection A of this section shall comply with
this section within two (2) years after the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012)
3-9A-7: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: Every multiple-family building shall be owned,
operated and maintained in full compliance with all applicable ordinances,
codes and regulations of the village.
      1.   The first license applied for with respect to any multiple-family
dwelling under this chapter shall not be issued to any owner for any multiple-
family dwelling, in the event, at the time of application:
         a.   An existing inspection report identifies any code violation which
has not been corrected, and the time for correction of said violation as noted
in such inspection report has expired; or
         b.   Litigation is pending with respect to code violations at such
multiple-family dwelling.
      2.   Thereafter, the village shall conduct an annual inspection of every
multiple-family building during the license year to determine if said multiple-
family building is in full compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes and
regulations of the village.
   B.   Scope Of Inspections: Any inspections conducted pursuant to this
section shall include the interior and exterior common areas. The inspection
shall include the interior of the dwelling units according to the following
schedule:
      1.   In buildings containing up to and including eight (8) dwelling
units, a minimum of two (2) dwelling units in each building;
      2.   In buildings containing from nine (9) to and including eighteen (18)
dwelling units, a minimum of four (4) dwelling units in each building;
      3.   In buildings containing more than eighteen (18) dwelling units, a
minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the dwelling units in each building.
      4.   Owners who own three (3) or more units within the village
boundaries, a minimum of one unit or twenty percent (20%), whichever is
greater, of the total number dwelling units owned.
   C.   Common Areas Classified As Multiple-Family Dwellings:
      1.   Where any common area is defined by this chapter as a multiple-
family dwelling, no multiple-family dwelling served in whole or in part by such
common area shall be deemed to be in compliance with this chapter unless and
until such common area is in full compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Where any multiple-family dwelling is served in whole or in part by
any common area defined by this chapter as a multiple-family dwelling, no such
common area shall be deemed to be in compliance with this chapter unless and
until all multiple-family dwellings served in whole or in part by such common
area are in full compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-69, 12-19-2024; Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-
2025)
3-9A-8: LICENSE LOCATION:
A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall only be valid with respect to
all specific multiple-family dwelling units owned and listed on the license
application. (Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012)
3-9A-9: LICENSE UPDATED UPON SALE:
Upon the sale or transfer of any multiple-family dwelling unit, said unit shall
be deemed stricken from any license issued pursuant to this chapter. Such
license shall remain valid for remaining units set forth on said license. This
is not applicable upon any court controlled transfer. (Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012)
3-9A-10: CLOSING, CANCELING, CERTAIN TRANSFERS:
   A.   Transfer With Respect To Certain Parties: Whenever there is a change in
the managing agent, owner, or other responsible party of a multiple-family
dwelling unit, the owners shall provide written notice to the community
development department within seven (7) days of such a change and file an
updated multiple- family license application, no fee will be due for filing the
change.
   B.   Closing, Canceling Of License: If at any time a multiple- family
dwelling or multiple-family building is no longer a rental unit, written notice
shall be provided within seven (7) days of disposal of legal control to the
village. (Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012)
3-9A-11: INSPECTION UPON SALE:
   A.   Inspection Report Required: No multiple-family dwelling shall be sold
unless the seller furnishes the buyer with a presale inspection report dated no
more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the date of closing and dated
no later than the day of the closing on the sale of said multiple-family
dwelling. Said report shall be based on a village community development
department, or its designated agent, inspection of all dwelling units and all
interior and exterior common areas. The report shall state that the multiple-
family dwelling complies with all applicable ordinances, codes and regulations
of the village or, in the alternative, list with specificity the manner in
which the multiple-family dwelling does not comply with all applicable
ordinances, codes and regulations.
   B.   Inspection Upon Sale Of Individual Unit: Any managing agent and/or
owner who owns a minimum of three (3) dwelling units and any one of these units
is sold, the managing agent and/or owner must have an inspection upon sale of
said dwelling.
   C.   Request For Inspection; Fee: The request for a presale inspection must
be made, in writing, not less than thirty (30) days prior to the scheduled date
of the closing.
      1.   The presale inspection fee shall be based on the number of inspector
hours required to make said inspections and prepare the required report. The
fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour per inspector. In the event a
presale inspection report is requested and the annual inspection required by
this chapter has not yet been performed for the current license year, the
license fee paid for the current license year shall be credited towards the
presale inspection fee. The presale inspection fee shall be paid at the time of
delivery of the presale inspection report.
      2.   If a multiple-family dwelling unit is inspected as part of a
scheduled presale inspection, said unit will not have to be reinspected again
within two (2) months of the presale inspection.
      3.   No presale inspections are required on a court controlled transfer.
   D.   Violation: An inspection made pursuant to this section satisfies the
annual inspection requirement of section
3-9A-7 of this article. A sale for purposes of this section includes contract
sales, exchanges, conversions to condominiums and transfers of possession or
control of any multiple-family dwelling. Any person participating in such a
sale in violation of this section, either as seller or buyer, in connection
therewith, shall be deemed in violation of this section and be subject to the
penalties as provided for in this code. Any contract executed in violation of
this section shall be voidable by the buyer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any
buyer shall be responsible for complying with each and every provision of this
chapter. (Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012)
3-9A-12: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to all other requirements set forth in this code, the following
additional requirements shall be applicable to multiple-family dwellings:
   A.   No owner or other person shall occupy or allow another person to occupy
any dwelling or dwelling unit unless it is clean, safe, sanitary, fit for human
occupancy and complies with all applicable ordinances, codes and regulations of
the village.
   B.   Every owner shall maintain in a safe, clean and sanitary condition, the
interior and exterior common areas.
   C.   The owner of any multiple-family dwelling shall be responsible for the
removal of any and all abandoned vehicles located on the premises of said
multiple-family dwelling. Such removal shall be accomplished within seven (7)
days. If any abandoned vehicle poses a hazard to human safety it shall be
removed immediately. Such removals shall be accomplished as otherwise provided
by law.
   D.   The owner shall be responsible for the maintenance and annual testing
of fire alarm and emergency lighting systems. Systems shall be tested by an
approved service company and a written report provided. Owner shall retain all
test results.
   E.   No owner shall permit the maximum occupancy of any dwelling unit to be
exceeded. The maximum occupancy of any dwelling unit shall be based on the
following:
Number Of Bedrooms Maximum Number Of Persons In Household
Number Of Bedrooms Maximum Number Of Persons In Household
0                  1
1                  2
2                  4
3                  6
4                  8
5                  10
6                  12
 
   F.   Every owner shall provide illumination for multiple-family dwellings,
as follows:
      1.   Entrances to dwellings containing more than one dwelling unit shall
be illuminated during the period from sunset to sunrise with at least the
equivalent of a one hundred (100) watt bulb. Such bulb shall be covered and
protected by a clear polycarbonate cover or cover of equal breaking resistant
material.
      2.   Open parking lots and access thereto providing more than ten (10)
parking spaces shall be provided with a maintained minimum of four-tenths (0.4)
horizontal foot-candle of light on the parking surface from dusk until dawn.
      3.   Parking and other nonenclosed areas under or within dwellings
containing more than one dwelling unit at grade shall be provided a maintained
minimum of four-tenths (0.4) horizontal foot-candle of light on the parking or
walking surface from dusk until dawn.
      4.   Sidewalks and walkways leading from parking lots to dwelling or from
dwelling to dwelling shall be provided with a maintained minimum of four-tenths
(0.4) horizontal foot-candle of light on the walking surface from dusk until
dawn.
Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to the contrary, the building
official shall have final approval of all illumination and may alter the
regulations contained herein, including the times in which the illumination is
to be provided, so as to lessen the impact on surrounding properties.
   G.   In the event that the owner of a multiple-family dwelling resides
outside the corporate limits of the village, the owner shall appoint a managing
agent that:
      1.   Has an office at the multiple-family dwelling with regular business
hours;
      2.   Lives at the multiple-family dwelling and has regular business hours
thereat; or
      3.   Has an office within the corporate limits of the village with
regular business hours.
A managing agent shall be authorized to receive notices and process on behalf
of the owner.
   H.   Every owner, or managing agent, if one is required or otherwise
appointed, shall have in its possession and immediately available for
inspection or use by the village:
      1.   Keys to all common area locks at the multiple-family dwelling.
      2.   Copies of all current leases and their respective applications.
      3.   Copies of all lease applications for the past year.
   I.   If any clubhouse or recreation building or facility at a multiple-
family dwelling is to be rented with or without consideration by thirty five
(35) people or more, the owner shall be responsible for making sure a written
application for such rental is completed stating the applicant's name, address,
date of birth, home and work telephone numbers, reason for rental, if alcohol
will be served or sold and the date, beginning time and ending time of rental.
The owner is also responsible for making sure that proper security is provided
as approved by the chief of police or his designated representative. If alcohol
is to be present, the owner shall be responsible for compliance with all
applicable codes and ordinances of the village relating to alcoholic liquor.
   J.   From and after the effective date of this chapter, no dwelling unit
shall be rented without the owner having first obtained a written application
containing or having attached thereto the following information:
      1.   Name, address, birth date, social security number, driver's license
number, work and home telephone numbers of each applicant.
      2.   A copy of each applicant's driver's license and work ID (if any)
shall be attached to the application.
      3.   A list of the current and all residences during the previous three
(3) years, including addresses, name of landlord and reason for leaving.
      4.   Name, address, birth date, social security number, driver's license
number, work and home telephone numbers of all other persons who will be
residing in the dwelling unit.
      5.   Name, address and telephone number of nearest relative or friends
(at least 2) for emergency contact purposes.
      6.   The make, model, color, year and current license plate numbers of
all cars, boats and trailers, campers, motorcycles, etc., owned or used by the
persons who will reside in the dwelling unit.
      7.   A certification as to the correctness of the information being
provided. (Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012)
3-9A-13: INSPECTIONS; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Whenever, upon inspection of the licensed multiple-family dwelling, it
is determined that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or any applicable ordinance, code or regulation of
the village, the village shall serve the owner with a notice of violation. Such
notice shall identify the specific violations and state that unless they are
corrected within the time specified in the notice, the owner shall be cited and
its license may be suspended. Notice pursuant to this section may be sent by
U.S. certified mail, regular mail, e-mail, or hand delivered to the party
designated in the application to receive notices and process.
   B.   At the end of the time allowed for correction of any violation cited,
the multiple- family dwelling shall be reinspected by the village. If it is
determined that the conditions have not been corrected, or they are not in the
process of being corrected to the satisfaction of the director of community
development, the village may issue an order suspending the license. Tenant
caused violations will not be considered grounds for suspension of license as
long as licensee cooperates in gaining compliance.
   C.   Any person whose license to operate a multiple-family dwelling has been
suspended shall be given the opportunity to be heard by the Village
Administrator or his/her designee in connection with the violations. Said
person must submit his or her request to be heard in writing and the written
request must explain in detail, the violations cited, why they have not been
corrected, and a compliance time frame for completion. However, if no written
request for hearing reaches the Village Administrator or his/her designee
within twenty one (21) days following the issuance of the order of suspension,
the license shall be revoked. The village, as a result of such hearing, may
grant additional time or may revoke the license.
      Prior to revocation any person whose license has been suspended may
request a reinspection upon a showing that the violation or violations cited in
the notice have been corrected.
   D.   If, upon reinspection, it is determined by the village that the
violations cited in the notice have been corrected, the license shall be
reinstated by the Village Administrator of his/her designee. A request for
reinspection must be filed within the twenty one (21) day time period for
requesting a hearing, unless the official responsible for sending the violation
notice so requests.
   E.   If the licensee is found guilty by a court of a violation of any
provision of this chapter or any applicable ordinance, code or regulation in
connection with the licensed multiple-family dwelling, then the license shall
be subject to revocation without further notice.
   F.   In the event a condition of extreme hazard to health or safety is found
to exist as defined in section
8-1A-13 of this code, the village may immediately revoke the license.
   G.   Each day a multiple-family dwelling continues to operate after a
license has been revoked shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter.
   H.   The first and second reinspection provided for in subsection B of this
section shall be without charge to the owner. Thereafter, each additional
reinspection shall be at a cost of fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour per
inspector, based on the number of inspector hours required to make said
inspections and prepare the required report. The minimum charge for any
reinspection shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
(Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012; amd. Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9A-14: TENANT RESPONSIBILITY:
No tenant shall commit vandalism in the dwelling in which the tenant's dwelling
unit is located, and no tenant shall permit vandalism to occur or shall violate
any of the provisions of this chapter or any applicable ordinance, code or
regulation of the village in the dwelling unit leased by the tenant. (Ord.
2012-42, 7-26-2012)
3-9A-15: NOTICE FOR INSPECTION; SEARCH WARRANTS:
   A.   Each owner, by operating under a license issued pursuant to this
chapter, and each tenant by occupying a multiple-family dwelling subject to a
license under this chapter is subject to inspections by the village entering
any and all portions of the multiple-family dwelling subject to owner's
license, or tenant's lease for purposes of making the inspections required and/
or permitted pursuant to this chapter, including the inspection of individual
dwelling units.
   B.   The village will schedule inspections with the managing agent and/or
owner of the multiple-family dwelling. The owner is responsible for notifying
all lessees with a minimum of forty eight (48) hours' notice. Owner and/or
lessee shall provide access to such portions of the multiple-family dwelling,
including dwelling units, which are otherwise inaccessible to village
inspections. During any inspection of an inaccessible portion of the multiple-
family dwelling, owner shall designate a representative to accompany the
village inspector(s) during such inspection.
   C.   In the event that an owner or lessee objects to any such inspection,
the village shall apply for an administrative search warrant to conduct such
inspection. (Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012)
3-9A-16: OWNER LIABILITY FOR ACTS AND OMISSIONS:
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
provision of this chapter by any officer, director, manager, trustee, employer,
agent or managing agent of any owner shall be deemed to be the act of such
owner and such owner shall be punishable in the same manner as if such act or
omission had been done or omitted by owner personally. (Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-
2012)
3-9A-17: NONRENEWAL OF LICENSE:
A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be renewed unless the
applicant is otherwise in conformance with the provisions of this chapter,
including the correction of existing code violations in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and all other provisions of this code. (Ord. 2012-
42, 7-26-2012)
3-9A-18: ENFORCEMENT COSTS:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction finds that any licensee has
violated any provision(s) of this code, such court shall award to the village
all of the village's costs related to the enforcement of this code, including,
but not limited to, court costs, attorney fees, building inspector costs and
administrative costs.
   B.   In the event any court fails or refuses to award the village all of its
costs as provided for hereinabove, such unpaid costs shall constitute an
additional license fee which shall be due and payable prior to the renewal of
any license for the multiple- family dwelling in question. Such additional
license fee shall be in addition to the license fee otherwise required by the
provisions of section
3-9A-5 of this article. No license shall be renewed until such time as all
costs provided for by this section have been paid. (Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012)
3-9A-19: PENALTY:
In addition to any and all penalties provided for in this article, any person
found to have violated any provision of this article shall be subject to the
general penalty provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2012-42, 7-26-2012)
ARTICLE B. DWELLING UNIT, SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING
SECTION:
3-9B-1: Applicability Of Chapter
3-9B-2: License Required
3-9B-3: License Application
3-9B-4: License Term
3-9B-5: License Fees
3-9B-6: Crime Free Housing Seminar
3-9B-7: Inspections
3-9B-8: License Location
3-9B-9: License Updated Upon Sale
3-9B-10: Closing, Canceling, Certain Transfers
3-9B-11: Additional Requirements
3-9B-12: Inspections; Violations; Suspension And Revocation Of License
3-9B-13: Tenant Responsibility
3-9B-14: Notice For Inspection; Search Warrants
3-9B-15: Owner Liability For Acts And Omissions
3-9B-16: Nonrenewal Of License
3-9B-17: Enforcement Costs
3-9B-18: Penalty
3-9B-1: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER:
   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to dwelling units and single-
family rental dwellings in accordance with the provisions set forth in this
article only as hereinafter set forth.
(Ord.2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   No person shall operate a single-family rental dwellings within the village
without having first obtained a license therefor. Licenses shall be issued by
the Village Administrator or his/her designee in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
   Any license in effect prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be
valid through its expiration date.
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-3: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   No such license shall be issued except upon written application filled with
the Village Administrator or his/her designee. A complete application for a
license shall be filed by January 1st each year. Said application shall be
signed by the legal titleholder to the single- family rental dwelling.
Application forms may be obtained from the Village Administrator or his/her
designee and shall contain such in formation as the Village Administrator or
his/her designee may, from time to time, require, including, but not limited
to:
   A.   Name, address, birth date, work and home telephone numbers of each
owner of the single-family rental dwelling. When the owner is a land trust, the
application shall include the name and address of each person(s) holding a
beneficial interest and/or power of direction therein.
   B.   Name, address, birth date, work and home telephone numbers of any
person appointed as managing agent of the single family rental dwelling. If the
managing agent is other than a natural person, the above information shall also
for that employee of the managing agent specifically assigned to the single-
family rental dwelling.
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-4: LICENSE TERM:
   Each license term granted hereunder shall be an annual license, the term of
which shall commence on January 1st of a given year and shall terminate on
December 31st of the same year.
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-5: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a license fee.
The license fee shall be seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per unit owned.
   B.   If a completed license application is not submitted together with the
required license fee prior to January 31st in any given year, the license fee
shall be increased by twenty percent (20%).
   C.   If the ownership of a building changes during the license year, the
license fee for the new owner shall be determined on a prorated basis. No
refund of any license fee paid shall be made.
   D.   Notwithstanding any provision contained hereunder to the contrary, no
license shall be renewed until such a time as all costs provided for by section
3-9A-18 of this article have been paid.
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-6: CRIME FREE HOUSING SEMINAR:
   A.   Every managing agent and/or owner holding a single family rental
license and all persons administering, managing, or controlling the operation
of any rental dwelling unit must attend a four (4) hour crime free housing
seminar, administered by the Woodridge police department. Each such person need
only attend a seminar once. In the event a village of Woodridge crime free
housing seminar is not available, such persons may attend a crime free housing
seminar provided by another municipality, if preapproved by the building
commissioner.
   B.   All persons set forth in subsection A of this section shall comply with
this section within two (2) years after the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-7: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: Every single family rental dwelling shall be
owned, operated and maintained in full compliance with all applicable
ordinances, codes and regulations of the village.
      1.   The first license applied for with respect to any single family
rental dwelling under this chapter shall not be issued to any owner for any
single-family rental dwelling, in the event, at the time of application:
         a.   An existing inspection report identifies any code violation which
has not been corrected, and the time for correction of said violation as noted
in such inspection report has expired; or
         b.   Litigation is pending with respect to code violations at such
single-family rental dwelling.
      2.   Thereafter, the village shall conduct an inspection of every single
family rental dwelling on a five (5) year rotation to determine if said single
rental dwelling is in full compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes and
regulations of the village.
   B.   Scope Of Inspections: Any inspections conducted pursuant to this
section shall include the interior and exterior areas of each rented dwelling
unit.
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-8: LICENSE LOCATION:
   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall only be valid with respect
to all specific single-family rental dwellings units owned and listed on the
license application.
(Ord, 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-9: LICENSE UPDATED UPON SALE:
   Upon the sale or transfer of any single-family dwelling unit, shall be
deemed stricken from any license issued pursuant to this chapter. Such license
shall remain valid for remaining units set forth on said license. This is not
applicable upon any court controlled transfer.
(Ord, 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-10: CLOSING, CANCELING, CERTAIN TRANSFERS:
   A.   Transfer With Respect To Certain Parties: Whenever there is a change in
the managing agent, owner, or other responsible party of a single-family rental
dwelling unit, the owners shall provide written notice to the community
development department within seven (7) days of such a change and a file an
updated single-family rental dwelling license application, no fee will be due
for filing the change.
   B.   Closing, Canceling Of License: If at any time a single family rental
dwelling is no longer a rental unit, written notice shall be provided within
seven (7) days of disposal of legal control to the village.
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-11: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   In addition to all other requirements set forth in this code, the following
additional requirements shall be applicable to single- family rental dwellings.
   A.   No owner or other person shall occupy or allow another person to occupy
any dwelling or dwelling unit unless it is clean, safe, sanitary, fit for human
occupancy and complies with all applicable ordinances, codes and regulations of
the village.
   B.   Every owner shall maintain in a safe, clean and sanitary condition, the
interior and exterior common areas.
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-12: INSPECTIONS; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Whenever, upon inspection of the licensed single-family rental
dwelling, it is determined that conditions or practices exist which are in
violation of the provisions of this chapter or any applicable ordinance, code
or regulation of the village, the village shall serve the owner with a notice
of violation. Such notice shall identify the specific violations and state that
unless they are corrected within the time specified in the notice, the owner
shall be cited and its license may be suspended. Notice pursuant to this
section may be sent by U.S. certified mail, regular mail, e-mail, or hand
delivered to the party designated in the application to receive notices and
process.
   B.   At the end of the time allowed for correction of any violation cited,
the single-family rental dwelling shall be reinspected by the village. If it is
determined that the conditions have not been corrected, or they are not in the
process of being corrected to the satisfaction of the director of community
development, the village may issue an order suspending the license. Tenant
caused violations will not be considered grounds for suspension of license as
long as licensee cooperates in gaining compliance.
   C.   Any person whose license to operate a single-family rental dwelling has
been suspended shall be given the opportunity to be heard by the Village
Administrator or his/her designee in connection with the violations. Said
person must submit his or her request to be heard in writing and the written
request must explain in detail, the violations cited, why they have not been
corrected, and a compliance time frame for completion. However, if no written
request for hearing reaches the Village Administrator or his/her designee
within twenty-one (21) days following the issuance of the order of suspension,
the license shall be revoked. The village, as a result of such hearing, may
grant additional time or may revoke the license. Prior to revocation any person
whose license has been suspended may request a reinspection upon a showing that
the violation or violations cited in the notice have been corrected.
   D.   If, upon reinspection, it is determined by the village that the
violations city in the notice have been corrected, the license shall be
reinstated by the Village Administrator of his/her designee. A request for
reinspection must be filed within the twenty-one (21) day time period for
requesting a hearing, unless the official responsible for sending the violation
notice so requests.
   E.   If the licensee is found guilty by a court of a violation of any
provision of this chapter or any applicable ordinance, code or regulation in
connection with the licensed single-family rental dwelling, then the license
shall be subject to revocation without further notice.
   F.   In the event a condition of extreme a condition of extreme hazard to
health or safety is found to exist as defined in section
8-1A-13 of this code, the village may immediately revoke the license.
   G.   Each day a single-family rental dwelling continues to operate after a
license has been revoked shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter.
   H.   The first and second reinspection provided for in subsection B of this
section shall be without charge to the owner. Thereafter, each additional
reinspection shall be at a cost of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per hour per
inspector, based on the number of inspector hours required to make said
inspection sand prepare the required report. The minimum charge for any
reinspection shall be seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-13: TENANT RESPONSIBILITY:
   No tenant shall commit vandalism in the dwelling in which the tenant’s
dwelling unit is located, and no tenant shall permit vandalism to occur or
shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or any applicable
ordinance, code or regulation of the village in the dwelling unit leased by the
tenant.
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-14: NOTICE FOR INSPECTION; SEARCH WARRANTS:
   A.   Each owner, by operating under a license issued pursuant to this
chapter, and each tenant by occupying a singly-family rental dwelling subject
to a license under this chapter is subject to inspections by the entering any
and all portions of the single- family rental dwelling subject to owner’s
license, or tenant’s lease for purposes of making the inspections required and/
or permitted pursuant to this chapter, including the inspection of individual
dwelling units.
   B.   The village will schedule inspections with the managing agent and/or
owner of the single-family rental dwelling. The owner is responsible for
notifying all lessees with a minimum of forty eight (48) hours’ notice. Owner
and/or lessee shall provide access to such portions of the single-family rental
dwelling, including dwelling units, which are otherwise inaccessible to village
inspections. During any inspection of an inaccessible portion of the single-
family rental dwelling, owner shall designate a representative to accompany the
village inspector(s) during such inspection.
   C.   In the event that an owner or lessee objects to any such inspection,
the village shall apply for an administrative search warrant to conduct such
inspection.
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-15: OWNER LIABILITY FOR ACTS AND OMISSIONS:
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
provision of this chapter by any officer, director, manager, trustee, employer,
agent or managing agent of any owner shall be deemed to be the act of such
owner and such owner shall be punishable in the same manner as if such act or
omission had been done or omitted by owner personally.
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-16: NONRENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be renewed unless the
applicant is otherwise in conformance with the provisions of this chapter,
including the correction of existing code violations in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and all other provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-17: ENFORCEMENT COSTS:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction finds that any licensee has
violated any provision(s) of this code, such court shall award to the village
all of the village’s costs related to the enforcement of this code, including,
but not limited to, court costs, attorney fees, building inspector costs and
administrative costs.
   B.   In the event any court fails or refuses to award the village all of its
costs as provided for hereinabove, such unpaid costs shall constitute an
additional license fee which shall be due and payable prior to the renewal of
any license for the single-family rental dwelling in question. Such additional
license fee shall be in addition to the license fee otherwise required by the
provisions of section
3-9B-5 of this article. No license shall be renewed until such time as all
costs provided for by this section have been paid.
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
3-9B-18: PENALTY:
   In addition to any and all penalties provided for in this article, any
person found to have violated any provision of this article shall be subject to
the general penalty provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 2025-11, 4-3-2025)
CHAPTER 10
CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE CUSTOMER PROTECTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Cable And Video Customer Protection Law Adopted
3-10-2: Enforcement; Penalties
3-10-3: Customer Credits
3-10-1: CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: The customer service and privacy protection law, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/70-501, and all regulations promulgated thereunder, are
hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to cable and video providers
offering services within the village.
   B.   Amendments: Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection
law or regulations promulgated thereunder that become effective after the
effective date hereof shall be incorporated herein by reference and shall be
applicable to cable or video providers offering services within the village.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated herein without formal
action by the village board. (Ord. 2007-69, 11-15-2007)
3-10-2: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement: The village hereby declares its intent to enforce all
customer service and privacy protection standards set forth in the cable and
video customer protection law with respect to complaints received from
residents of the village. It is the village's intent to impose such penalties
as are permitted by law to ensure the privacy of village residents and the
provision of high quality cable and video services thereto.
For the purposes of this section, the term "material breach" means any
substantial failure of a cable or video provider to comply with service quality
and other standards specified in any provision of the law.
   B.   Penalties: Pursuant to section 70-501(r)(1) of the cable and video
customer protection law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501(r)(1), the
village hereby provides for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of
the cable and video customer protection law by cable or video providers, in
addition to such other and further penalties provided by law. The monetary
penalties imposed herein shall apply on a competitively neutral basis and shall
not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day of the material
breach, and shall not exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each
occurrence of a material breach per customer. Each day that a material breach
remains outstanding after the cable or video service provider has received
notice thereof, shall constitute a separate and distinct violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 2007-69, 11-15-2007)
3-10-3: CUSTOMER CREDITS:
The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations as
set forth in section 70-501(s) of the cable and video customer protection law,
220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501(s). Said credit shall be applied on the
statement issued to the customer for the next billing cycle following the
violation or following the discovery of the violation. The cable or video
provider is responsible for providing the credits to the customer; the customer
is under no obligation to request the credit. (Ord. 2007-69, 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 11
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE AND
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE
SECTION:
3-11-1: Definitions
3-11-2: Payment Of Service Provider Fee Required
3-11-3: Payment Of PEG Access Fee Required
3-11-4: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
3-11-5: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Providers
3-11-6: Penalties
3-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: As defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition.
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to section 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi) of the act, as amended;
      2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service;
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable or video service, including,
without limitation, revenue received from telecommunications services,
information services, or the provision of directory or internet advertising,
including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and electronic
publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to noncable service
or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and records kept in
the regular course of business and any applicable laws, rules, regulations,
standards, or orders;
      4.   The sale of cable service or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village's jurisdiction and pay the fee permitted
by section 5/21-801(b) of the act, as amended, with respect to the service;
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction the village, state, federal or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes;
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers;
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to home shopping or similar vendors for
merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the cable
service or video service.
      8.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by section 5/21-801(b) of the act, as amended,
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
PEG: Public, education and governmental.
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d) by the holder to the village for the service
areas within its territorial jurisdiction.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to the village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 2007-70, 11-15-2007)
3-11-2: PAYMENT OF SERVICE PROVIDER FEE REQUIRED:
   A.   Pursuant to the act, any holder offering cable service or video service
on a commercial basis shall be liable for and pay a service provider fee to the
village.
   B.   The service provider fee shall be five percent (5%) of gross revenues,
or the same as the fee paid to the village by an incumbent cable operator
providing cable service.
   C.   Any holder shall notify the village at least ten (10) days prior to the
date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or video service in the
village.
   D.   The holder shall be liable for and pay the service provider fee to the
village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence on the first day of
the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt of the ordinance
adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting this chapter shall
be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the holder's
application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401(b)
(6), as amended, to the village.
   E.   The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a quarterly
basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   F.   The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable service or
video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement with the
village pursuant to which a fee is paid.
   G.   An incumbent cable operator that elects to terminate an existing
agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-301(c), as amended,
with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the
amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes pursuant to this
section. (Ord. 2007-70, 11-15-2007)
3-11-3: PAYMENT OF PEG ACCESS FEE REQUIRED:
   A.   Pursuant to the act, any holder offering cable service or video service
on a commercial basis shall be liable for and pay a PEG access fee.
   B.   The PEG access fee shall be no less than: 1) one percent (1%) of gross
revenues, or 2) if greater, the percentage of gross revenues that incumbent
cable operators pay to the village or its designee for PEG access support in
the village's jurisdiction. For the purposes of this subsection, the percentage
of gross revenues that all incumbent cable operators pay shall be equal to the
annual sum of the payments that incumbent cable operators in the service area
are obligated to pay by franchises and agreements or by contracts with the
village designee for PEG access in effect on January 1, 2007, including the
total of any lump sum payments required to be made over the term of each
franchise or agreement divided by the number of years of the applicable term,
divided by the annual sum of such incumbent cable operator's gross revenues
during the immediately prior calendar year. The sum of payments includes any
payments that an incumbent cable operator is required to pay pursuant to
section 21-301(c)(3) of the act, as amended.
   C.   The PEG access fee shall be due on a quarterly basis and paid forty
five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of fees. If
mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment
shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   D.   An incumbent cable operator that elects to terminate an existing
agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-301(c), as amended,
shall pay, at the time they would have been due, all monetary payments for PEG
access that would have been due during the remaining term of the agreement had
it not been terminated pursuant to that section. All payments made by an
incumbent cable operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be credited
against the fees that that operator owes pursuant to this section. (Ord. 2007-
70, 11-15-2007)
3-11-4: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village's
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 2007-70,
11-15-2007)
3-11-5: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS:
   A.   The village will notify the holder of the requirements it imposes on
other cable service or video service providers to submit to an audit of its
books and records and to recompute any amounts determined to be payable under
the requirements of the village.
   B.   The holder shall comply with the audit terms and requirements set forth
in the village's cable communication enabling ordinances and local franchises
with incumbent cable operators, if any.
   C.   If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq., as amended. No acceptance of amounts remitted
should be construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   D.   Any additional amount due after an audit shall be paid within thirty
(30) days after the village's submission of an invoice for the sum. (Ord. 2007-
70, 11-15-2007)
3-11-6: PENALTIES:
Failure to comply with the terms of section
3-11-5 of this chapter shall result in the assessment of fines and fees
pursuant to the terms of local franchises with incumbent cable operators, if
any. In the event that all local franchises have expired or are otherwise
terminated, fines and penalties shall be assessed to the maximum amount
permitted by the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 2007-70, 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 12
TREE REMOVAL
SECTION:
3-12-1: License Required
3-12-2: Application For License
3-12-3: License Fee
3-12-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of tree removal before obtaining a
license therefor from the village clerk. The license required under this
chapter shall be issued by the village clerk subject to the applicable
standards of this title. (Ord. 2008-43, 9-18-2008)
3-12-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The village clerk shall not issue any license pursuant to this chapter unless
the applicant provides one of the following:
   A.   A certificate of insurance, issued by an insurance company authorized
to do business in the state of Illinois that evidences liability coverage of
the applicant for personal injury and property damage. Such certificate shall
show the policy number, policy period, the limits of coverage, and the amount
of any self-insured retention; or
   B.   A statement, signed by the contractor, if an individual, or by one
authorized to sign on behalf of a partnership or corporation, that the
contractor is not covered by liability insurance, and providing the address to
which claims against the contractor for personal injury or property damage
should be sent.
The certificate of insurance or statement filed in accordance with this section
shall be open to public inspection. Within fifteen (15) days of any change in
insurance coverage which causes the most recently filed certificate or
statement to be inaccurate, the licensee shall file a new certificate or
statement with the village clerk. (Ord. 2008-43, 9-18-2008; amd. Ord. 2019-45,
10-3-2019)
3-12-3: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for the tree removal license shall be as provided in subsection 3-1A-3C
of this title. Said license fee shall be paid prior to the issuance of any
license. (Ord. 2008-43, 9-18-2008)
CHAPTER 13
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-13-1: Definitions
3-13-2: License Required
3-13-3: Exemptions
3-13-4: License Fee
3-13-5: Application For License
3-13-6: Examination And Investigation Of Applicant
3-13-7: Grounds For Denial Of License Or Renewal License
3-13-8: Compliance Inspections
3-13-9: Employment Of Licensed Massage Therapists
3-13-10: Operating Requirements
3-13-11: Cleanliness Of Premises
3-13-12: Restrictions On Advertising
3-13-13: Employment Of Minors
3-13-14: Violations And Penalties
3-13-15: Change In Information
3-13-16: Sale Or Transfer Or Change Of Location
3-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
LICENSED PREMISES: The place or location described in a massage establishment
license where a massage establishment is authorized to operate.
LICENSEE: The operator of a licensed massage establishment.
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on, friction against, or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating of the external soft
parts of the body with the hands or with aid of any mechanical or electrical
apparatus or appliances with or without such supplementary aids as rubbing
alcohol, liniments, antiseptic oils, powder, creams, lotions, soaps, ointments,
or other similar preparations commonly used in this practice.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any person, having a source of income or compensation
derived from the practice of massage and which has a fixed place of business
where any person engages in or carries out any of such activities.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT EMPLOYEE: Any person who works in or at or renders any
services directly related to the operation of a massage establishment;
provided, however, that this definition shall not include persons delivering
goods, materials, food and beverages, or performing maintenance or repairs to
the licensed premises.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE: A massage establishment license as provided for
in this chapter.
MASSAGE PATRON: Any person, other than a massage establishment employee,
present in or at any massage establishment at any time when such massage
establishment is open for business; provided, however, that this definition
shall not include persons delivering goods, materials, food and beverages, or
performing maintenance or repairs, to the licensed premises.
MASSAGE SERVICES: The performance of massage.
MASSAGE THERAPIST: Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever, engages in
the practice of "massage" as defined herein.
SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA: The genitals, pubic area, anus, or perineum of any
person, including the vulva or breasts of a female. (Ord. 2011-43, 9-8-2011)
3-13-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct, operate or maintain or permit to be conducted,
operated or maintained, or participate in the conduct, operation or maintenance
of a massage establishment within the village unless the village has issued a
license for such massage establishment as provided for in this chapter which is
in full force and effect, and such valid and current license is displayed in a
conspicuous place within the massage establishment at all times. (Ord. 2011-43,
9-8-2011)
3-13-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The licensing requirements of this chapter shall not be applicable to:
   A.   Hospitals, nursing homes, sanatoriums, or any facility at which a
healthcare worker duly licensed by the state provides, on an ongoing basis,
professional health services to individuals, including the offices of an
occupational therapist licensed under the occupational therapy practice act 1 ;
a physical therapist licensed under the physical therapy act 2 ; a physician or
chiropractic physician licensed under the medical practice act 3 ; and a
naprapath licensed under the naprapathic practice act 4 .
   B.   Any barber, cosmetologist, or nail technician lawfully carrying on
their respective business to the extent authorized under a valid unrevoked
license or certificate or registration issued by the state. Provided, this
exemption is only intended to permit normal and customary barber,
cosmetologist, or nail technician services which involve incidental physical
contact, such as scalp rubs and facials, which otherwise qualify as massage
activities. This exemption is not intended to include, and does not permit,
general massage activities as part of any barber, cosmetologist, or nail
technician business beyond that authorized by the state license or
certification.
   C.   Any state registered athletic trainer who administers such athletic
related massage in the normal course of training duties.
   D.   Where massage services are actually performed at the patron's premises,
including the patron's place of business or residence, a village license shall
not be required for such patron's premises. However, a state massage therapist
license shall be required for the massage therapist performing massage
activities in such patron's premises. (Ord. 2011-43, 9-8-2011)
   E.   A reflexologist, who restricts manipulation of soft tissue to the feet,
hands, and ears, and who does not have the client disrobe. Reflexology
establishments shall conduct their operations in an open floor format and not
in private client rooms. (Ord. 2015-72, 12-17-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 75/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 90/1 et seq.
3 3. 225 ILCS 60/1 et seq.
4 4. 225 ILCS 63/1 et seq.
3-13-4: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee for a massage establishment license shall be as set forth in
subsection 3-1A-3C15 of this title. (Ord. 2011-43, 9-8-2011)
3-13-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring to obtain a massage establishment license shall be made in
writing to the village clerk and shall comply with all of the provisions of
this title relating to such application. The village clerk or designee shall
have the right to confirm any of the information asked for or provided in the
application. Applications shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   The name (including any nicknames or aliases), address, telephone
number, social security number, and age of the applicant.
   B.   The name and residence address of each applicant (hereinafter all
provisions which refer to applicant include an applicant which may be a
corporation, limited liability company or partnership).
   C.   If applicant is a corporation or limited liability company, the names
and residence addresses of each of the officers and directors of said
corporation or company and of each stockholder owning more than ten percent
(10%) of the stock of the corporation or company, and the address of the
corporation or company itself, if different from the address of the massage
establishment.
   D.   If applicant is a partnership, the names and residence addresses of
each of the partners including limited partners, and the address of the
partnership itself, if different from the address of the massage establishment.
   E.   The two (2) previous addresses immediately prior to the present address
of the applicant.
   F.   The name and address of any massage business or other establishment
owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be given in
subsections A through D of this section wherein the business or profession of
massage is carried on.
   G.   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant as follows:
      1.   Any offense involving sexual misconduct with children or other sex
offenses as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et seq.; or
      2.   A felony based upon conduct or involvement in a massage
establishment or related or similar business or activity, within the past ten
(10) years; or
      3.   A felony unrelated to conduct or involvement in a massage
establishment or related or similar business or activity, but which felony
involved the use of a deadly weapon, traffic in narcotic drugs, or violence
against another person, including rape, within the past five (5) years; or
      4.   A misdemeanor or licensing ordinance violation based upon conduct or
involvement in a massage establishment or related or similar business or
activity, within the past two (2) years.
   H.   Business, occupation, or employment of the applicant for three (3)
years immediately preceding the date of application.
   I.   The massage or similar business license history of the applicant;
whether such person, in previously operating in this or another village or
state, has had a business license revoked or suspended, the reason therefor,
and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension
or revocation.
   J.   The location or description of the massage establishment which is to be
operated under such license, and the following information:
      1.   The specific type or types of massage establishment(s) that the
applicant proposes to operate in the licensed premises.
      2.   The specific name of the business that is to be operated under the
massage establishment license.
      3.   A diagram showing the internal and external configuration of the
licensed premises, including all doors, windows, entrances, exits, the fixed
structural internal features of the licensed premises, plus the interior rooms,
walls, partitions, stages, performance areas, and restrooms. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall
not be required; provided, however that each diagram shall be oriented to the
north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn to a designated
scale or with marked dimensions to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches
(±6") and sufficient to show clearly the various interior dimensions of all
areas of the licensed premises and to demonstrate compliance with the
provisions of this section.
      4.   If owned, a copy of the deed. If leased, a copy of the lease shall
be provided and the lease shall be for a term of sufficient length to encompass
the term of the license sought.
      5.   The name and address of the owner or owners of the premises and the
names and addresses of all the owners of the beneficial interest of any trust
if said premises is held in trust.
      6.   The name of the individual or individuals who shall be the day to
day, on site managers of the proposed massage establishment. If the manager is
other than the applicant, the applicant shall provide, for each manager, all of
the information required pursuant to subsections A, B, C and D of this section.
      7.   The licensee of every massage establishment shall maintain a
register of all of its massage establishment employees. The register shall be
maintained for all current employees and all employees employed at any time
during the preceding thirty six (36) months. The licensee shall make the
register of its massage establishment employees available for inspection by the
village immediately upon demand at all reasonable times. For each such
employee, the register shall include the following information:
         a.   Legal name.
         b.   Any and all aliases.
         c.   Date of birth.
         d.   Gender.
         e.   Social security number.
         f.   Date of commencement of employment.
         g.   Date of employment termination, if applicable.
         h.   Specific job or employment duties.
         i.   A copy of any massage therapist license issued to such employee
pursuant to state law.
   K.   In the event applicant is made aware that any information or document
submitted as part of this application process is or becomes inaccurate or
incomplete, applicant shall immediately notify the village and provide
appropriate corrections. Failure to accurately and completely provide required
information may delay the processing of such application or result in its
denial.
   L.   Such additional information or identification as the village may
request. (Ord. 2015-72, 12-17-2015)
3-13-6: EXAMINATION AND INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
In addition to the requirements as set forth in this title, no license shall be
issued until the applicant shall have been investigated by the village chief of
police or designee and a report filed approving the new applicant. New
applicant shall not be licensed until said new applicant and managers, if any,
have been fingerprinted and photographed by the village chief of police, or his
or her designee, and record searches made of the files of the sheriffs of
DuPage and/or Will Counties, the Illinois bureau of investigations, the federal
bureau of investigation and any other record agency that the chief of police
shall deem necessary. A copy of the fingerprints and photographs shall be
retained in the files of the chief of police, and a sworn affidavit from the
chief of police clearing the applicant shall be filed with the village clerk.
Payment of all costs associated with any investigation or criminal background
check pursuant to this chapter shall be paid by the applicant. (Ord. 2011-43,
9-8-2011)
3-13-7: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE OR RENEWAL LICENSE:
In addition to the requirements as set forth in this title, when the
investigation reveals any of the following circumstances, the village clerk or
designee shall promptly notify the applicant or license holder that the
application is disapproved and that no license shall be issued or be renewed.
Circumstances include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Location of the business does not comply with the village zoning
ordinance or any other village ordinance.
   B.   Building or premises does not comply with the village building code.
   C.   Applicant/licensee or the premises do not comply with all local health,
fire and safety regulations.
   D.   Applicant/licensee has failed to comply with any applicable provisions
of this chapter.
   E.   Applicant/licensee has failed to comply with any applicable state law
or administrative regulation, or when the applicant/licensee has failed to
obtain a necessary license from the state.
   F.   Applicant/licensee fails to provide or maintain current licensing
records.
   G.   Applicant/licensee refuses to allow authorized village personnel to
enter the licensed premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making a
prelicense investigation.
   H.   Applicant/licensee operated a business or activity in a previous year
without the benefit of a license and such business or activity was required to
have a license.
   I.   Applicant/licensee has previously been convicted of a felony or any
other crime of moral turpitude, or when the applicant/licensee has
unsuccessfully defended a criminal civil proceeding wherein the applicant/
licensee was charged with fraud, misrepresentation, or unscrupulous business
practices. However, where the conviction or unsuccessful defense occurred more
than four (4) years prior to the date of application and the village clerk
determines that the issuance of such license will not endanger the safety or
welfare of the general public, the village clerk shall not disapprove the
application solely on these grounds.
   J.   Applicant/licensee has been issued a liquor license for the premises as
noted in the application.
   K.   Applicant/licensee has been convicted (including a sentence of
supervision or conditional discharge) of the following offenses:
      1.   Any offense involving sexual misconduct with children or sex
offenses as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-6 et seq., as
amended; or
      2.   A felony based upon conduct or involvement in such business or
activity or related or similar business or activity, during the past ten (10)
years; or
      3.   A felony unrelated to conduct or involvement in such business or
activity or related or similar business or activity, but which felony involved
the use of deadly weapon, violations of the cannabis control act 1  or the
controlled substances act 2  or violence against another person, including
rape, within the past five (5) years; or
      4.   A misdemeanor or licensing ordinance violation, based upon conduct
or involvement in such business or activity or related or similar business or
activity, within the past two (2) years; or
      5.   An offense in any other state, or a federal offense, the elements of
which are similar and bear a substantial relationship to any offenses
enumerated in this section.
   L.   Applicant/licensee's license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause.
   M.   Applicant/licensee has been denied a massage establishment license or
massage establishment license was revoked within twelve (12) months immediately
preceding the date of the application.
   N.   Applicant/licensee is residing with, or married to, a person who has
been denied massage establishment license within twelve (12) months immediately
preceding the date of application, whose massage establishment license has been
revoked within twelve (12) months immediately preceding the date of the
application or whose massage establishment license is under suspension at the
time of application.
   O.   Applicant/licensee is overdue on payment to the village of taxes, fees,
fines, or penalties assessed against, or imposed on, any such individual in
connection to any massage establishment.
   P.   Licensee, who at the time of application for renewal or any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   Q.   Applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years of age.
   R.   In addition to the provision stated hereinabove, no massage
establishment license shall be issued or renewed under the following
circumstances:
      1.   To a partnership, if any general partner thereof, or any limited
partner owning more than twenty percent (20%) of the aggregate limited partner
interest in such partnership, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder.
      2.   To a corporation, if any officer or director, or any stockholder or
stockholders owning in aggregate more than twenty percent (20%) of the stock of
such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder.
      3.   To a corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it
is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the business corporation act
of 1983 3  as amended, to transact business in Illinois.
      4.   To any applicant whose place of business is conducted by a manager
unless the manager possesses the same qualifications required by the licensee.
      5.   To any applicant who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee.
   S.   Applicant/licensee is not a United States citizen or has status as a
permanent resident alien or valid work permit. (Ord. 2011-43, 9-8-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
2 2. 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.
3 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
3-13-8: COMPLIANCE INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Authority: Village representatives shall from time to time, make an
inspection of each establishment granted a permit under the provisions of this
chapter for the purposes of determining that there is compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. Such inspections shall be made at reasonable times
and in a reasonable manner. (Ord. 2015-72, 12-17-2015)
   B.   Licensee Cooperation: A licensee shall permit representatives of the
village to inspect the licensed premises and the licensed massage establishment
for the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this chapter
and all other applicable law at any time during which the licensed premises is
occupied or the massage establishment is open for business.
   C.   Interference Or Refusal: It shall be unlawful for the licensee, any
massage establishment employee, or any other person to prohibit, interfere
with, or refuse to allow, any lawful inspection conducted by the village
pursuant to this chapter or any other authority.
   D.   Revocation: Any such prohibition, interference, or refusal shall be
grounds for revocation as provided otherwise in this title. (Ord. 2011-43, 9-8-
2011)
3-13-9: EMPLOYMENT OF LICENSED MASSAGE THERAPISTS:
No massage therapist may be employed in a massage establishment who does not
hold a current, valid license issued by the Illinois department of professional
regulation, as required by the massage licensing act 1 , which license may not
have been suspended, revoked or temporarily suspended under that act. Each
massage establishment shall maintain a current listing of all licensed massage
therapists who perform massage services at the massage establishment, along
with proof of their valid and current Illinois licensure, and must allow
inspection of such records at any reasonable time upon the request of any
representative of the village. (Ord. 2011-43, 9-8-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 57/1 et seq.
3-13-10: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
Every massage establishment shall comply with the following minimum
requirements:
   A.   Every portion of the massage establishment, including any and all
appliances, apparatus, or other mechanical and therapeutic devices shall be
kept clean and operated under sanitary conditions. The massage establishment
shall contain facilities for sanitization of equipment before use on each
customer.
   B.   Price rates for all massage services shall be prominently posted in the
reception area of the massage establishment in a location available to all
prospective customers.
   C.   All employees and massage therapists shall wear clean, nontransparent
outer garments covering the sexual and genital areas.
   D.   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity which shall be laundered after each
use thereof and stored in a sanitary manner. All towels and linens furnished
for use of one patron shall not be refurnished for use of another patron until
laundered.
   E.   The sexual or genital areas of clients must be covered with
nontransparent towels, clothes, or undergarments when in the presence of an
employee or massage therapist.
   F.   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, baths, and steam rooms and
any other physical facilities shall be kept in good repair and maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition. Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor cabinets,
shower compartments and toilet rooms shall be thoroughly cleaned each day the
massage establishment is in operation. Bathtubs and showers shall be thoroughly
cleaned after each use. When carpeting is used on floors, it shall be kept dry.
   G.   Oils, creams, lotions, and other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean individual use containers, closed containers or
cabinets.
   H.   Each massage therapist shall wash his or her hands in hot running water
using a proper soap disinfectant before administering any massage to any
customer or client.
   I.   It shall be unlawful for any person in the massage establishment to
place his or her hand upon, to touch with any part of his or her body, or
fondle in any manner, or massage a sexual or genital area of any person.
   J.   No massage therapist employee or licensee shall perform, offer, or
agree to perform any act which shall require the touching of a client's sexual
or genital area.
   K.   No massage therapist shall administer a massage to a client exhibiting
any skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation or skin eruption, unless a
physician duly licensed by the state of Illinois shall certify in writing that
such person may be safely massaged and shall describe the conditions under
which such massage may be performed.
   L.   No client shall be permitted to operate any device capable of recording
or transmitting still or moving images in any area of the massage
establishment, including, without limitation, still or video cameras, video
recorders, camera phones, or any similar device.
   M.   No portion of the licensed premises shall be designed, modified,
equipped or used as a residence or for residential purposes. No person shall
reside, board, or otherwise use a licensed massage establishment as a
residence. (Ord. 2011-43, 9-8-2011)
   N.   Every massage therapist shall display their valid license as required
by the Illinois department of professional regulation.
   O.   No portion of any business premises used in any way for or by a massage
business shall be kept open for any purpose between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 2015-72, 12-17-2015)
3-13-11: CLEANLINESS OF PREMISES:
Every massage establishment shall comply with the following minimum
requirements:
   A.   All massage tables, lavatories, and floors shall have surfaces which
may be readily disinfected.
   B.   Separate dressing, locker, toilet, and massage room facilities shall be
provided for female and male clients, so that female and male clients may be
served simultaneously in the event that clients of both sexes are permitted.
   C.   Toilet facilities shall be provided within the massage establishment.
When five (5) or more employees, massage therapists or patrons of different
sexes are contemplated to be on the premises at the same time, separate toilet
facilities shall be provided for each sex. A lavatory capable of providing both
hot and cold running water shall be installed in each toilet room and shall be
supplied with soap and dispenser with sanitary towels.
   D.   Closed cabinets shall be provided for use in the storage of clean
linens, towels, and other materials used in administering massage services. All
soiled linens, towels, and other materials shall be kept in properly covered
containers or cabinets which shall be kept separate from the clean storage
areas. (Ord. 2011-43, 9-8-2011)
3-13-12: RESTRICTIONS ON ADVERTISING:
No massage establishment shall depict, place, publish, distribute, or cause to
be depicted, placed, published, or distributed any advertising matter that
suggests to prospective clients that any services are available other than
those services permitted by this chapter, or which would suggest that massage
establishment employees are dressed in a manner other than that permitted by
this chapter. (Ord. 2011-43, 9-8-2011)
3-13-13: EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any massage establishment to employ any person who is
not at least eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 2011-43, 9-8-2011)
3-13-14: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Liability For Violations: Every act or omission of whatsoever nature
constituting a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by any
licensee, officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any licensee
shall be deemed and held to be the act of such employer or licensee and such
employer or licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if such act or
omission had been done or omitted by him or her personally.
   B.   Penalties Generally: Any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than the
maximum amount permitted by section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. In
addition to any other penalty provided in this chapter, a licensee convicted of
violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to having his or her
license revoked, suspended or not renewed.
   C.   License Revocation As Additional Penalty: Whenever any licensee shall
have been convicted by any court of a violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter or any other ordinances of the village, the licensee shall, in
addition to all other penalties for such offense, incur a forfeiture of any
license issued pursuant to this chapter and all monies that have been paid
therefor. (Ord. 2011-43, 9-8-2011)
3-13-15: CHANGE IN INFORMATION:
During the pendency of any application for, or during the term of, any massage
establishment license, the applicant or licensee shall promptly notify the
village in writing of any change in any material information given by the
applicant, licensee or permittee in the application for such license, including
specifically, but without limitation, any change in designation of the massage
establishments where a massage therapist is providing massage services; any
change in the identification of massage therapists, within fifteen (15) days of
hire, at any massage establishment; and any change in the managers or employees
of the massage establishment or in the individuals identified in the
application. (Ord. 2015-72, 12-17-2015)
3-13-16: SALE OR TRANSFER OR CHANGE OF LOCATION:
Upon sale, transfer or relocation of a massage establishment, the license
therefor shall be null and void. (Ord. 2015-72, 12-17-2015)
CHAPTER 14
COMMERCIAL FILMING PERMITS
SECTION:
3-14-1: Definitions
3-14-2: Permit Required
3-14-3: Exemptions
3-14-4: Permit Fee
3-14-5: Application For Permit
3-14-6: Permit Tiers
3-14-7: Extension Of Permit
3-14-8: Public Notice Required
3-14-9: Use Of Village Equipment And Personnel
3-14-10: Hours Of Filming
3-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them:
COMMERCIAL FILMING: The film, electronic, magnetic, digital, or other recording
of a moving image by a person, business, or other entity for a market audience
with the intent of generating income. Examples include, but are not limited to,
feature film, videography, television broadcast, documentary, or other similar
projects. Commercial filming activities may include the advertisement of a
product or service, or the use of actors, models, sets, or props.
COMMERCIAL FILMING PERMIT: A permit authorizing a person, business, or other
entity to engage in commercial filming activities within the Village of
Woodridge. (Ord. 2021-32, 10-21-2021)
3-14-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, business, or entity shall conduct commercial filming activities
without first obtaining a valid permit from the Village of Woodridge.
Commercial filming activities performed without permit may be ordered to stop
by the Village Administrator or their designee. (Ord. 2021-32, 10-21-2021)
3-14-3: EXEMPTIONS:
Filming for news broadcasts, live coverage by members of the media, and most
student productions typically does not require a permit. Those who believe they
qualify to undertake commercial filming activities without a permit should
first contact Village Staff for clarification. (Ord. 2021-32, 10-21-2021)
3-14-4: PERMIT FEE:
The permit fee structure for commercial filming permits shall be as set forth
in subsection
3-1A-3E of this title. (Ord. 2021-32, 10-21-2021)
3-14-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Application Procedure:
Those wishing to conduct commercial filming activities within the Village of
Woodridge should first contact Community Development department staff to
discuss permitting needs.
After this discussion, a completed permit application should be submitted along
with all required documents for Village review no later than twenty one (21)
days prior to the proposed commencement of filming. A non-refundable one
hundred dollar ($100.00) application fee should also be submitted at this time.
Applications made less than twenty one (21) days from the proposed commencement
of filming are considered "late" and carry an additional fifty dollar ($50.00)
fee. Applications made closer to the proposed start date carry a greater risk
of rejection.
Village staff will review the submitted application, and will either approve
the application, reject the application, or return the application with
requests for further details.
   B.   Application Materials: All applications for a commercial filming permit
shall at the minimum be accompanied by:
      1.   Completed application form.
      2.   Production parking plan (including number, type, and proposed
location of vehicles to be parked and whether those vehicles would be stored
overnight).
      3.   Details of proposed construction, alterations, and modifications to
any structures.
      4.   Traffic control plan (if requesting full or partial street closure).
      5.   Hold Harmless agreement.
      6.   Property Owner Letter of Approval.
      7.   Certificate of Insurance (one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence, two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) aggregate, Village of
Woodridge, its officials, employees, agents and volunteers as an additional
insured on a primary and non-contributory basis).
      8.   A check made payable to the Village of Woodridge for the one hundred
dollar ($100.00) application fee (one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) if
application is late).
      9.   Security Deposit: Depending on the size and scope of the event, the
Village Administrator reserves the right to require the permit applicant to
furnish a refundable security deposit. The amount of the deposit, if required,
will be determined on a case-by- case basis.
Other materials may be requested at the discretion of the Village Administrator
or their designee. (Ord. 2021-32, 10-21-2021)
3-14-6: PERMIT TIERS:
The Village operates on a three (3) tier commercial filming permit ("permit")
structure. The tier of permit required will be determined by Village staff upon
review of a complete and submitted application.
   A.   Tier 1 Filming Permit: Defined as any commercial filming activity that
requires any one of the following:
      1.   Complete closure of a public road or pedestrian walkway for any
period of time;
      2.   Disruption or interruption of public use of a public building,
property, or facility during regular operating hours.
      3.   Outdoor storage of production related materials or vehicles for a
period of three (3) or more days.
      4.   The proposed temporary usage of any building for a period of three
(3) or more months.
Tier 1 permits are valid for a maximum of six (6) months.
   B.   Tier 2 Filming Permit: Defined as any commercial filming activity that
requires any one of the following:
      1.   The partial closure of a public road or pedestrian walkway, where
public use is restricted, but not completely obstructed, for any period of
time.
      2.   Partial use of a public building, property or facility that does not
require a closure to the public.
      3.   Overnight, outdoor storage of production related materials or
vehicles for a period of less than three (3) days.
      4.   The proposed temporary usage of any building for a period of one (1)
to three (3) months.
   C.   Tier 3 Filming Permit: Defined as any commercial filming activity that:
      1.   Does not require the closure or limitation of any public roads,
pedestrian walkways or other right-of-way.
      2.   Does not require the use of public property, facilities, and/or
buildings.
      3.   Does not require the overnight, outdoor storage of production
related materials or vehicles.
      4.   Temporarily uses a building for a period of up to one (1) month.
(Ord. 2021-32, 10-21-2021)
3-14-7: EXTENSION OF PERMIT:
Requests for permit extensions should be submitted in writing to the attention
of the Village Administrator. One (1) extension of up to six (6) months may be
granted at the discretion of the Village Administrator. Further extensions
require approval by the Mayor and Board of Trustees. The Village Administrator
reserves the right to refer all extension requests to the Mayor and Board of
Trustees.
The Village Administrator will consider request for extensions of twenty-four
(24) to seventy-two (72) hours due to weather delays on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 2021-32, 10-21-2021)
3-14-8: PUBLIC NOTICE REQUIRED:
The applicant shall notify the affected neighborhood or business district
twenty four (24) hours prior to filming. Notice should be provided in the form
of a leaflet or door hanger and should be distributed within a two hundred and
fifty foot (250') radius of the filming location. A list of properties will be
provided by Village staff alongside the permit approval.
The filming notice shall include at a minimum the name of company, name of
production, type of production, duration (i.e., times, dates and number of
days) and company contact. (Ord. 2021-32, 10-21-2021)
3-14-9: USE OF VILLAGE EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL:
The applicant will agree to pay for the costs of any police, public works,
building, or other Village personnel assigned to the project (whether
specifically requested by the producer or not).
Remuneration rates for the use of any Village equipment will be established on
a case-by-case basis. The applicant will need to arrange for use of fire
equipment with the appropriate fire protection district. The applicant will
agree to pay in full, promptly upon receipt of an invoice, the charges
incurred.
The Village Administrator or Chief of Police has the authority to require
additional police coverage if it is determined to be in the best interest for
public safety. Off-duty police officers are to be paid one and one half (1.5)
their hourly rate based on their rank. Off-duty police officers and community
service officers shall be paid at the hourly rate established for special
detail events. Rates for special details shall be referenced in the current
collective bargaining agreements. (Ord. 2021-32, 10-21-2021)
3-14-10 HOURS OF FILMING:
Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Village Administrator, filming is
only to be conducted between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. Set construction and other activities must follow the
Village's construction hours as set forth in section
8-1A-16 of this Code. (Ord. 2021-32, 10-21-2021)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Nuisance Defined and Prohibited
4-1-2: Abatement Procedure
4-1-3: Penalties
4-1-1: NUISANCE DEFINED AND PROHIBITED:
The following acts, conduct and conditions are hereby declared and defined to
be nuisances, and when committed, performed and/or permitted to exist by any
person within the territorial limits of the Village, are hereby declared to be
unlawful and prohibited:
   A.   Common Law Nuisances: Any act or offense which is a nuisance according
to the common law of the State of Illinois, or declared or defined to be a
nuisance by the ordinances of the Village or of the statutes of the State of
Illinois. In addition, the officials of the Municipality shall be authorized to
abate any nuisance which, while not specifically defined within this Chapter,
shall constitute the unreasonable, unwarrantable or unlawful use by a person or
property, real or personal, or from his own improper, indecent or unlawful
personal conduct which works in obstruction or injury to a right of another or
of the public and produces such material annoyance, inconvenience, discomfort
or hurt that the law will presume an actionable nuisance. Nuisances may be
abated which are public or which are both public and private in nature.
   B.   General Conditions:
      1.   Any thing, act, occupation or use of property, premises, equipment
or structure adversely affecting the health, welfare and safety of individuals
or of the public.
      2.   Any act or omission, occupation and use of property, equipment or
structure which shall in any way threaten the life or the use of property of
individuals or of the public.
   C.   Dangerous, Unhealthful Buildings: 1
      1.   All buildings, walls and other structures which have been damaged or
neglected by fire, decay or otherwise so as to constitute a menace to the
health, welfare or safety of individuals or of the public.
      2.   To own, maintain or keep a dwelling unit unfit for human habitation
or dangerous or detrimental to life, safety or health because of lack of
repair, defects in the plumbing system, lighting or ventilation, the existence
of contagious diseases or unsanitary conditions likely to cause sickness among
persons residing in said premises, or residing in proximity thereof.
   D.   Animal Carcasses; Offal: 2
      1.   To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal, or any offal, filth or
noisome substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place under
this ownership or control to the injury of others.
      2.   To throw or deposit any offal or any other offensive matter or the
carcass of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or
common sewer, street or public highway.
   E.   Water Pollution: To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water
of any well, spring, river, stream, pond or lake to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   F.   Obstructing Public Ways: To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys, commons and landing places and ways to burying
places.
   G.   Offensive Businesses: 3  To erect, to continue or use any building or
other place for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise is offensive or
dangerous to the health of individuals or of the public.
   H.   Advertisements on Public or Private Property: To advertise wares or
occupations by painting notices of the same on or affixing them to fences,
walls, windows, building exteriors, utility poles, or on hydrants, other public
or private property, or on rocks or other natural objects, without the consent
of the owner, or if in the highway right of way or other public place, the
permission of the Village authorities.
   I.   Harassment Regarding Real Estate Transactions: To harass, intimidate or
threaten any person who is about to sell or lease or has sold or leased a
residence or other real property, or is about to buy or lease or has bought or
leased a residence or other real property, when the harassment, intimidation or
threat relates to a person's attempt to sell, buy or lease a residence or other
real property or refers to a person's sale, purchase or lease of a residence or
other real property.
   J.   Unlawful Garbage and Refuse Deposits: 4
      1.   Public Property: To dump, abandon, deposit, dismantle or burn upon
any public property or right of way, highway, park, street or parkway anywhere
in the Village any trash, garbage, ashes, junk, junked or wrecked automobiles
or parts thereof or miscellaneous waste.
      2.   Private Property: To dump, deposit or place any garbage, rubbage,
trash or refuse upon real property owned by another without the consent of the
owner or person in possession of such real property.
   K.   Open Junk Storage: To store, keep or maintain outside of a closed
building, any junk, parts, machinery or equipment not in an operable condition,
except as may be otherwise permitted by this Code.
   L.   Inoperable Motor Vehicles 5 : All inoperable motor vehicles, whether on
public or private property. However, nothing in this subsection shall apply to
any motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use, to historic
vehicles over twenty five (25) years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the
premises of a place of business engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor
vehicles.
As used in this subsection, "inoperable motor vehicle" means any motor vehicle
from which, for a period of at least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels or
other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other parts
have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is
incapable of being driven under its own motor power. "Inoperable motor vehicle"
shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable
of being driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary services
or repair operations.
   M.   Insect Infestations: All infestations of flies, fleas, roaches, lice,
ticks, rats, mice, fly maggots and mosquitoes and mosquito larvae.
   N.   Noise:
      1.   To produce or permit to be produced, whether on private or public
property, any offensive noise to the disturbance of the peace or quiet of any
person residing in the vicinity.
      2.   For the owner and/or occupant of any premises to permit any of the
following activities to be conducted on said premises from nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., within three hundred feet (300') of any
residential district boundary:
         a.   The collection, pick up or disposal of refuse, recyclable
materials, empty containers, drums, etc., or any other reusable product or
device, except when conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building;
         b.   The sweeping or cleaning of any parking lot or sidewalk by any
mechanical means, however, snow plow activities after or during snow events
shall be exempt from this requirement;
         c.   The shipping or receiving of any goods, merchandise or any other
materials, except when conducted entirely within a completely enclosed
building; or
         d.   Any other outdoor maintenance activity requiring the use of any
mechanical device.
      3.   Exceptions:
         a.   The maintenance of public or private golf courses.
   O.   Dog Nuisances: Any dog which is defined as:
      1.   A vicious dog under section
5-6A-1 of this Code and which is not kept in compliance with subsection 5-6A-5C
of this Code; or
      2.   A dangerous dog under section
5-6A-1 of this Code, which is not kept in compliance with subsection 5-6A-5B of
this Code.
   P.   Tree And Plant Nuisances:
      1.   Disease Conditions: All trees, shrubs, vines, cuttings, scions,
graphs, plants and plant parts and plant products in places within the Village,
infested with injurious insect pests or infected with plant diseases which are
liable to spread to other plants, plant products or places to the injury
thereof, or to the injury of man and animals, and all species and varieties of
trees, shrubs, vines and other plants not essential to the welfare of the
people of the Village which may serve as a favorable host plant and promote the
prevalence and abundance of insect pests and plant diseases, or any stage
thereof, injurious to other plants essential to the welfare of the people of
this Village.
      2.   Dangerous Conditions; Encroachments 6 : Any tree, shrub or other
planting:
         a.   Which by its location or condition constitutes a threat to the
safety or property of individuals or of the public; or
         b.   Which obstructs or encroaches upon any street right-of-way,
sidewalk, public property or any public or Village utility lines or facilities.
   Q.   Illegal Liquor Manufacture Or Sale 2 : Every lot, parcel or tract of
land, and every building, structure, tent, boat, wagon, vehicle, establishment
or place whatsoever, together with all furniture, fixtures, ornaments and
machinery located thereon, wherein there shall be conducted any unlawful
manufacture, distribution, or sale of alcoholic liquor, or whereon or wherein
there shall be kept, stored, concealed or allowed any alcoholic liquor intended
for illegal sale or to be sold, disposed of or in any other manner used in
violation of any of the provisions of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes, as
amended.  (1976 Code § 10-100; amd. Ord. 2001-72, 12-13-2001; Ord. 2017-51, 9-
21-2017; Ord. 2024-2, 1-18-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  8-1J-4 of this Code.
2 1. See also subsections
  4-2-2D and 4-2-5D and F of this Title.
3 2. See also Section
  3-1-11-2 of this Code.
4 3. See also Chapter 2 of this Title.
5 1. See also title 6, chapter 10 of this Code.
6 1. See also section
  7-4-6 of this Code.
2 2. See also title 3, chapter 3 of this Code.
4-1-2: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice To Abate: Except where otherwise provided by this Code, the
Village Administrator, Police Chief, Director of Public Works or Director of
Community Development may serve or cause to be served a notice, in writing,
upon the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession, charge or control of
any lot, building or premises or item of personalty in or upon which any
nuisance exists, requiring them, or either or all of them, to abate the same
within a specified reasonable time, in such manner as the notice shall direct.
(1976 Code §10-101; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-2010)
   B.   Abatement By Village: If the person so served and notified does not
abate the nuisance within the specified reasonable time, the Corporate
Authorities may proceed to abate the nuisance in any and all manners allowable
by law, including, without limiting the generality thereof, the following:
      1.   Seeking to impose a monetary penalty as defined by subsection
4-1-3A of this chapter by instituting an ordinance enforcement action.
      2.   Seeking to enjoin the continuation of the nuisance by the filing of
a lawsuit in a court of competent jurisdiction. (1976 Code §10-102)
   C.   Summary Abatement: Whenever, in the opinion of one of the Village
officers designated in subsection A of this section, the maintenance or
continuation of a nuisance creates an imminent threat of serious injury to
persons or serious damage to personal or real property, or if the nuisance can
be abated summarily without or with only minor damage to the items or premises
which are creating the nuisance, and the continuation of the nuisance poses a
substantial threat of injury to persons or property or a substantial
interference with the quiet enjoyment of life normally present in the
community, such officer shall proceed to abate such nuisance; provided,
further, that whenever the owner, occupant, agent or person in possession, in
charge or control of the real or personal property which has become a nuisance
is unknown or cannot readily be found, such officer may proceed to abate such
nuisance without notice. Where the abatement of a nuisance requires continuing
acts by the Corporate Authorities beyond the initial summary abatement and any
other additional emergency abatements, it shall seek abatement of such nuisance
on a permanent basis through judicial process as soon as reasonably
practicable. (1976 Code §10-103)
4-1-3: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than the maximum amount permitted by section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that a violation is allowed to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (1976 Code §10-104; amd. Ord. 96-26, 6-13-1996)
   B.   Citations: Any person charged with a violation of any provision of
section
4-1-1 of this chapter may, in lieu of prosecution for a violation thereof, make
payment in accordance with subsection
1-4-2G6 of this Code. (1976 Code §10-100.1)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Refuse Accumulation And Storage Regulations
4-2-2-1: Additional Regulations For Residential Establishments
4-2-2-2: Additional Regulations For Commercial Establishments
4-2-3: Recyclable Material Program
4-2-4: Landscape Waste Collection Program
4-2-5: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-2-6: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall be construed as herein defined:
BULK ITEMS: Discarded furniture, bedding, appliances, equipment, bicycles,
sleds, swing sets, large tools and comparable items.
COMMERCIAL SCAVENGER SERVICE: The collection or disposal of refuse from
business establishments of all kinds, including multiple dwellings having more
than four (4) dwelling units. (1976 Code §8-11)
COMPOST BIN: A container no larger than one hundred twenty five (125) cubic
feet and no taller than five feet (5'), designed to hold compostible material
in such a way as to not allow the material to be windblown. Composting bins are
to be made from one or a combination of the following materials: snow fence,
woven wire, brick or cement block, wood or prefabricated plastic.
COMPOST PILE: An accumulation of compostible materials.
COMPOSTIBLE MATERIAL: Accumulations of leaves, grass clippings, garden debris,
brush, tree clippings and other plant material accumulated as the result of the
maintenance of lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees.
COMPOSTING: A controlled biological reduction of organic wastes to humus.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: Shall have the same meaning as "compostible material" as
defined elsewhere in this Section.
LANDSCAPE WASTE TOTER: A ninety-five (95) gallon wheeled toter leased from the
scavenger.
LANDSCAPE WASTE UNIT: A landscape waste unit may be any of the following:
   A.   Landscape waste packaged in one kraft paper bag not exceeding thirty
(30) gallons of capacity weighing up to fifty (50) pounds;
   B.   Landscape waste contained in one residential waste container (excluding
plastic bags not exceeding thirty five (35) gallons of capacity weighing up to
fifty (50) pounds; or
   C.   One bundle of brush, vines and/or branches (no such piece of brush,
vine or branch shall exceed 2 inches in diameter) not exceeding two feet (2')
in diameter and four feet (4') in length weighing up to sixty (60) pounds; said
bundle to be securely tied only with jute string. Securing with plastic or wire
is prohibited.
MULTIPLE DWELLING: A building or a part of building designed, intended or used
as an apartment house, apartment, hotel, tenement, house or other use in which
there is more than one dwelling unit.
PREMISES: Any house, residence building, flat, apartment, dwelling place or
place of abode, commercial or industrial establishment, office building, hotel,
church, school, hospital, club building or meeting hall, or any other business
or institutional establishment.
RECYCLABLE MATERIAL: Newsprint, magazines, flyers/copy paper, gift wrapping
paper, kraft paper bags, chipboard, corrugated cardboard, juice boxes and
"gable-topped" cartons, wet and dry strength paperboard (cereal boxes, soda
cases, frozen food boxes, etc.), polystyrene #6, aluminum cans, glass jars (all
colors), steel, aluminum, tin, empty paint cans and lids, aluminum foil, and
bi-metal cans, laundry detergent containers, milk and water bottles, high
density polyethylene (HDPE), narrow neck containers only like household
cleaners, health and beauty products (PVC), yogurt cups, ketchup bottles,
plastic resin grocery narrow neck containers, polyethylene terepthalate (PET),
plastic 6 and 12 pack rings, empty aerosol cans, 2 liter soda bottles, plastic
plates and trays, plastic flower pots, and additional items as mutually agreed
upon by the Village and the scavenger.
RECYCLABLE MATERIAL PROGRAM AREA: All single-family detached residences within
the Village and all single-family attached residences who receive curbside
pick-up of refuse.
REFUSE: Waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption
of food; waste from the handling, storage and sale of produce; combustible
trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood,
excelsior, wood furniture, bedding; noncombustible trash including, but not
limited to, metals, tin cans, metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock
and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery, other mineral wastes; street rubbish
including, but not limited to, street sweepings, dirt, catch basin dirt,
contents of litter receptacles, but refuse does not mean earthen waste from
building operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting from
industrial processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing
wastes, boiler house cinders, lumber, scraps and shavings.
Notwithstanding anything contained hereinabove to the contrary, the term
"refuse" shall not be deemed to include recyclable materials or landscape
waste.
RESIDENCE: A building which is arranged, designed, used or intended to be used
for residential occupancy by one or more families, but does not include a
multiple dwelling building of more than four (4) dwelling units.
RESIDENTIAL SCAVENGER SERVICE: The collection or disposal of refuse from all
homes and residences including multiple dwellings of not more than four (4)
residential units.
WASTE CONTAINERS:
   A.   Residential: The term "waste container" as used herein for residences
receiving residential scavenger service shall mean plastic bags suitable for
the holding of garbage and refuse, receptacles of impervious material such as
galvanized metal or plastic of a suitable gauge and construction to insure
durability, with a tight-fitting cover, rodent and flyproof, of a type commonly
sold as a garbage can; equipped with at least two (2) handles properly placed
to facilitate handling, of a capacity of not less than twenty (20) nor more
than thirty two (32) gallons.
   B.   Recycling Container: A blue high density polyethylene container,
equipped with handles, of a capacity of twenty (20) gallons provided by the
Village, or any blue container of sufficient wet strength to hold original
shape until contents are placed in the scavenger's vehicle.
   C.   Commercial: The term "waste container" as used herein for those
premises receiving commercial scavenger service shall mean receptacles of
impervious material, such as galvanized metal of a suitable gauge and
construction to insure durability, with a tight-fitting cover, rodent and
flyproof, of the type (1 to 8 cubic yard capacity) supplied by the scavenger
and emptied mechanically into a "packer-type" vehicle or a receptacle of not
less than twenty (20) nor more than thirty two (32) gallons' capacity, of
impervious material and sturdy construction, with a tight-fitting cover and
equipped with handles properly placed to facilitate handling. Containers that
do not meet the above criteria shall be considered in violation of this
Chapter. (Ord. 83-05, § 1; amd. Ord. 89-63, 11-9-89; Ord. 90-24, 4-26-1990;
Ord. 90-40, 6-14-1990; Ord. 92-15, 4-23-1992; Ord. 94-27, 4-28-1994; Ord. 2024-
48, 10-3-2024)
4-2-2: REFUSE ACCUMULATION AND STORAGE REGULATIONS:
The following regulations shall apply to all persons receiving either
residential or commercial scavenger service, except as otherwise noted:
   A.   Refuse Accumulations Prohibited:
      1.   The occupancy of any premises for residential purposes shall be
prima facie evidence that waste is being produced and accumulated on such
premises.
      2.   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant and/or agent of any
premises located within the Village to keep said premises free and clean from
refuse at all times.
      3.   Cleanliness or neatness of any private alley is a direct
responsibility of the owners or tenants who occupy the premises adjacent to any
such alley. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit the accumulation of
any refuse on that portion of any private alley adjacent to any such person's
premises unless such refuse is properly enclosed in waste containers.
   B.   Refuse Removal Required 1 :
      1.   Refuse shall be removed from any and all premises within the Village
at least once a week; provided, however, every owner, occupant and/or agent of
any premises shall cause all refuse to be removed from any and all premises as
often as is necessary to comply with subsection A above.
      2.   It shall be the duty of every person owning or occupying any
premises, or portions thereof, to remove or cause to be removed therefrom,
before vacating the same, any and all refuse or any other waste.
   C.   Refuse Storage Restrictions:
      1.   No person shall permit any refuse to accumulate within the Village
unless said refuse shall be suitably enclosed in waste containers.
      2.   All waste containers shall be as previously defined and no other
type of container shall be acceptable. A sufficient number of waste containers
for a weekly accumulation of refuse shall be provided and at all times
maintained in good order and repair by the owner, occupant or agent of any
premises in the Village. All waste containers shall be kept clean and
disinfected with an antiseptic solution as often as necessary to maintain them
in a sanitary condition. Filthy, leaky or defective receptacles shall be
cleaned, repaired or replaced by the owner, occupant or agent of the premises
served.
      3.   It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant or agent of any premises
to cause all refuse produced on the premises to be thoroughly drained of all
surplus liquid, securely wrapped or bagged in paper or plastic, bundled or
packed in a covered box or carton of such dimensions as will permit its free
passage into and out of the waste container, and finally deposited, after such
wrapping, bagging, bundling or packaging in such waste container, as soon as
practicable after the same is produced thereon. All refuse shall be securely
wrapped, bagged, bundled or packed in such a manner as may be necessary to
prevent the scattering of same, and shall be deposited in a waste container as
prescribed herein.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in any waste
container any article or thing other than refuse or recyclable material as
defined in this Chapter.
      5.   It shall be unlawful to dispose of any refuse in such a manner that
the wind, sun, rain or snow scatters said refuse.
   D.   Disposal of Dead Animals 1 : Dead animals are not considered refuse and
shall not be disposed of in waste containers. Dead animals may only be disposed
of in accordance with all applicable health regulations.
   E.   No person shall transport waste, or cause waste to be transported, over
the streets, or other public ways in the Village unless such waste being
transported is entirely and securely covered. Garbage shall not be transported
over or along the streets of the Village or other public property thereof,
except in a leakproof, compaction type body, commonly referred to as a "packer
type" refuse body, approved by the Village. (Ord. 83-05, §1; amd. Ord. 86-03,
§1; Ord. 92-15, 4-23-1992; Ord. 2024-48, 10-3-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  3-1-11-3 of this Code.
  1. See also subsection
1 4-1-1D of this title and subsections
  4-2-5D and F of this chapter.
4-2-2-1: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
Notwithstanding any provisions of this Section
4-2-2 to the contrary, the following regulations shall apply to all persons
receiving residential scavenger service:
   A.   The owner or occupant of every single-family dwelling unit shall
provide and maintain in good condition and repair not less than one residential
waste container. The owner or agent of every multiple dwelling having not more
than four (4) dwelling units shall provide and maintain in good condition and
repair not less than one waste container per dwelling unit.
   B.   Waste containers, landscape waste units and landscape waste toters and
recycling containers are to be stored at the side or rear of the residence,
except from three o'clock (3:00) P.M. on the day prior to collection to eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. on the day of collection, when said waste containers,
landscape waste units, landscape waste toters and recycling containers may be
placed at the curb.
   C.   The items which may be placed for collection and pickup shall be
limited as follows:
      1.   An unlimited number of residential waste containers, with waste
hauler issued containers being the primary containers used.
      2.   An unlimited number of landscape waste units and/or landscape waste
toters.
      3.   An unlimited quantity of recyclable material contained in one or
more recycling container(s).
      4.   Upon notice to the licensee by any residential customer, one bulk
item on the day in any week when collection or pickup service is provided. Said
bulk item need not be placed or stored in a waste container, provided that said
bulk item shall only be placed at the curb on the day of collection.
   D.   A service fee which shall be determined from time to time by the
contract entered into between the Village and the scavenger shall be imposed
for the collection of each waste container of refuse and each bulk item. The
payment of such service fee shall be a flat rate fee billed by the waste
hauler. (Ord. 89-63, 11-9-1989; Ord. 92-15, 4-23-1992; Ord. 94-27, 4-28-1994;
Ord. 2024-48, 10-3-2024)
4-2-2-2: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
Notwithstanding any provisions in this Section
4-2-2 to the contrary, all persons who receive commercial scavenger service
shall be subject to the following additional regulations:
   A.   Waste containers may be located anywhere on a lot; except, that should
said waste containers be located in a required front yard or in an exterior
side yard, said containers must be adequately screened from public view with a
solid type fencing not less than five feet (5') in height; provided, that the
height of said fencing shall exceed by no more than twelve inches (12") the
height of the waste containers. Said fencing shall enclose the waste containers
on no less than three (3) sides.
   B.   A special pick up shall be arranged for all bulk items and said bulk
items shall remain within an enclosed building until said special pick up.
   C.   No refuse or waste container shall be placed at the curb. (1976 Code
§8-12)
4-2-3: RECYCLABLE MATERIAL PROGRAM:
   A.   Findings: The village has determined that it is in the best interests
of its residents and in furtherance of the public health, welfare and safety to
institute a program for the recycling of recyclable material within the
recyclable material program area.
   B.   Contract For Collection:
      1.   The village may, from time to time, enter into a contract with any
person providing for the collection of recyclable material within the
recyclable material program area upon such terms as the village deems
advisable. To the extent that any terms or conditions of any such contract
conflict with any provision of this code, the term of condition set forth in
such contract shall control. (Ord. 89-63, 11-9-1989)
      2.   Notwithstanding any provision contained in this code to the
contrary, no person, whether licensed as a scavenger 1  (residential or
commercial) or not, shall purchase and/or collect recyclable material within
the recyclable material program area unless authorized by the village to do so,
pursuant to a contract entered into pursuant to this subsection B. (Ord. 89-63,
11-9-1989; amd. Ord. 92-15, 4-23-1992)
      3.   Any scavenger who violates any provision of this section shall be
subject to license suspension or revocation proceedings.
   C.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person to place for
collection or pick up any landscape waste or refuse contained in a recycling
container. (Ord. 92-15, 4-23-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See article A of this chapter.
4-2-4: LANDSCAPE WASTE COLLECTION PROGRAM:
   A.   Findings: The village has determined that it is in the best interests
of its residents, and in furtherance of state law and the public health,
welfare and safety, to institute a program for the collection and disposal of
landscape waste as well as optional curbside composting within the village.
Residents who wish to participate in the option curbside composting program can
do so through the Village's contracted scavenger service provider.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person:
      1.   To mix landscape waste or composting waste that is intended for
collection or disposal at a landfill with any refuse.
      2.   To place for collection and pick up any landscape waste or
composting waste unless it is packaged as a landscape waste or composting unit
or in a landscape waste or composting toter.
   C.   Contract For Collection:
      1.   The village may, from time to time, enter into a contract with any
person providing for the collection of landscape waste within the village, upon
such terms and conditions as the village deems advisable. To the extent that
any terms or conditions of any such contract conflict with a provision of this
code, the terms or conditions set forth in such contract shall control.
      2.   Any scavenger who violates any provision of this section shall be
subject to license suspension or revocation proceedings.
   D.   Flat-Rate Service Fee Pick Up Program:
      1.   A flat-rate program fee which shall be determined from time to time
by the village and the scavenger shall be imposed for the collection of each
refuse and landscape waste unit within the village.
      2.   The landscape waste and optional composting program is a once per
week, curbside pick up program. It shall operate between April 1 and December
15 of each year. (Ord. 90-40, 6-14-1990; amd. Ord. 92-15, 4-23-1992; Ord. 2024-
48, 10-3-2024)
4-2-5: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
It shall be unlawful: (1976 Code §8-13)
   A.   Reserved. (Ord. 2011-45, 9-8-2011)
   B.   Burying Refuse: To bury refuse, landscape waste and/or recyclable
material at any time within the village limits. (1976 Code §8-14)
   C.   Storage Creating A Fire Hazard: To permit the storage of or to store
any refuse, landscape waste and/or recyclable material in any such way as to
create a fire hazard. (1976 Code §8-15)
   D   Unsanitary Deposits 1 : For any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon any public or private property within
the village, the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth or noisome
substance. (1976 Code §8-16)
   E.   Unauthorized Dumping: For any person to dump, deposit or place any
refuse, landscape waste and/or recyclable material upon real property owned by
another without the consent of the owner or person in possession of such real
property, and otherwise in conformance with all applicable regulations set
forth in this chapter. (1976 Code §8-17)
   F.   Dumping Into Bodies Of Water, Sewers, Streets 2 : To dump or deposit
refuse, landscape waste and/or recyclable material, construction waste, the
carcass of any dead animal or any offal, filth or noisome substance or any
other offensive matter in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or common
sewer, street or public highway. (1976 Code §8-18)
   G.   Sweeping Into Streets: For any person to sweep or deposit any sweeping
from any sidewalk, driveway, building or any construction activity onto any
public or private street, alley or parkway. (1976 Code §8-19)
   H.   Certain Other Offenses: For any person, other than the owner to:
      1.   Obtain or exert unauthorized control over a refuse and recycling
container; or
      2.   Obtain, by deception, control over a refuse and recycling container;
or
      3.   Obtain, by threat, control over a refuse and recycling container; or
      4.   Obtain control of a stolen refuse and recycling container knowing
any of such to have been stolen or under such circumstances as would reasonably
induce such person to believe that any of such property was stolen; and, when
such person:
         a.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
any of such property; or
         b.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such a
manner as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
         c.   Uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit. (Ord. 90-40, 6-14-1990; amd. Ord. 92-15, 4-23-1992; Ord. 2024-
48, 10-3-2024)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 4-1-1D of this title and subsection
  4-2-2D of this chapter.
2 2. See also subsection
  4-1-1D2 of this title.
4-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person charged with a violation of subsection
4-2-2-1B, 4-2-5C or D, or 4-2-3B2 of this chapter may, in lieu of prosecution
for a violation thereof, make payment in accordance with section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 90-40, 6-14-1990; amd. Ord. 2011-45, 9-8-2011)
ARTICLE A. SCAVENGERS
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Licenses Required; Exemptions
4-2A-2: License Fees
4-2A-3: Bids Required For Residential Scavenger Service
4-2A-4: Number Of Licenses; Terms
4-2A-5: Scavenger Service Standards And Specifications
4-2A-5-1: Additional Standards And Specifications For Residential Scavenger
Service
4-2A-5-2: Additional Standards And Specifications For Commercial Scavenger
Service
4-2A-6: Revocation Or Suspension Of Licenses
4-2A-7: Penalty
4-2A-1: LICENSES REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Residential Scavenger Service:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the scavenger
business or in the collection or disposal of animal, vegetable or other refuse,
recyclable material or landscape waste, without first having obtained a license
therefor.
      2.   Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to the contrary, no
person, whether licensed as a scavenger or not, shall purchase and/or collect
recyclable material within the recyclable material program area unless
authorized by the village to do so, pursuant to a contract entered into
pursuant to section
4-2-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 90-40, 6-14-1990; amd. Ord. 92-15, 4-23-1992)
Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to the contrary, no person,
whether licensed as a scavenger or not, shall purchase and/or collect landscape
waste within the village unless authorized by the village to do so, pursuant to
a contract entered into pursuant to section
4-2-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 90-40, 6-14-1990)
   B.   Commercial Scavenger Service: It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in the business of providing commercial scavenger services within the
village limits without first having obtained a license therefor. (1976 Code §8-
24)
   C.   Exemptions From License: A contractor, developer, builder, craftsman,
installer, serviceman and the like need not be licensed or have a permit by
reason of any requirements set forth in this chapter in order to privately
remove the debris caused by their normal operations; however, such persons must
otherwise conform with the regulations contained in this code. In addition, the
scavenger service need not be licensed or have a permit by reason of any
requirements set forth in this chapter in order to remove trees, logs, brush,
limbs of trees or junked cars. (1976 Code §8-28)
4-2A-2: LICENSE FEES:
The fees for residential and commercial scavenger service licenses shall be as
provided by subsection 3-1A-3C4 of this code. (1976 Code §8-26)
4-2A-3: BIDS REQUIRED FOR RESIDENTIAL SCAVENGER SERVICE:
All residential scavenger service licenses shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder after advertising for bids in the manner prescribed in
subsection
1-8-4-2B of this code. Bid specifications for the award of a residential
scavenger service license shall set forth those standards and specifications
hereinafter imposed. In addition, the village administrator shall have the
authority to impose such other specifications and standards as he shall deem
necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
village. (1976 Code §8-23)
4-2A-4: NUMBER OF LICENSES; TERMS:
   A.   Residential Scavenger Service: One license to engage in the business of
providing residential scavenger services shall be issued and in force at any
one time. Each license awarded hereunder shall be an annual license, the term
of which shall be as provided for in section
3-1-7 of this code. (1976 Code §8-22)
   B.   Commercial Scavenger Service: There shall be no limit on the number of
commercial scavenger licenses; provided, however, that each licensee shall at
all times comply with the standards and specifications set forth in this
chapter. (1976 Code §8-25)
4-2A-5: SCAVENGER SERVICE STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
The following standards and specifications shall apply to all persons holding a
residential or commercial scavenger service license:
   A.   Bond And Insurance Requirements:
      1.   Bond: Prior to the issuance of any license, the licensee shall file
with the village clerk a performance bond in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) with sureties, in a form acceptable to the village.
      2.   Insurance: Prior to the issuance of any license, the licensee shall
provide the village with evidence that said licensee has currently in force
adequate workers' compensation insurance and a policy of general liability
insurance with such limits and coverages as the village may from time to time
require. Each licensee shall indemnify and hold the village harmless from and
against claims for damages arising by reason of the performance or
nonperformance of the licensee hereunder or by reason of any act or omission of
said licensee. The village clerk shall require the licensee to produce a
certificate of insurance indicating the insurance required hereunder shall be
in force during the term of the license; said certificate to reflect that the
village shall be an insured party thereunder. (1976 Code §8-29)
   B.   Vehicle Requirements: The licensee shall use modern loader trucks and
keep all equipment used in performance of its work in a clean, sanitary
condition and not permit the same to remain standing anywhere in the village.
All trucks used for residential refuse collection shall be enclosed and of a
leakproof packer type. Recyclable refuse shall be collected in a vehicle
appropriate for this purpose. Landscape materials shall be collected in a
leakproof packer type.
   C.   Disposal Of Refuse:
      1.   All refuse collected by a licensee shall be disposed of by the
licensee at his own expense outside the corporate limits of the village.
Recyclable refuse shall be disposed of at a proper processing facility or a
materials vendor. Landscape waste shall be disposed of at a site in conformance
with state requirements. It shall be unlawful for any licensee to dispose of or
store any refuse in any place within the village limits.
      2.   All refuse collected by any licensee shall be disposed of in
accordance with all applicable statutes of the state of Illinois and the
ordinances of the village.
   D.   Holiday Pick Ups: When a scheduled pick up day falls on a holiday, the
refuse shall be picked up on the next business day occurring immediately
thereafter.
   E.   Customer Service: The licensee shall provide an area office and
telephone number for the receipt of service calls or complaints, and shall have
an employee available to receive such calls on working days from eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. to four o'clock (4:00) P.M. Complaints shall be given prompt and
courteous attention. In case of missed scheduled collections, the licensee
shall investigate and, if the claim is valid, shall arrange for a pick up of
the refuse in question within twenty four (24) hours after the complaint is
received. Any complaints received at the village hall will be immediately
forwarded to the licensee who shall arrange for a pick up of any missed
service. All licensees shall maintain a log of every complaint received, the
date received, the person making the complaint, any action taken and the date
such action is taken. Such complaint log shall at all times be available for
inspection by the village.
   F.   Employees Under The Influence Of Liquor Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any licensee, his agents, servants or employees to be performing
scavenger services within the village while under the influence of intoxicating
liquors. Said violation will subject a licensee to license revocation.
   G.   The licensee shall immediately clean up, at his own expense, any waste
that he may have caused to spill on private premises, parkway, streets, alleys,
or other public places, in a neat and workmanlike manner. (Ord. 83-05, §1; amd.
Ord. 89-63, 11-9-1989; Ord. 2024-48, 10-3-2024)
4-2A-5-1: ADDITIONAL STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL SCAVENGER
SERVICE:
In addition to the standards and specifications set forth in section
4-2A-5 of this article, any residential scavenger service licensee shall comply
with the following standards and specifications:
   A.   The items which may be placed for collection and pick up shall be
limited as follows:
      1.   An unlimited number of residential waste containers with waste
hauler issued containers being the primary containers used.
      2.   An unlimited number of landscape waste units and/or landscape waste
toters.
      3.   An unlimited quantity of recyclable material contained in one or
more recycling container(s).
      4.   Upon notice to the licensee by any residential customer, one bulk
item on the day in any week when collection or pick up service is provided.
Said bulk item need not be placed or stored in a waste container, provided that
said bulk item shall only be placed at the curb on the day of collection.
The licensee shall collect and pick up all refuse, landscape waste and
recyclable material from each residence per pick up in accordance with the
provisions of this code. Such pick ups shall be from the front curb.
   B.   When any residential customer has accumulated refuse in excess of that
permitted in subsection A of this section, said customer shall request that a
special pick up be made by the licensee. The licensee shall provide pick up
service on special request from any residential customer. All special pick ups
shall be made at a flat rate charge. When a special pick up occurs on a day
other than the regularly scheduled pick up day, the licensee shall remove
refuse located or stored behind the building line. Picking up from the curb is
not permitted on any day other than the regularly scheduled pick up day. The
licensee shall have at least one approved vehicle in operation for the
collection of refuse for not more than five (5) days each week within the
village.
   C.   Collection shall be made from each residence or location once each
week, in accordance with the bid specifications.
   D.   The licensee shall collect discarded Christmas trees from each
residence on an annual basis, as provided for in the contract entered into
between the village and the licensee.
   E.   Collection rates shall be as provided for in the contract entered into
between the village and the licensee. (Ord. 83-05, § 1; Ord. 92-15, 4-23-1992;
Ord. 94-27, 4-28-1994; Ord. 2024-48, 10-3-2024)
4-2A-5-2: ADDITIONAL STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL SCAVENGER
SERVICE:
Any person issued a commercial scavenger service license shall, in addition to
the standards and specifications set forth in section
4-2A-5 of this article, comply with the following additional standards and
specifications:
   A.   Collection And Pick Up: The licensee shall collect and pick up all
refuse from each premises served by said licensee. There shall be no curb pick
up.
   B.   Schedule: Collection shall be made from each premises at least once
each week, according to a schedule to be agreed upon by the licensee and the
commercial customer.
   C.   Rates: Collection rates shall be as agreed upon by and between the
licensee and the commercial customer. (Ord. 83-05, §1)
   D.   Certain Hours Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any commercial
scavenger service licensee to collect, pick up or dispose of refuse or any
other material within the corporate limits of the Village from nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 2017-51, 9-21-2017)
4-2A-6: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSES:
Residential and commercial scavenger service licenses may be revoked and/or
suspended pursuant to the procedure set forth in section
3-1-14 of this Code. (Ord. 83-05, §1)
4-2A-7: PENALTY:
Any person charged with a violation of subsection
4-2A-5-2D of this article may, in lieu of prosecution for a violation thereof,
make payment in accordance with section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 2011-45, 9-8-2011)
ARTICLE B. COMPOSTING AND COMPOST PILES
SECTION:
4-2B-1: Businesses Applying Compostible Materials
4-2B-2: Residential Regulations
4-2B-1: BUSINESSES APPLYING COMPOSTIBLE MATERIALS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of land application of compostible material within the Village limits
without first having obtained a license therefor. (Ord. 90-24, 4-26-90)
   B.   Application for License: Prior to the issuance of a license, the
licensee shall submit an application for the operation of a compostible
material land application site. Each application shall include such information
as may be prescribed by the Village Administrator, including but not limited
to:
      1.   The name of the applicant.
      2.   The location to be used.
      3.   The hours of operation.
      4.   The total area, in square feet, of the operation.
      5.   The approximate amount of compostible materials, in cubic yards, to
be administered to the site.
      6.   A complete description of the operation, including measures to be
taken if odor problems result.
   C.   Bond: Prior to the issuance of any license, the licensee shall file
with the Village Clerk a performance bond in the amount of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00), with sureties, in a form acceptable to the Village.
   D.   Business Operation Standards: The standards contained herein shall be
followed:
      1.   The materials to be applied shall be restricted to only compostible
material.
      2.   All compostible material collected at the site shall be applied to
the area designated in the license immediately, but in no event later than
seven (7) days after being brought to the site.
      3.   Application of compostible material shall be limited to days on
which the licensee is able to disc-in the compostible materials.
      4.   Each application of compostible material shall be disced-in.
      5.   In no event shall the licensee apply more than six inches (6") of
compostible material prior to discing-in the compostible materials.
   E.   Minimum Size of Application Site: In no event shall the land
application site be less than one hundred (100) acres.
   F.   Nuisance Conditions: The licensee shall use every effort to maintain
the compostible material and application site so as to limit odor and blowing
debris.
   G.   Conditions of License: Any license issued pursuant to this Section may
contain such conditions as the Village deems necessary to further the health,
welfare and safety of the residents of the Village, including but not limited
to a condition that any licensee give preference to the person designated by
the Village to collect and dispose of compostible material generated by
residents of the Village. (Ord. 90-24, 4-26-90)
4-2B-2: RESIDENTIAL REGULATIONS:
The following regulations shall apply to all persons, except as otherwise
provided for in Section
4-2B-1 of this Article.
   A.   Compost to be in Bins: No composting shall be permitted except in
accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   All compostible material shall be enclosed in a compost bin.
      2.   All compost bins shall be so maintained as to prevent the attraction
or harborage of rodents and pests.
      3.   All compost bins shall be so maintained as to prevent unpleasant
odors.
      4.   No compost bins shall be located in any yard except as follows:
         a.   In a rear yard not less than three feet (3') from all lot lines.
         b.   In a side yard no closer to any lot line than the required side
setbacks prescribed in the zoning district in which it is located.
         c.   In no event shall a compost bin be located in any side or rear
yard drainage or utility easement.
         d.   In no event shall a compost bin be located nearer than twenty
feet (20') to a principal structure on an adjacent property.
   B.   Ingredients of Compost Piles:
      1.   Permitted Ingredients: Compost piles shall only be composed of the
following materials:
         a.   Compostible material.
         b.   Commercial compost additives.
      2.   Prohibited Ingredients: Except as permitted above, no other material
shall be placed in a compost pile. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing prohibition, the following specific materials shall not be placed in
a compost pile and shall not be deemed to be compostible material.
         a.   Lakeweeds.
         b.   Cooked food scraps.
         c.   Fish, meat or other animal products.
         d.   Manures.
   C.   Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate,
maintain or permit a compost pile in violation of this section. (Ord. 90-29, 9-
10-1990)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Duty To Destroy Weeds; Notice
4-3-3: Weed Removal By Village; Lien
4-3-4: Exemptions From Provisions
4-3-5: Violations
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
IMPROPER GROWTH OF WEEDS OR GRASSES: All accumulations of weeds and grasses
over eight inches (8") in height.
NOXIOUS WEEDS: Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense) and all of its varieties,
perennial sow thistle (Sonchus arvensis), leafy spurge (Titymalus esula),
Russian knapweed (Centaurea repens), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense) and
Sorghum almum and crosses derived therefrom, giant foxtail (Setaria faberii),
hoary cress (Lepidium draba) and ragweed (Ambrosia). (1976 Code §21-1; amd.
1991 Code; Ord. 92-30, 6-11-1992)
4-3-2: DUTY TO DESTROY WEEDS; NOTICE:
   A.   Methods Of Destruction:
      1.   Every owner of real property shall destroy noxious weeds growing on
such real property before said noxious weeds reach the seed bearing stage.
      2.   Every owner of real property shall cut or destroy improper growths
of weeds or grasses located on such real property.
   B.   Notice To Destroy: The village shall cause a notice to be served upon
any owner who violates any provision of subsection A of this section. (1976
Code §21-2)
Said notice shall give a summary of the provisions of this chapter and shall
require the owner to destroy or cut said noxious weeds or improper growth of
weeds or grasses within seven (7) days after the delivery of said notice. Only
one such notice shall be sent to the owner of any premises in a given calendar
year. This notice shall be a notice for the specific violation contained in
said notice and notice for any other subsequent violation in that same calendar
year. (Ord. 92-30, 6-11-1992)
The written notice required by this subsection shall be deemed delivered when
deposited in the United States mail, first class, postage prepaid, addressed to
the owner at the address of the property on which noxious weeds or improper
growth of weeds or grasses exist or in the case of vacant land, to the owner as
listed in the village records. (1976 Code §21-4)
4-3-3: WEED REMOVAL BY VILLAGE; LIEN:
Should any owner refuse or neglect to comply with any notice provided for
hereinabove, the village or its agents shall enter upon such real property and
shall cut or destroy any such noxious weeds or improper growth of weeds or
grasses. Any cost thereof shall be paid by the owner of such real property.
This cost is a lien upon the real property affected in accordance with 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-7. Should the village be required to file a
lien against any owner, said owner shall also be liable to the village for the
cost involved in the filing and releasing of said lien. (1976 Code §21-2)
4-3-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The following shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
   A.   Lands under active agricultural cultivation; provided, however, that
this exemption shall not apply to lands in a fallow state.
   B.   Ornamental plants.
   C.   Vegetable gardens.
   D.   Wildlife refuge.
   E.   Forest preserve. (1976 Code §21-3)
4-3-5: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this chapter.
Compliance with a notice delivered pursuant to subsection
4-3-2B of this chapter does not relieve an owner of liability for violation of
subsection
4-3-2A of this chapter. Any person charged with a violation of subsection
4-3-2A of this chapter may, in lieu of prosecution for violation thereof, make
payment in accordance with section
1-4-2 of this code. (1976 Code §21-5; amd. 1991 Code)
CHAPTER 4
REGIONAL POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY SITING
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Application For Siting Approval
4-4-3: Village Review
4-4-4: Information From Other Parties
4-4-5: Public Hearing
4-4-6: Public Comment
4-4-7: Records Kept
4-4-8: Siting Approval Decision
4-4-9: Administration Of Fees And Costs
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following terms are used in this chapter, they shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them as hereinafter provided:
ACT: "The environmental protection act", being 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/1 et seq.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm or partnership, association, corporation, municipal
corporation or unit of local government, company or organization of any kind
who files a request for siting approval pursuant to this chapter.
IEPA: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
VILLAGE: Village of Woodridge, DuPage and Will Counties, Illinois.
VILLAGE BOARD: The corporate authorities of the village.
In addition, all other words used in this chapter and defined in the act shall
have the same definitions and meanings as set forth in the act. (Ord. 91-27, 5-
23-1991)
4-4-2: APPLICATION FOR SITING APPROVAL:
   A.   A minimum of twenty (20) complete copies of requests for siting
approval, including twenty (20) copies of all site plans, exhibits and maps,
shall be delivered to the office of the village clerk. Upon receipt of any such
request for siting approval, the village clerk shall date stamp same and
immediately deliver eight (8) copies of the request for siting approval to the
village board and village administrator, one copy of the request for siting
approval to the director of public works, one copy to the village engineer and
one copy to the office of the village legal counsel. The applicant shall also
file one additional copy of the request for siting approval with the counties
of DuPage and Will and each municipality within one and one-half (11/2) miles
of the proposed facility. (Ord. 91-27, 5-23-1991; amd. Ord. 2011-21, 5-12-2011)
   B.   A copy of the request for siting approval shall be made available for
public inspection in the office of the village clerk, and members of the public
shall be allowed to obtain a copy of the request for siting approval or any
part thereof upon payment of the actual cost of reproduction. All copying
requests shall be fulfilled by the village clerk within a reasonable time from
the time of the request and otherwise in conformance with the freedom of
information act 1 .
   C.   Requests for siting approval shall include the following:
      1.   A written petition on eight and one-half inches by eleven inches
(81/2" x 11") paper which sets forth:
         a.   The identification of the applicant and owner and, if the
proposed site is owned in a land trust, each beneficiary of such land trust by
name and address and his or her defined interest therein and, if different than
the beneficiary(ies), the name and address of the person(s) holding the power
of direction in such land trust.
         b.   The legal description of the proposed site and a street address
or some other reasonable description of where the proposed site is located.
         c.   A description of the proposed facility, its operation and the
expected longevity thereof.
         d.   The area to be served by the proposed facility and a statement of
the needs in such area for such a facility.
         e.   A list of the existing regional pollution control facilities
located within or serving or capable of serving the area proposed to be served
and, with respect to each such facility, the following information shall be
provided: location, size, owner and/or operator, type of pollution control
facility, remaining capacity, probable life of the proposed facility and types
of wastes received.
         f.   The expected types, amounts and methods of treatment or storage
of all wastes proposed for the site and the origins of these wastes.
         g.   A description of the geologic and hydrogeologic character of the
site, including core samples, and the monitoring plans, including background
analyses for groundwater, surface water and air.
         h.   Reasons supporting approval of the request.
         i.   A prayer for siting approval.
      2.   The request for a permit made to the Illinois environmental
protection agency, if any such request has been made.
      3.   A site plan showing details of the proposed facility including, but
not limited to:
         a.   Cross sections;
         b.   All existing wells within five hundred feet (500') of the site;
         c.   All monitoring wells;
         d.   Fences, buildings and other structures;
         e.   Roads, entrances and driveways; and
         f.   Core sample locations on and within two hundred feet (200') of
the site.
      4.   A detailed topographic survey of the subject site and the
surrounding area within five hundred feet (500') which indicates land use and,
if applicable, the boundary of the 100-year floodplain.
      5.   A statement of the plan of operation for the proposed facility
including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   Method of landfilling, incineration, composting, resource
recovery or other process;
         b.   Hours of operation;
         c.   Personnel and their training;
         d.   Litter, vector, dust and odor control;
         e.   Surface drainage and erosion control;
         f.   Fire control;
         g.   Corrective actions for spills and other operational accidents;
         h.   If applicable, the stages of development or use; and
         i.   An end use plan.
      6.   A statement or report of traffic impact regarding the proposed site
including the anticipated number of vehicles and their size, weight and
direction of movement.
      7.   All physical evidence (except oral testimony) including, but not
limited to, studies, maps, reports, permits or exhibits which the applicant
desires the village board to consider at the public hearing, including all
documents submitted to the IEPA pertaining to the proposed facility. It is
intended that the applicant provide a full and complete disclosure of his case
to facilitate early review and analysis by all parties.
      8.   Certificates of insurance, from companies having a Best rating of A
VI or better, verifying the insurance policies carried by the applicant to
cover accidents such as fires, explosions, nonsudden accidental occurrences and
pollution impairment.
      9.   If the site is a proposed hazardous waste facility, a copy of the
resource conservation recovery act contingency plan.
      10.   A statement describing the past operating experience of the
applicant (and any subsidiary, parent corporation or subsidiary of the parent
corporation) in the field of solid waste management.
      11.   A statement citing the past record of convictions of admissions of
violations of the applicant (and any subsidiary, parent corporation or
subsidiary of the parent corporation). Said statement shall include, but not be
limited to, a citation of the applicable statute or ordinance violated, a brief
written summary of the violation or conviction and the penalty imposed.
      12.   Proof of notice given by an applicant pursuant to section 5/39.2(6)
of the act 2 .
      13.   a. A five thousand dollar ($5,000.00) application fee in the form
of a certified or cashier's check to cover notice costs, court reporter costs,
transcription costs, village consultant costs and other expenses incurred by
the village in conducting the review of the request for siting approval, the
subsequent public hearing and the siting approval decision; provided, however,
that any portion of the application fee that remains unexpended at the
conclusion of the siting approval decision shall be returned to the applicant.
Should there be any additional costs incurred by the village over the amount
paid by the applicant in the application fee, the applicant shall bear any and
all additional costs. The application fee shall not bear interest.
         b.   In the event that, at any time prior to the conclusion of the
siting approval decision, the village has expended such sums as to reduce the
balance of the application fee to a figure less than five hundred dollars
($500.00), the applicant, upon notice, shall contribute an additional one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) to the application fee to cover costs as described
above. Any portion of the fees, including any additional fees that remain
unexpended at the conclusion of the siting approval decision, shall be returned
to the applicant.
      14.   The pages of the application and all exhibits submitted to the
village shall be consecutively numbered.
   D.   An application for siting approval may not be filed which is
substantially the same as a request which was disapproved pursuant to a finding
against an applicant under any of criteria of subsection
4-4-8B of this chapter within the preceding two (2) years. (Ord. 91-27, 5-23-
1991)
   E.   No application for siting approval shall be deemed to have been filed
or accepted for filing unless all of the requirements of this chapter
applicable thereto shall have been met, and the village clerk shall not give a
receipt or other indication of filing until such time as it is determined by
the department of public works that the application complies with the
requirements of this chapter, specifically, subsection C of this section.
Within twenty one (21) days after delivery of an application, the village clerk
shall advise the applicant either: (Ord. 91-27, 5-23-1991; amd. Ord. 2011-21,
5-12-2011)
      1.   That the application is complete and that it has been accepted for
filing, designating the date of filing; or
      2.   That the application is not complete, specifying wherein it is
deficient.
The acceptance of the application by the village clerk is a pro forma
acceptance. The applicant is solely responsible for providing sufficient
technical information to meet its burden of proving the criteria cited in
section 5/39.2(a) of the act 3 , as may be amended from time to time.
The village clerk shall cause to have published no later than thirty (30) days
after the date of filing of the application a black border notice stating that
such application and supporting evidence are available in the village clerk's
office for public inspection.
   F.   In order to give members of the public an opportunity to make informed
written comment pursuant to section 5/39.2(c) of the act 4  and to give members
of the public and departments of the village an opportunity to prepare
adequately and fairly for the public hearing hereinafter described, the
applicant must fully comply with all application requirements as set forth in
subsection C of this section. Failure to submit any required information with
the application shall render such required information inadmissible at said
public hearing.
   G.   At any time prior to the completion by the applicant of the
presentation of the applicant's factual evidence and an opportunity for cross
examination by the village board and any participants, the applicant may file
not more than one amended application upon payment of additional fees in the
sum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00); provided, however, that
the time limitations for final action by the village board shall be extended
for an additional period of ninety (90) days.
   H.   Other amendments may be made if, in the opinion of the village board,
any such proposed amendment is nonsubstantive and a majority of the village
board (4 votes) allows such amendments. (Ord. 91-27, 5-23-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
2 1. 415 ILCS 5/39.2(6).
3 1. 415 ILCS 5/39.2.
4 2. 415 ILCS 5/39.2(c).
4-4-3: VILLAGE REVIEW:
   A.   Upon receipt of a copy of a request for siting approval, the director
of public works shall notify the following of such receipt:
      1.   Village administrator.
      2.   Community development department.
      3.   Finance department.
      4.   All village consultants. (Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-2010)
   B.   The department of public works shall be the department responsible for
coordinating review of the request for siting approval by those mentioned above
and is authorized to call meetings and set deadlines for the submittal of
reports and recommendations. (Ord. 91-27, 5-23-1991; amd. Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-
2010)
   C.   Those mentioned above are authorized to prepare and submit reports and
recommendations in response to the request for siting approval. Preliminary
reports, reports, studies, exhibits and any written comments concerning the
appropriateness of the proposed site that the village departments and
consultants desire to submit for the record at the public hearing shall be
filed with the village clerk no later than ten (10) days in advance of the date
set for public hearing. In the event that the tenth day prior to the date set
for public hearing falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the next working day
shall be considered the day that such information shall be filed. Copies of
such information shall be available for public inspection in the office of the
village clerk. Members of the public shall be allowed to obtain copies of such
information upon payment of the actual cost of reproduction.
   D.   Those mentioned above may attend the public hearing and may ask such
questions as needed to assist in reaching their recommendations.
   E.   The village departments and consultants retained by the village, are
authorized to present testimony at the public hearing as hereinafter described.
(Ord. 91-27, 5-23-1991)
4-4-4: INFORMATION FROM OTHER PARTIES:
All reports, studies, exhibits or other evidence or copies thereof, other than
testimony, which any person, other than the applicant, desires to submit for
the record at the public hearing must be filed with the village clerk at least
ten (10) days before the public hearing. In the event that the tenth day prior
to the date set for public hearing falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the
next working day shall be considered the day that such information must be
filed. Copies of such information shall be available for public inspection in
the office of the village clerk. Members of the public shall be allowed to
obtain copies of such information upon payment of the actual cost of
reproduction. (Ord. 91-27, 5-23-1991)
4-4-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   When Held:
      1.   No sooner than ninety (90) but no later than one hundred twenty
(120) days from the date of filing of the request for siting approval with the
village clerk, a public hearing shall be held by the village board.
      2.   Within twenty (20) working days of the date a request for siting
approval is accepted for filing, the village board shall determine the date,
time and location of said public hearing, but in any event, the public hearing
must be scheduled to commence no sooner than ninety (90) days but no later than
one hundred twenty (120) days from the date the request for siting approval was
accepted for filing by the village clerk.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: The village board shall notify the village clerk of
the date upon which such hearing shall be held and shall request the village
clerk to cause notice of such hearing to be made as follows:
      1.   Publish two (2) legal notices in a newspaper of general circulation
published in the county of the proposed facility. One such notice shall be
published no later than sixty (60) days from the date of filing of an
application, and one such notice shall be published no later than seventy five
(75) days from the date of filing of an application.
Such notices shall consist of the following:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant.
         b.   The owners of the site and, in case ownership is in a land trust,
the names of the beneficiaries of said trust.
         c.   The legal description of the site.
         d.   The street address of the property and, if there is no street
address applicable to the property, a description of the site with reference to
location, ownership or occupancy or in some other manner that will reasonably
identify the property to residents of the neighborhood.
         e.   The nature and size of the proposed development.
         f.   The nature of the activity proposed.
         g.   The probable life of the proposed activity.
         h.   The time and date of the public hearing.
         i.   The location of the public hearing.
         j.   A statement that all copies of evidence other than oral testimony
to be submitted at the public hearing must be filed with the village clerk at
least ten (10) days before the public hearing.
      2.   Certified mail to all members of the general assembly from the
district in which the proposed site is located.
      3.   Certified mail to the Illinois environmental protection agency.
      4.   Certified mail to the counties of DuPage and Will and all
municipalities within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the proposed facility.
      5.   Public hearing notice in a newspaper of general circulation
published as a display at least once during the week preceding the public
hearing. Such notice shall consist of all items described in subsection B1 of
this section except for subsections B1c and B1j of this section.
   C.   Hearing Procedures:
      1.   The mayor shall preside over the public hearing and shall make any
decisions concerning the admission of evidence and the manner in which the
hearing is conducted, subject to this Chapter. The Mayor shall make all
decisions and rulings in accordance with fundamental fairness. The Mayor may
exclude irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent or unduly repetitious testimony or
other evidence. No ruling of the Mayor shall be appealable.
      2.   The applicant for siting approval shall have the burden of going
forward with evidence of the suitability of the site location for the proposed
use.
      3.   Any person appearing at such public hearing shall have the right to
give testimony and comment on the suitability of the site location for the
proposed use. Any person shall have the right to be represented by an attorney
at said public hearing. Such persons shall have the right of reasonable cross-
examination.
      4.   Conduct of the public hearing shall be as follows:
         a.   Call to order.
         b.   Recognition of the applicant and identification of the request
for siting approval.
         c.   Recognition of fees, notices and dates of filing of the request
for siting approval.
         d.   Recognition of the Village staff and consultants and other
parties wishing to testify and any other reports, exhibits, maps or documents
of record as filed pursuant to this Chapter. All parties, including members of
the public, intending to testify or cross-examine must sign in or submit
written notification of said intent to the Village Clerk on or before the first
day of the public hearing. Should the public hearing extend beyond one day,
additional parties or members of the public, not of record as of the first day
of the public hearing, will not be allowed to present testimony or cross-
examine.
         e.   The applicant, the Village and other parties may make an opening
statement.
         f.   The Village Board shall then hear testimony and receive evidence
from the applicant and/or any witnesses the applicant may wish to call. Upon
the close of the applicant's testimony, other parties may offer expert
witnesses and evidence they may wish to present. These other parties may or may
not be represented by counsel. Upon the close of the applicant's and other
parties' testimony and evidence, the Village may present any witnesses and
evidence it wishes to present.
         g.   All witnesses shall testify under oath. Testimony may include the
use of exhibits. All witnesses shall be subject to reasonable questioning, as
follows: direct, cross-examination, redirect, recross, etc. After all parties
have presented testimony, reasonable rebuttal, sur-rebuttal, etc., may be
allowed at the discretion of the Mayor.
         h.   Should any issues, facts, data or other evidence arise during the
course of the public hearing which were not apparent or reasonably foreseeable
by a party from the request for siting approval as filed with the Village
Clerk, such situation may constitute grounds for a recess in the public hearing
for a period not to exceed five (5) working days.
         i.   Summary statements by applicant, other parties and the Village,
subject to limitations as imposed by the Mayor.
         j.   Rebuttal statement, if any, by the applicant, subject to
limitations as imposed by the Mayor.
         k.   Hearing closed. (Ord. 91-27, 5-23-91)
4-4-6: PUBLIC COMMENT:
   A.   The Village Clerk shall receive written comment from any person
concerning the appropriateness of the proposed site. Upon receipt of any such
written comment, the Village Clerk shall date stamp and shall file such written
comment and the postmarked envelope in which such comment was received.
   B.   Copies of such written comments shall be made available for public
inspection in the office of the Village Clerk, and members of the public shall
be allowed to obtain a copy of any written comment upon payment of the actual
cost of reproduction.
   C.   Any written comment received by the Village Clerk or postmarked not
later than thirty (30) days after the close of the public hearing shall be made
part of the record of the public hearing as hereinafter described, and the
Village Board shall consider any such timely written comments in making its
final determination concerning said siting request. In the event that the
thirtieth day falls on a Sunday or a Federal holiday, the next day on which
mail is delivered shall be considered the thirtieth day for purposes of this
subsection. (Ord. 91-27, 5-23-91)
4-4-7: RECORDS KEPT:
The Village Clerk shall be responsible for keeping the records of said hearing.
The record shall consist of the following:
   A.   The request for siting approval as described in subsection
4-4-2C hereof.
   B.   Proof of notice as described in subsection
4-4-5B hereof.
   C.   Written comments filed by the public and received by the Village Clerk
or postmarked within thirty (30) days of the close of the hearing.
   D.   All reports, studies, exhibits or documents received into evidence at
the public hearing.
   E.   The transcript of the public hearing.
   F.   Findings of fact and recommendation of the Village Board.
   G.   The resolution containing the final decision of the Village Board.
The Village Clerk shall be responsible for certifying all copies of the record
of the public hearing. (Ord. 91-27, 5-23-91)
4-4-8: SITING APPROVAL DECISION:
   A.   After the public hearing and any continuation thereof, the Village
Board shall hold a public review meeting for purposes of establishing findings
of fact and a recommendation concerning the siting approval request. Any
findings of fact and recommendation shall be supported by the record. A written
resolution thereof shall be presented to the Village Board within one hundred
seventy (170) days from the Village Clerk's acceptance of the filing of the
siting approval request.
   B.   In making its recommendation on the request for siting approval, the
Village Board shall base its decision on the following criteria:
      1.   The facility is necessary to accommodate the waste needs of the area
it is intended to serve;
      2.   The facility is so designed, located and proposed to be operated
that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected;
      3.   The facility is located so as to minimize incompatibility with the
character of the surrounding area and to minimize the effect on the value of
the surrounding property;
      4.   The facility is located outside the boundary of the 100-year flood
plain; 1
      5.   The plan of operations for the facility is designed to minimize the
danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills or other operational
accidents;
      6.   The traffic patterns to or from the facility are so designed as to
minimize the impact on existing traffic flows;
      7.   If the facility will be treating, storing or disposing of hazardous
waste, an emergency response plan exists for the facility which includes
notification, containment and evacuation procedures to be used in case of an
accidental release;
      8.   If the facility will be located within a regulated recharge area,
any and all applicable requirements specified by the Illinois Pollution Control
Board for such area have been met; and
      9.   If the facility is to be located in a county where the County Board
has adopted a solid waste management plan, the facility is consistent with that
plan.
   C.   The Village Board shall consider as evidence the previous operating
experience and past record of convictions or admissions of violations of the
applicant (and any subsidiary, parent corporation or subsidiary of the parent
corporation) in the field of solid waste management when considering criteria
in subsection B2 and B5 of this Section.
   D.   The Village Board shall consider the record from the public hearing and
shall make a determination concerning a siting approval request within one
hundred eighty (180) days from the Village Clerk's acceptance of the filing of
the siting approval request. The Village Board may conditionally approve any
request for siting approval; provided, such conditions are not inconsistent
with regulations promulgated by the Illinois Pollution Control Board.
   E.   No determination by the Village Board of a siting approval request may
be reconsidered. (Ord. 91-27, 5-23-91)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9, Chapter 13 of this Code.
4-4-9: ADMINISTRATION OF FEES AND COSTS:
   A.   All expenses incurred by the Village in conducting the review of the
request for siting approval, the public hearing and the siting approval
decision shall be paid from the fees as provided in this Chapter.
   B.   Upon termination of any proceedings under this Chapter, a final
accounting and summary of all authorized expenditures and reimbursements shall
be presented to the Village Board.
   C.   Any portion of an application fee not required for reimbursement to the
Village for costs and expenses incurred by the Village under this Chapter shall
be returned to the applicant. Should there be costs and/or expenses in excess
of the amount paid by the applicant in the application fee, the applicant shall
bear any and all additional costs.
   D.   In order to properly administer the application fee received with
respect to this Chapter, the Village Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed to receive and hold such application fees for administration
subject to the review and approval of the Village Board.
   E.   In order to expedite payment of all bills incurred as a result of
administering this Chapter, all bills and questions concerning billing should
be directed to the Director of Finance. (Ord. 91-27, 5-23-91)
CHAPTER 5
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE CONTROL AND HAZARDOUS INCIDENT EXPENSE RECOVERY
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Cost of Cleanup or Abatement
4-5-3: Reimbursement of Costs Through the State of Illinois Emergency Response
Reimbursement Panel
4-5-4: Department Not Liable
4-5-5: Remedy Not Exclusive
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this Chapter shall have the following meanings:
COMBUSTIBLE: Any substance having a flash point above one hundred degrees
(100°) Fahrenheit to and including two hundred degrees (200°) Fahrenheit as
determined by the Tagliabue Open Cup Tester, except the flammability of solids
and of the contents of self-pressurized containers shall be determined by
methods generally applicable to such materials or containers respectively.
CORROSIVE: Any substance which in contact with living tissue causes destruction
of tissue by chemical action, but does not refer to action on inanimate
surfaces.
EMERGENCY ACTION: Any action taken at or near the scene of a hazardous
materials emergency incident to prevent or minimize harm to human health, to
property or to the environments from the actual or potential release of
hazardous materials.
ETIOLOGIC AGENT: A living micro-organism that may cause human disease.
FLAMMABLE: Any substance which has a flash point below one hundred degrees
(100°) Fahrenheit as determined by the Tagliabue open cup tester, except the
flammability of solids and of the contents of self-pressurized containers,
shall be determined by methods generally applicable to such materials or
containers respectively.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material or mixture of substances which
is toxic, corrosive, an irritant, a strong sensitizer, radioactive, flammable,
combustible or which generates pressure through decomposition, heat or other
means, and which is in a quantity or form which, in the determination of the
Police Chief or his authorized representative, poses an unreasonable and
imminent risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the
environment, or as defined by the Illinois Environmental Protection Act or any
Federal law. Such materials shall include but not be limited to such substances
as explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases,
poisons, etiologic (biologic) agents, flammables or corrosives.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT: An incident which threatens human health,
property or the environment from the actual or potential release of hazardous
materials.
IRRITANT: Any substance, not corrosive, which on immediate, prolonged or
repeated contact with normal living tissue will induce local inflammatory
reaction.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, firm, company, estate,
association or other legal entity.
POISON: Any substance that is known to be toxic if released.
RADIOACTIVE: Any substance which emits ionizing radiation.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: A person who:
   A.   Owns or has custody of hazardous materials that are involved in an
incident requiring emergency action; or
   B.   Owns or has custody of bulk or nonbulk packaging or a transport vehicle
that contains hazardous materials and that is involved in an incident requiring
emergency action; and
   C.   Causes or substantially contributed to the cause of the incident,
whether intentionally or unintentionally.
STRONG SENSITIZER: Any substance which will cause on normal living tissue,
through an allergic or photodynamic process, a hypersensitivity which becomes
evident on reapplication of the same substance.
TOXIC: Any substance other than a radioactive substance which has the capacity
to produce bodily injury or illness to man through ingestion, inhalation or
absorption through any body surface. (Ord. 94-59, 8-25-94)
4-5-2: COST OF CLEANUP OR ABATEMENT:
   A.   Any responsible party shall have the duty to reimburse the Village for
and shall be liable for the payment of all costs incurred as a result of any
emergency action taken by the Village, or any agency or private contractor at
the direction of the Village, including, but not limited to: actual labor costs
of personnel (including workmen's compensation benefits, fringe benefits, and
administrative overhead), costs of equipment operation and materials,
replacement of expended supplies and other costs incurred.
   B.   The Village shall prepare and forward to the responsible party, an
invoice for the total costs incurred for which such responsible party is
responsible pursuant to this Chapter; provided, however, any cost in connection
with any private cleanup contractor may be invoiced directly by such
contractor. Payment of any invoice shall be made within thirty (30) days of
receipt. Any invoice or portion thereof remaining unpaid after thirty (30) days
of receipt shall accrue interest on the unpaid balance at the rate of one-half
of one percent (0.5%) per month, or fraction of a month. (Ord. 94-59, 8-25-94)
4-5-3: REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS THROUGH THE STATE OF ILLINOIS EMERGENCY RESPONSE
REIMBURSEMENT PANEL:
   A.   When deemed necessary, the Village may solicit the assistance of the
State of Illinois, office of the State Fire Marshall, Hazardous Materials
Emergency Response Reimbursement Panel (HMERRP) for assistance in recovering
the costs of emergency action taken by the Village in response to hazardous
materials incidents from responsible parties.
   B.   The Village may file an application to HMERRP to obtain reimbursement
for materials and equipment expended or rendered unserviceable due to chemical
contamination after a reasonable but unsuccessful effort has been made to
recover any such expended costs from the responsible parties.
   C.   In the event that materials or equipment are expended or rendered
unserviceable because of their use at a hazardous materials incident which
occurs outside the Village, a summary of costs expended shall be presented to
the governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over the hazardous
materials incident where the costs were incurred, so that such agency can bill
the responsible party and reimburse the Village for such costs. In the event
that the governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction lacks the means
to collect Village costs from the responsible party or fails to do so, then the
Village shall utilize the means otherwise set forth in this Chapter to obtain
reimbursement or assistance in collection of such costs. (Ord. 94-59, 8-25-94)
4-5-4: DEPARTMENT NOT LIABLE:
The Village, the Police Department, their officers, agents or employees shall
not have any liability or responsibility for any claim, injury or damage of any
kind resulting from emergency action taken in response to a hazardous materials
incident to which they respond. (Ord. 94-59, 8-25-94)
4-5-5: REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedy provided in this Chapter is not exclusive and shall be in addition
to any other remedy provided by law. (Ord. 94-59, 8-25-94)
CHAPTER 6
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Open Burning Prohibited
4-6-3: Permitted Exceptions
4-6-4: Penalty
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter shall have the following meanings:
APPROVED CONTAINER: A commercially manufactured device specifically designed,
intended, advertised, and utilized for the purpose of recreational campfires,
such as chimeneas and outdoor fireplaces. Such container must be located
aboveground and in no event shall be built into the ground or located below
grade.
APPROVED WOOD: Seasoned dry firewood of dimensions appropriate to safely fit
within the container. In particular, but without limitations, approved wood
shall not include any green or fresh vegetation materials; nor shall it include
any leaves, grass, bushes, roots or other similar materials, nor shall it
include any construction materials, such as treated woods, plywood or pressure
treated wood, or any other materials which produce excessive smoke, cinders or
other emissions characteristic of nonseasoned wood.
BONFIRE: A safely conducted and controlled outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial
purposes.
RECREATIONAL CAMPFIRE: A safely conducted and controlled outdoor fire utilized
for comfort or relaxation. (Ord. 2011-45, 9-8-2011)
4-6-2: OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to burn or cause the burning at any location within the
village of any paper, cardboard, leaves, twigs, branches, wood, grass, grass
clippings, refuse from farming or gardening, or other refuse or other
combustible materials of any nature whatsoever, except as hereinafter permitted
in section
4-6-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-45, 9-8-2011)
4-6-3: PERMITTED EXCEPTIONS:
Notwithstanding the prohibitions set forth in section
4-6-2 of this chapter, the following burning is expressly permitted:
   A.   Burning any combustible materials wholly within a building in a
fireplace or other equipment or facility designed and constructed for such
purpose; provided, that any refuse burning incinerator installed in any
residence building shall comply with the rules and regulations of the Illinois
pollution control board as the same may from time to time be in effect.
   B.   Burning charcoal briquettes, natural gas, propane, approved wood, or
commercially prepared seasoned wood chips in conjunction with any of the
foregoing for cooking purposes, provided, however that the following
restriction, shall apply to multi-family buildings (excluding townhomes):
      1.   Charcoal burners and other uncovered open flame cooking devices
shall not be operated;
      2.   Burning of charcoal briquettes, approved wood or commercially
prepared seasoned wood chips shall not be allowed.
   C.   Burning combustible materials in a high temperature incinerator
providing complete combustion and complying with the rules and regulations of
the Illinois pollution control board as the same may from time to time be in
effect.
   D.   Burning approved wood, in an outdoor bonfire at a gathering conducted
by religious, educational or other not for profit organization; provided, that
a permit therefor is previously issued by the fire code official and that such
bonfire is attended by adult supervision and adequate safety equipment as
approved by the fire code official.
   E.   Burning any combustible material other than those listed in the first
paragraph herein for recognized silvicultural or range or wildlife management
practices or prevention or control of disease or pests; provided:
      1.   That the fire code official shall find that the burning thereof will
not constitute a danger to the health, safety and welfare of the citizens and
residents of the village or of other communities surrounding the village, or
constitute a danger of air pollution in any other respect;
      2.   That the fire code official shall issue a permit therefor; and
      3.   That any such burning shall be attended by adequate personnel and
safety equipment as approved by the fire code official.
   F.   Burning approved wood in an approved container for recreational
campfires, in a safe and controlled manner, provided that:
      1.   Such fire shall be under the control of and attended at all times by
a person eighteen (18) years of age or older;
      2.   A portable fire extinguisher having a minimum rating of 4-A or other
approved extinguishing agent such as sand, dirt or water in sufficient quantity
shall be available for immediate use;
      3.   Such fire shall at all times be safely managed and shall not be
permitted to create excessive flames, flying cinders or smoke;
      4.   Such fire shall be located in an area separated from any structure
by not less than fifteen feet (15');
      5.   Such fire shall not be used in such a manner as to emit offensive or
objectional smoke or odors or when other circumstances make such fires
hazardous; and
      6.   At no time shall such fire be utilized for waste disposal purposes.
(Ord. 2011-45, 9-8-2011)
4-6-4: PENALTY:
Any person charged with a violation of section
4-6-2 of this chapter may, in lieu of prosecution for a violation thereof, make
payment in accordance with section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 2011-45, 9-8-2011)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Established; Functions
5-1-2: Employment Classifications
5-1-3: Oath Of Office; Removals
5-1-4: Duties Of Chief Of Police
5-1-5: Arrests
5-1-6: Serve Processes
5-1-7: Aid To Fire Districts
5-1-8: Duty To Assist Police; Resisting Or Interfering With Police
5-1-9: Insurance Benefits
5-1-10: Police Training
5-1-11: Special Police Services Procedure; Charges
5-1-12: Administrative Fees
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; FUNCTIONS:
There is hereby established a police department in and for the village. The
police department as herein established shall encompass the following municipal
operations of and for the village:
   A.   Administrative services.
   B.   Police records.
   C.   Emergency communications.
   D.   Patrol services.
   E.   Crime detection and investigation.
   F.   Crime prevention services.
   G.   Code enforcement.
   H.   Emergency and disaster services.
Nothing herein stated shall preclude the police department from carrying out
any other function or functions of and for the village as may be established by
ordinance or assigned to the department by order of the village administrator
and/or the mayor and board of trustees.
The police department shall be composed of such operating divisions as may be
established from time to time by the chief of police with the approval of the
village administrator and/or mayor and board of trustees. (1976 Code §11-1)
5-1-2: EMPLOYMENT CLASSIFICATIONS:
   A.   Classifications Designated: There is hereby established the following
classifications of employees of the police department:
      1.   Civilian: Shall include all employees performing in any regular
police department work classification which does not require certification as a
police officer. Such employees shall not be under the jurisdiction of the board
of police commissioners 1  of the village.
      2.   Sworn: Shall include all certified police personnel with the rank of
patrolman through and including sergeant and shall include all probationary
patrol officers.
      3.   Exempt: Shall include all police command personnel above the rank of
sergeant. Said personnel shall not be under the jurisdiction of the board of
police commissioners of the village 2 . (1976 Code §11-16; amd. Ord. 93-26, 5-
27-1993)
   B.   Appointment Of Civilian Positions: The chief of police is hereby
granted the authority to appoint individuals to positions in the civilian
classifications as defined herein subject to the concurrence of the village
administrator. Individuals so appointed shall serve subject to the supervision
of the chief of police who shall have authority to discipline, suspend, demote
or discharge the individuals so appointed at any time, subject to the advice
and consent of the village administrator and further subject to the rules and
regulations of the village and the police department.
   C.   Certified Employees Appointed As Civilian Or Exempt: If an employee
classified as a certified police officer of the police department is appointed
to a civilian or exempt classification as hereinabove defined prior to being
eligible to retire on pension, said employee shall be considered as on furlough
from the rank held immediately prior to appointment. If said employee resigns
or is discharged from said classification prior to attaining eligibility to
retire on pension, the employee shall revert to and be established in such
prior rank, and thereafter be entitled to all the benefits and emoluments of
such prior rank without regard as to whether a vacancy then exists in such
rank. (1976 Code §11-16)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 4 of this code.
2 2. See title 2, chapter 4 of this code.
5-1-3: OATH OF OFFICE; REMOVALS:
   A.   Oath Required: Members of the police department, before entering upon
the duties of their respective offices and in the manner to be prescribed by
the corporate authorities at the time of their appointment, shall take the oath
of office prescribed by statute. (1976 Code §11-2)
   B.   Removal From Office: Removal of sworn members of the police department
shall be as prescribed by the statutes governing the board of police
commissioners 1 . (1976 Code §11-3; amd. Ord. 93-26, 5-27-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.
5-1-4: DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE 1 :
The chief of police is a sworn, exempt position, reporting directly to the
village administrator and responsible for the administration and direction of
the police department. The chief of police coordinates all functions of the
police department and formulates and prescribes work methods and procedures to
be followed by all sworn and civilian personnel of the department. (1976 Code
§2-90)
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to:
   A.   Plan department goals and objectives based on the input of the village
administrator, mayor and board of trustees in order to determine further public
safety requirements for both equipment and manpower.
   B.   Plan and direct police activities utilizing the divisions of support
and field services in a coordinated manner in order to effectively control
emergencies such as major crimes, arson, tornadoes, floods, riots and any
natural disaster or civil disturbance.
   C.   Develop and maintain safety and accident prevention programs to reduce
on duty accidents and injuries.
   D.   Investigate and act on complaints for evidence of employee misconduct,
discrimination or abuse of authority.
   E.   Assist in the development of testing criteria, the testing, hiring,
evaluation, retention and termination of recruit officers to ensure the best
candidates are accepted for service and retention.
   F.   Coordinate police department budget proposals and provide for budget
control after budget adoption.
   G.   Keep abreast of court decisions, both state and federal, affecting the
directing, staffing and training of the police department, as well as all
ordinances, statutes and their development, revision, amending and rescinding,
and to maintain a working knowledge of police procedures and operations, and
maintain personal firearm proficiency.
   H.   Maintain liaison with local police agencies and with county, state and
federal judiciary to ensure mutual cooperation and understanding.
   I.   Hire civilian personnel in accordance with established procedures to
fill vacant positions and to provide training for all department employees
developing personnel skills and providing cooperative and cross training to
assure department effectiveness and efficiency.
   J.   Prepare daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual reports of police
activities and maintain a record of all monetary transactions within the
department. (1976 Code §2-91)
The chief of police shall, prior to the end of the first quarter of each fiscal
year, make an annual report in writing to the corporate authorities on the
state of the police department with a detailed report of the transactions of
the department for the preceding year, with such statistics and suggestions in
regard to the requirements of the department as he may deem advisable. The
chief of police shall also make reports of any matter or thing concerning such
department whenever requested by the village administrator and/or the mayor and
board of trustees. (1976 Code §11-5)
   K.   Execute or cause to be executed all orders directed to him by the
county health department, so far as they relate to the preservation of the
health of the village. (1976 Code §11-4)
 
Notes
  2. See subsection
1 1-4-5B, title 1, chapter 6, article H and section
  2-4-7 of this code.
5-1-5: ARRESTS:
   A.   Arrest Powers: The members of the police department of the village are
hereby severally authorized to arrest, with or without process, or on view, any
person who shall break the peace or is found violating any ordinance of the
village or any criminal law of the state, and to take such person before the
circuit court judge, or if necessary, detain such person in custody overnight
or Sunday in the village jail 1 , or any other safe place until he can be
brought before the proper judge for future disposition. (1976 Code §11-10)
   B.   Arrest Records: It shall be the duty of the chief of police to keep a
record of the names of all persons arrested or committed to the village jail or
county jail. Such record shall show the date of arrest or committal, the number
of days imprisoned, the amount of the fine, when and to whom paid, and the date
of discharge or other disposition of such persons. (1976 Code §11-6)
   C.   Arresting Officer To Appear As Witness: All officers making arrests
shall attend as witnesses before the court where the trial may be had and shall
procure all necessary evidence in their power and furnish a list of witnesses
to the court and the village legal counsel. No village officer shall be
entitled to any witness fees to be taxed against the village in any action for
the violation of an ordinance where the village is plaintiff. (1976 Code §11-
11)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-5 of this code.
5-1-6: SERVE PROCESSES:
Any regular member of the police department shall have power and authority, and
it shall be his duty, in the village to serve and execute warrants and other
processes for the apprehension and commitment of persons charged with the
violation of any village ordinance or any crime, misdemeanor or offense against
the peace of the state or the village or held for examination or trial, or
taken on execution for the commission of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of
any law or ordinance of the village. While serving or executing or assisting in
the service or execution of any such warrant or process, he shall be vested
with and have all the powers and authority conferred on constables by the
common laws and laws of the state. (1976 Code §11-7)
5-1-7: AID TO FIRE DISTRICTS:
It shall be the duty of the police department to aid the appropriate fire
district by giving alarms in case of fire and clearing the streets or grounds
in the immediate vicinity of the fire so that the members of the fire district
shall not be hindered or obstructed in the performance of their duties. (1976
Code §11-9)
5-1-8: DUTY TO ASSIST POLICE; RESISTING OR INTERFERING WITH POLICE:
   A.   Duty To Assist Police: It shall be the duty of every citizen in the
village between the ages of eighteen (18) and fifty five (55) when called upon
by any member of the police department, in case of exigency, to promptly aid
and assist such officer in the execution of his police duties. Any person who
shall refuse to give aid and assistance shall be punished by a fine of not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) and not more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each said offense. (1976 Code §11-12)
   B.   Resisting, Interfering With Police: It shall be unlawful for any person
to resist any member of the police department in the discharge of his duties,
or any other person duly authorized to perform police duty, or to in any way
interfere with, prevent or hinder him in the discharge of his duty as such
member, or to offer or endeavor to do so, or to assist any person in the
custody of any member of the police department to escape or to attempt to
escape from such custody, or to attempt to rescue any person from custody.
(1976 Code §11-8; amd. 1991 Code)
5-1-9: INSURANCE BENEFITS:
All duly appointed police officers under this chapter shall be considered to be
employees of this village, within the meaning of the workers' compensation act
of the state of Illinois 1  and, as such, entitled to the benefits and
protection thereof. (1976 Code §11-15)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.
5-1-10: POLICE TRAINING:
   A.   Participation In Illinois Police Training Act 1 : The village hereby
elects to participate in the program provided for in the Illinois police
training act. (1976 Code §11-24)
   B.   Certification Required: Before an individual may commence regular
employment as a police officer, he must have been certified by the Illinois
local governmental law enforcement officers training board as having
successfully completed an approved basic training course as provided in the
Illinois police training act. (1976 Code §11-25)
   C.   Completion Of Basic Training: The basic training outlined in subsection
B of this section must be completed by the trainee within six (6) months of the
date of his initial full time employment. (1976 Code §11-26)
The board of police commissioners 2  of the village are hereby instructed and
directed to make the necessary amendments to the personnel rules 3 , the manual
of rules of the police department and the rules of the board of police
commissioners requiring that any person appointed to the police department of
the village pursuant to the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-
2.1-29 and the Illinois police training act 4 , shall not become a regular
member of the police department until and unless he shall have successfully
completed the approved basic training course within six (6) months of the date
of his initial full time employment. (1976 Code §11-27; amd. Ord. 93-26, 5-27-
1993)
   D.   Training Indemnification Agreements: The village administrator is
authorized to execute, from time to time, indemnification agreements required
by agencies providing police training services to the village provided such
agreements are in a form acceptable to the village attorney. (Ord. 90-07, 2-22-
1990)
 
Notes
1 2. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
2 3. See title 2, chapter 4 of this code.
3 4. See title 1, chapter 7 of this code.
4 5. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
5-1-11: SPECIAL POLICE SERVICES PROCEDURE; CHARGES:
   A.   Request For Services: Any person, firm, corporation or civic group or
organization may request special police services by application to the chief of
police. It shall be the duty of the chief of police to review the application.
(Ord. 93-38, 7-8-1993)
   B.   Charges For Services: Should the chief of police determine that the
requested services will disrupt the normal operation of the police department
or will result in additional expense to the village, the applicant will be
informed that a charge will be made by the village for the requested special
police services. If the applicant agrees to payment of the charge, the chief of
police shall assign one or more persons to provide said special police
services. The charge to the applicant, payable to the village, shall be at a
rate based on the average rate of pay for sworn officers below the rank of
deputy chief of police and shall be established annually (May 1 of each year)
by the chief of police, except that the charge for special police services
which are required by this code or require the direction of vehicular traffic
shall be at a rate of forty dollars ($40.00) per person for each hour served.
(Ord. 2002-29, 6-13-2002)
   C.   Denial Of Request: Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions,
should the chief of police determine that the request for special police
services is not appropriate or that the police department will not be able to
provide an appropriate level of service were such request to be granted, he may
deny any such request. (Ord. 93-38, 7-8-1993)
5-1-12: ADMINISTRATIVE FEES:
The fees for the following activities and purposes shall be as follows:
A. Fingerprinting fees:
   Residents (up to 2 cards)                                $10.00
   Over 2 cards (per card)                                  1.00
   Nonresidents (up to 2 cards)                             25.00
   Over 2 cards (per card)                                  6.00
B. Photographs: Digital or 35 mm (per photograph)           5.00
C. Audio recording                                          25.00
D. Video recording                                          50.00
E. Copies of motor vehicle accident reports                 5.00
F. Copies of motor vehicle accident reconstruction reports  20.00
G. Records subpoena requests                                25.00
H. Release of impounded dog or cat                          15.00
 
(Ord. 2005-61, 11-3-2005; amd. Ord. 2009-14, 4-2-2009; Ord. 2014-11, 3-13-2014;
Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
ARTICLE A. AUXILIARY POLICE
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Auxiliary Police Created; Appointment
5-1A-2: Qualifications of Applicants
5-1A-3: Submission of Application
5-1A-4: Oath; Salary; Removal from Office
5-1A-5: Powers and Duties
5-1A-6: Training Requirements
5-1A-7: Weapons and Uniforms
5-1A-8: Hours of Duty
5-1A-1: AUXILIARY POLICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created a volunteer auxiliary police force within the
Department of Police of the Village. The Village Administrator, with the advice
and consent of the corporate authorities of the Village, may appoint volunteer
auxiliary police officers in such number as the corporate authorities shall
from time to time deem necessary. Such appointment shall only be considered
upon recommendation of the Chief of Police. Such volunteer auxiliary police
officers shall not supplement members of the regular Police Department in the
performance of their normal and assigned duties, except as otherwise provided
herein. (1976 Code §11-35)
5-1A-2: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANTS:
Applicants for volunteer auxiliary police officers shall:
   A.   Be United States citizens, at least twenty one (21) years of age.
   B.   Be high school graduates or equivalent (documents required).
   C.   Submit certification from a licensed physician that they possess
sufficient physical fitness to perform required duties.
   D.   Never have been convicted of a felony or a criminal misdemeanor.
   E.   Possess good moral character. (1976 Code §11-36)
5-1A-3: SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
Each applicant shall submit his application, including fingerprints, on forms
prepared by the personnel officer, to the personnel officer. (1976 Code §11-40)
5-1A-4: OATH; SALARY; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
   A.   Oath of Office: Each volunteer auxiliary police officer shall take an
oath of office as required of all Municipal officials. (1976 Code §11-41)
   B.   Salary: Said volunteer auxiliary police officers shall be compensated
at the rate of one dollar ($1.00) per year.
In the case of conditions which arise whereby extended tours of duty in hours,
days or weeks is required, such as in natural disasters, extended court case
appearances, etc., and individual volunteer auxiliary police officers suffer
monetary loss at their regular employment, said individuals will be compensated
at the regular police officer minimum hourly base salary rate for such extended
duty hours. (1976 Code §11-42)
   C.   Removal from Office: Removal shall be for cause, upon recommendation of
the Chief of Police and approval of the Village Administrator. (1976 Code §11-
41)
5-1A-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Conservators of the Peace: Volunteer auxiliary police officers, when on
duty, shall be conservators of the peace and shall have the powers as specified
in the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-9-4.
   B.   Duties: Volunteer auxiliary police officers shall have the following
duties:
      1.   Patrol operations performed for purposes of detection, prevention
and suppression of crime or the enforcement of traffic laws of this State and
Village must be in the company of and under direct control of a certified,
full-time police officer.
      2.   Traffic direction may be performed without immediate supervision;
provided however, that supervisory control is exercised by a certified, full-
time police officer whose total span of control is within reasonable limits.
      3.   Crowd control assistance may be rendered for any special event which
severely taxes or exhausts the manpower resources of the Police Department.
Supervising control will be exercised by a certified, full-time police officer
whose total span of control is within reasonable limits.
      4.   In the event of a natural disaster, civil disorder or other unusual
situation which jeopardizes the safety of persons or property in the community,
such volunteer auxiliary police officers may be called up and deployed at the
discretion of the Chief of Police.
Such volunteer auxiliary police officers shall at all times during the
performance of their duties be subject to the direction and control of the
Chief of Police, and his designated supervisory officers. (1976 Code §11-37)
5-1A-6: TRAINING REQUIREMENTS:
After appointment, but prior to assignment, all volunteer auxiliary police
officers must receive a minimum of eighty (80) hours of training. Such training
will include, but is not limited to, the following subjects:
   A.   Firearms training.
   B.   Patrol procedures.
   C.   Traffic control.
   D.   Laws of arrest, search and seizure.
   E.   Illinois criminal code 1 .
   F.   Police-community relations.
   G.   Defensive tactics.
   H.   Woodridge village ordinances.
Such training will be provided by the police department on a schedule such as
to enable persons to participate with minimum interference with their regular
employment.
The foregoing training requirements may be waived by the chief of police upon
his review of prior training received by an individual volunteer auxiliary
police officer; provided said prior training is the approximate equivalent of
that provided by this section. (1976 Code §11-38)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS.
5-1A-7: WEAPONS AND UNIFORMS:
   A.   Duty Of Member To Furnish: The members of the volunteer auxiliary
police unit shall furnish their own weapons and uniforms, except for the badge
and cap device and name tag. The village shall budget funds to provide an
annual uniform allowance for all auxiliary police officers. (1976 Code §11-39)
   B.   Carrying Firearms: Firearms shall only be carried by volunteer
auxiliary police officers when authorized by the chief of police. This will
only be after completion of training requirements of section
5-1A-6 of this article, and while in uniform and on duty. (1976 Code §11-37)
   C.   Identification Symbols: Auxiliary police identification symbols shall
be different and distinct from those used by members of the regular police
department. The chief of police shall determine uniform specifications for the
auxiliary policemen in the same manner as provided for the regular police
department. (1976 Code §11-39)
5-1A-8: HOURS OF DUTY:
Hours of duty will be as required and scheduled by the chief of police or his
designees, not to exceed twenty (20) hours per week, except in emergencies.
(1976 Code §11-43)
CHAPTER 2
AUTOMATIC PROTECTION AND SIGNALING DEVICES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Permit Requirements
5-2-3: Compliance With Village Requirements
5-2-4: Approval Required To Test Devices
5-2-5: Maintenance Required
5-2-6: Contents And Length Of Messages
5-2-7: Signaling Device Monitoring System
5-2-8: False Alarms
5-2-9: Connections To Emergency Police Lines Prohibited
5-2-10: Inspections
5-2-11: Revocation Or Suspension Of Permits
5-2-12: Appeals
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall be construed as herein defined:
ALARM EQUIPMENT SUPPLIER: Any person, firm or corporation that sells, leases or
installs automatic protection devices or signaling devices.
AUTOMATIC PROTECTION DEVICE: An electrically operated instrument composed of
sensory apparatus and related hardware which automatically sends, over regular
telephone lines, a prerecorded voice alarm upon receipt of a stimulus from the
sensory apparatus that has detected a force or condition characteristic of an
unauthorized intrusion or other condition initiating police response.
OWNER: As applied to any building or structure, shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, whether legal or beneficial, or
lessee or occupant of any portion of a building or structure.
SIGNALING DEVICE: An electrically operated instrument which automatically sends
visual and audible signals over a signal line to be registered by indicators at
a monitor panel at a receiving terminal or to an exterior device. (Ord. 90-32,
5-10-1990)
5-2-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any structure,
or any alarm equipment supplier, to install, cause to be installed, maintain or
operate any automatic protection device or signaling device without first
having obtained a permit therefor.
   B.   Applications For Permits: Application for a permit shall be made to the
chief of police upon such forms and supplying such information as the chief of
police may, from time to time, require. (Ord. 90-32, 5-10-1990)
   C.   Permit Fees; Term: The annual permit fees shall be as follows:
 
Automatic protection device $10.00
Signaling device            10.00
 
Permits shall be annual permits, the term of which shall commence on May 1 of
any given year and expire on April 30 of the following year. The annual permit
fee required hereunder shall be paid in full with no proration or abatement
based on the date of application for any such permit. (Ord. 93-05, 1-28-1993)
   D.   Restrictions On Issuance Of Permits: The chief of police shall issue a
permit upon receipt of a completed application and the applicable permit fee
provided:
      1.   The automatic protection device or signaling device complies with
the standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, the National Fire Protection
Association, Factory Mutual or comparable standards acceptable to the chief of
police;
      2.   The chief of police is satisfied that the automatic protection
device or signaling device shall be properly installed, serviced, maintained
and repaired;
      3.   The chief of police determines that the current level of service
being provided by the village with respect to automatic protection devices or
signaling devices will not be reduced; and
      4.   Such other conditions are met as the chief of police determines are
necessary for the safe installation and operation of automatic protection
devices or signaling devices.
   E.   Conditions Of Permits: The chief of police may impose such conditions
on permits as is deemed necessary for the safe and efficient operation and
utilization of automatic protection devices and signaling devices. (Ord. 90-32,
5-10-1990)
5-2-3: COMPLIANCE WITH VILLAGE REQUIREMENTS:
All automatic protection devices and signaling devices shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with all applicable provisions of this code,
including, but not limited to, all provisions relating to electrical
installations 1 . (Ord. 90-32, 5-10-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 1, article E of this code.
5-2-4: APPROVAL REQUIRED TO TEST DEVICES:
No automatic protection device shall be tested or demonstrated without prior
written approval of the chief of police or his designee, and no signaling
device shall be tested to determine police response without prior written
approval of the chief of police or his designee. (Ord. 90-32, 5-10-1990)
5-2-5: MAINTENANCE REQUIRED:
Every automatic protection device and signaling device shall be maintained in
good working order to prevent false alarms and other malfunctions by a person
qualified to service any such device. (Ord. 90-32, 5-10-1990)
5-2-6: CONTENTS AND LENGTH OF MESSAGES:
The contents of a recorded message to be transmitted by any automatic
protection device shall be approved by the chief of police or his designee. No
such message shall exceed fifteen (15) seconds in length nor such message be
transmitted more than twice for a given stimulus. (Ord. 90-32, 5-10-1990)
5-2-7: SIGNALING DEVICE MONITORING SYSTEM:
The village is authorized to contract for the installation of a uniform
monitoring system to receive visual and audible signals over a signal line or
lines at a central location. This system shall have a capacity to meet present
needs and the ability to expand for future needs, as determined by the village.
The holder of a permit to install, operate and maintain a signaling device
shall pay all costs related to the connection of such device to the monitoring
system, together with such subscription charges and maintenance fees as shall,
from time to time, be charged by the person maintaining such monitoring system.
(Ord. 90-32, 5-10-1990)
5-2-8: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   Responsibility; Number Of Alarms Transmitted: Each person holding a
permit for the operation or maintenance of an automatic protection device or
signaling device shall be responsible for any false alarms transmitted by such
a device. The chief of police or his designee shall maintain a record of all
false alarms so transmitted and, pursuant to the required notice and
opportunity to be heard, may revoke or suspend the permit for the operation of
an automatic protection device or signaling device involved in the transmission
of twelve (12) false alarms in any twelve (12) month period. Each consecutive
twelve (12) month period shall commence on January 1.
   B.   Charges For False Alarms: Residential: To cover the costs of responding
to false alarms, the permit holder shall pay to the village for each false
alarm in excess of two (2) in any calendar year period, beginning January 1,
transmitted by any automatic protection device or signaling device, twenty-five
dollars ($25.00)
   C.   Charges For False Alarms: Commercial: To cover the costs of responding
to false alarms, the permit holder shall pay to the Village for each false
alarm more than one (1) in any calendar year period, beginning January 1,
transmitted by any automatic protection device or signaling device, the
following amounts:
 
Commercial False Alarms
Number of False Alarms Fine
1st false alarm        free
2nd false alarm        $100.00
3rd false alarm        $150.00
Each subsequent alarm  Increases by $50.00
 
   D.   Exceptions: The charges provided for hereinabove shall not be
applicable until the expiration of thirty (30) days from and after the date of
initial installation of any such device. Where there is a positive indication,
satisfactory to the chief of police, that a false alarm was caused by off site
transmission line problems under the jurisdiction of the telephone company,
there shall be no charge and such false alarms shall not count in the above
schedule. (Ord. 90-32, 5-10-1990; amd. Ord. 2016-48, 12-15-2016; Ord. 2019-54,
11-21-2019)
5-2-9: CONNECTIONS TO EMERGENCY POLICE LINES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause any automatic protection device to
be connected to the village emergency police telephone lines. (Ord. 90-32, 5-
10-1990)
5-2-10: INSPECTIONS:
The chief of police or his designee shall have the right to inspect any
automatic protection device or signaling device and any appurtenances thereto
on or at the premises with any such devices and/or are to be installed, to
determine compliance with all applicable provisions of this code. It shall be
the duty of the permittee or such other person in charge of the premises where
such device or devices are installed, to admit the chief of police or his
designee thereto for the purpose of making such inspections at any reasonable
time. (Ord. 90-32, 5-10-1990)
5-2-11: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMITS:
The chief of police may revoke or suspend any permit issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter for:
   A.   The violation of any provision of this chapter;
   B.   The failure to comply with any applicable law or code;
   C.   The transmission of twelve (12) or more false alarms in a twelve (12)
month period;
   D.   The failure of a permittee or his designated representative to respond
within one hour to a request for access to the protected premises by a village
police officer following the activation of any automatic protection device or
signaling device.
No permit shall be revoked or suspended without the chief of police having
first given the permittee, in writing, the grounds for such revocation or
suspension and giving the permittee an opportunity to request a hearing before
the chief of police or his designee to show why such permit should not be
revoked or suspended. (Ord. 90-32, 5-10-1990)
5-2-12: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the chief of police or his designee shall
have the right to appeal to the village administrator. Such appeal shall be
taken by filing with the village administrator, within ten (10) days after the
action complained of, a written statement, under oath, setting forth,
specifically, the grounds for the appeal. The village administrator shall
thereupon set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal, notice of such
hearing being given to the permittee and chief of police. Decision of the
village administrator on such appeal shall be final. (Ord. 90-32, 5-10-1990)
CHAPTER 3
CONSUMER PROTECTION
SECTION:
5-3-1: Standard Avoirdupois Weight Defined
5-3-2: Standards for Certain Operations
5-3-3: False Weights and Measures
5-3-4: Deceptive Practices Prohibited
5-3-1: STANDARD AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT DEFINED:
The terms "avoirdupois weight" and "standard avoirdupois weight" as used in
this Chapter shall be construed to mean weight expressed in the standard
avoirdupois pound and decimal or common fractions thereof, or in the standard
avoirdupois pound and ounces and fractions thereof. (1976 Code §10-46)
5-3-2: STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN OPERATIONS:
   A.   Sale of Petroleum and Petroleum Products:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at
retail gasoline or petroleum products for motor vehicle use in any manner which
deceives or tends to deceive a purchaser or prospective purchaser as to price,
quality or identity of the product.
The pump, dispensing device or container shall bear the name, brand, type and
other designations as are or may be required by the Federal government and/or
the Department of Agriculture, Weights and Measures Division, of the State of
Illinois relative to the sale of such products.
      2.   All gasoline retailers in this Village shall, if they elect to
advertise the price per gallon of the gasoline they sell at retail at their
stations, advertise such price in accordance with the regulations established
through the Weights and Measures Division, Department of Agriculture, State of
Illinois, which regulations specify the type, size, color, lettering and
specific tax data which must be incorporated in such advertisement. However,
nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to require that the price per gallon of
any grade of gasoline sold at retail on the station premises be displayed or
advertised except on the pumps themselves.
      3.   All gasoline pumps, wherein gasoline is sold at retail in this
Village, shall conform to all regulations of the Federal government and those
of the Weights and Measures Division of the Department of Agriculture, State of
Illinois as to the price per gallon and the computation of the total selling
price for each sale from such pump. (1976 Code §10-47)
   B.   Selling Sand, Crushed Stone and Gravel: Any person engaged in the
business of selling crushed stone, gravel, bank or torpedo sand within the
Village for delivery in the Village shall, in the absence of a contract or
agreement in writing to the contrary, sell the same by standard avoirdupois net
weight only. (1976 Code §10-48)
   C.   Sale of Food Products:
      1.   Net Weight Basis: Whenever the term "weight" is used in this
subsection it shall be construed to mean net weight.
      2.   Prepackaged Commodities: All packages of meat, meat products,
poultry, poultry products, fish, fish products, nonliquid animal products and
cheese prepared and wrapped by the retailer in advance of being exposed or
offered for sale by the retailer shall be accurately weighed and, in addition
to the net weight marked thereon, shall be marked with the price per pound and
the total selling price.
      3.   USDA Grade Mark Required on Meat or Poultry: It shall be unlawful to
advertise, offer for sale or sell any perishable meat or poultry prepackaged or
otherwise, except processed meats and poultry such as sausage, luncheon meat,
smoked or cooked meat, poultry rolls or canned poultry, unless it has one of
the grade marks established by the United States Department of Agriculture
official grading standards, as follows:
         a.   For beef, veal or calf:
            (1)   U.S. Prime;
            (2)   U.S. Choice;
            (3)   U.S. Good;
            (4)   U.S. Standard;
            (5)   U.S. Commercial;
            (6)   U.S. Utility.
         b.   For lamb, yearling and mutton:
            (1)   U.S. Prime;
            (2)   U.S. Choice;
            (3)   U.S. Good;
            (4)   U.S. Utility;
            (5)   U.S. Cull.
         c.   For poultry:
            (1)   USDA Grade A;
            (2)   USDA Grade B;
            (3)   USDA Grade C.
Failure to have such grade marks in the advertisement and on the product or
package or a sign so located as to be clearly identifiable as the grade
designation of the meat or poultry being offered for sale is prima facie
evidence of a violation of this subsection. Grade marks shall be plain and
conspicuous and as prominent as the trademark or brand denoting quality.
      4.   Food Standards: It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise for
sale, keep for the purpose of sale, offer or expose for sale or sell, except
for immediate consumption on the premises, or when sold as one of several
elements comprising a ready-to-eat meal, whether cooked or uncooked, live and
dressed poultry, poultry products, meat, meat products, nonliquid animal
products, fish and fish products, butter, cheese and other similar dairy
products, except eggs, otherwise than by standard avoirdupois net weight
delivered to the purchaser or prospective purchaser; and provided further, that
any of the said products when sold in packaged form, shall comply with this
Code's requirements for packages.
For the purpose of this subsection C4, the following shall be deemed to be a
ready-to-eat meal: a meal comprised of meat, fish or poultry as the main
portion with vegetables and a starch product included. (1976 Code §10-49; 1991
Code)
5-3-3: FALSE WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:
   A.   No person shall sell, offer for sale or keep for the purpose of sale
any commodity in quantities or enumeration of less weight or measure than that
represented upon such sale or offer for sale by the vendor or his agent or
employee; nor shall any person sell or offer for sale any commodity in any
receptacle having a smaller capacity than is represented at the time of such
offer or sale.
   B.   No person shall sell or offer for sale articles of dry or liquid
measurement in other than the legal type of measure required therefor.
   C.   No person weighing or measuring any commodity for sale by dry, liquid,
lineal or superficial measurement, or by any unit of enumeration used in
determining or measuring quantity, or by weight, shall falsify the measure or
weight of such commodity by representing the measure or weight of the same to
be either more or less than the true measure of weight thereof.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person performing services upon any
commodity who shall determine the charge for such services according to the
measure or weight of the commodity upon which the services are performed, to
falsify the measure or weight of the same by representing the measure or weight
to be more than the true measure or weight thereof.
   E.   No person shall deliver to the purchaser or prospective purchaser any
commodity in quantities or enumeration of less weight or measure than that
offered for sale. (1976 Code §10-50; 1991 Code)
5-3-4: DECEPTIVE PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: When used in this Section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
ADVERTISEMENT: Includes the attempt by publication, dissemination, solicitation
or circulation to induce directly or indirectly any person to enter into any
obligation to acquire any title or interest in any merchandise and includes
every word devised to disguise any form of business solicitation by using such
terms as "renewal", "invoice", "bill", "statement", or "reminder", to create an
impression of existing obligation when there is none, or other language to
mislead any person in relation to any sought after commercial transaction.
MERCHANDISE: Includes any objects, wares, goods, commodities, intangibles, real
estate or services.
PERSON: Includes any natural person or his legal representative, partnership,
corporation (domestic and foreign), company, trust, business entity or
association, and any agent, employee, salesman, partner, officer, director,
member, stockholder, associate, or trustee.
SALE: Includes any sale, offer for sale or attempt to sell any merchandise for
cash or on credit.
   B.   Deceptive Practices Prohibited: The following shall be violations of
this Section:
      1.   For any person to act, use or employ any deception, fraud, false
pretense, false promise, misrepresentation, or to conceal, suppress or omit any
material fact with intent that others rely upon such concealment, suppression
or omission in connection with the sale for cash or on credit or advertisement
of any merchandise, whether or not any person has in fact been misled;
provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall apply to the owner or
publisher of newspapers, magazines, publications or printed matter wherein such
advertisement appears, or to the owner or operator of a radio or television
station which disseminates such advertisement when the owner, publisher or
operator has no knowledge of the intent, design or purpose of the advertiser;
and provided, further, that nothing herein contained shall apply to any
advertisement which is subject to and complies with the rules and regulations
of, and the statutes administered by, the Federal Trade Commission.
      2.   Representing that merchandise is new, if it is deteriorated,
altered, reconditioned, reclaimed, used or secondhand.
      3.   Representing that merchandise or services are of a particular
standard, grade or quality, or that merchandise is represented to be of a
particular style or model if it is not.
      4.   Failing to deliver ordered merchandise within a period of sixty (60)
days from the date of order or contract, unless otherwise provided therein,
unless the customer is notified in writing of the reason for the delay and such
merchandise is delivered in less than a total of ninety (90) days, or a refund
is offered within ninety (90) days of the date of the order or contract.
      5.   Making false or misleading statements of fact concerning the reasons
for, existence of, or amounts of price reductions, or engaging in any other
pricing conduct causing confusion or misunderstanding.
      6.   Representing that merchandise or services are those of another when,
in fact, they are not.
      7.   Causing confusion or misunderstanding concerning the source,
sponsorship, approval or certification of merchandise or services.
      8.   Causing confusion or misunderstanding or false or deceptive
representation concerning affiliation, connection or association with, or
certification by another.
      9.   Representing that merchandise or services have sponsorship approval
concerning the source of or certification of merchandise or services when, in
fact, they do not have such approval or sponsorship.
      10.   Failing to state a material fact if such failure tends to deceive
or mislead.
      11.   Advertising for sale at a stated price any items when sufficient
quantities of said advertised items are not readily available to be sold to
purchasers at the advertised price during the effective period of advertisement
for sale. For the purposes of this subsection B11, "readily available" shall
mean available to the customer in an area of the store normally used to display
this type of merchandise, except in a case where the space available for the
items is limited, a sample of the items may be placed in a prominent location,
accompanied by a prominent, written notice clearly stating that the items are
in stock and may be obtained upon request and, "sufficient quantities" shall
mean available in quantities sufficient to meet reasonably expected customer
demand through medium response.
      12.   Charging a higher amount of tax than the legal rate set forth by
laws and regulations existing at the time of sale, shall be considered a
violation of this subsection. (1976 Code §10-51)
CHAPTER 4
REAL ESTATE AND BUSINESS DISCLOSURES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Real Estate And Business Application Requirements
5-4-3: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AGENT: A person authorized to act for another person or corporation.
APPLICANT: One who applies for any benefits on behalf of himself or some other
entity.
BENEFICIAL INTEREST: Any interest in a land trust.
BENEFICIARY: Any person, corporation or other entity having a beneficial
interest in a land trust.
CORPORATION: A body of persons authorized by law to act together as a single
person, and, for the purpose of this section, includes any association, joint
stock company, syndicate or partnership.
LAND TRUST: An express agreement whereby the legal and equitable title to real
estate is held by a trustee for the benefit of beneficiaries who have the
exclusive right to manage and control said real estate or business.
LESSEE: One who has an interest in real estate by virtue of a lease.
NOMINEE: One designated to act for another, with limited authority.
OPTION HOLDER: One having the right to purchase real estate upon compliance
with conditions named in a contract.
STOCKHOLDER: One owning certificates of stock in a corporation or membership in
an association, joint stock company, syndicate or partnership. (1976 Code §9-
4.1)
5-4-2: REAL ESTATE AND BUSINESS APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Any application to the mayor and board of trustees, village clerk, village
administrator or any village boards or commissions for authorization, benefit,
license, permit, variation, zoning amendment or planned unit development
relating to real estate. Any application for a liquor license or a business
required to be licensed by the village shall be signed by the owner, lessee,
option holder, agent or nominee of either.
   A.   If the application is made by a person other than the fee owner, it
shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the owner that the person signing the
application has authority to make the application, and the application shall
disclose the full names, addresses and telephone numbers of the applicant and
owner.
   B.   If the applicant or the owner is a corporation, the application shall
disclose the names and addresses of the officers, directors, registered agent
and those shareholders or members owning in excess of five percent (5%) of the
outstanding stock or interest in the corporation.
   C.   If the applicant is a trustee, the full name, address, telephone number
and the extent of the interest of each beneficiary must be disclosed.
   D.   If the applicant is a beneficiary, nominee or option holder, the
application must disclose the name, address and telephone number of those
persons or entities for whom he is acting, and if it is a corporation, the
provisions of subsection B of this section shall be complied with. (1976 Code
§9-4.1)
5-4-3: PENALTY:
Any person making a false or incomplete statement in the application shall,
upon conviction, be subject to the penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code §9-4.1; amd. Ord. 2001-14, 4-26-2001)
After a statement is determined to be falsified, missing or incorrect, a
written notice of the omission or falsification shall be sent to the applicant;
each day that elapses until the date the required information is furnished or
corrected shall constitute a separate offense. (1976 Code §9-4.1)
CHAPTER 5
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Declaration Of Emergency; Procedures
5-5-3: Scope Of Regulations
5-5-4: Penalty
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CIVIL EMERGENCY:
   A.   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force or
violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to
execute by three (3) or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
   B.   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public healthy, safety and welfare.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village, except
officials of any governmental unit and persons officially assigned to duty with
reference to the civil emergency. (1976 Code §7-23)
5-5-2: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Emergency Proclamation: Whenever an emergency as defined in this
chapter exists, the mayor shall declare the existence by means of a written
declaration setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency. (1976 Code
§7-25)
   B.   Notice Of Proclamation: Upon issuing the proclamation herein
authorized, the chief of police shall notify the news media serving the village
and shall cause three (3) copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of
the emergency to be posted at the following locations within the village: the
village hall and police station, shopping centers and firehouse. (1976 Code §7-
29)
   C.   Curfew Ordered: After proclamation of a civil emergency by the mayor,
he may order a general curfew applicable to such general geographical areas of
the village, or to the village as a whole, as he deems advisable and applicable
during such hours of the day or night as he deems necessary in the interests of
the public safety and welfare. (1976 Code §7-26)
   D.   Regulatory Orders: After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the
mayor may also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all
of the following orders:
      1.   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted.
      2.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer.
      3.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
      4.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
      5.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property. (1976 Code §7-27)
   E.   Duration Of Proclamation: The proclamation herein authorized shall be
effective for a period of forty eight (48) hours unless sooner terminated by a
proclamation of the mayor indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists.
The mayor shall have the power to reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency
at the end of each forty eight (48) hour period during the time that the civil
emergency exists. (1976 Code §7-28)
5-5-3: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this code giving powers to the police department, but shall be
construed together with existing ordinances now in effect for the safety and
welfare of the citizens of the village. (1976 Code §7-24; amd. 1991 Code)
5-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1991 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-6-1: Livestock And Fowl
5-6-2: Wild, Dangerous Animals; Authority To Kill
5-6-3: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-6-4: Hunting, Killing Animals
5-6-5: Domestic Pets Exempt
5-6-1: LIVESTOCK AND FOWL:
   A.   Prohibited Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
raise, breed or maintain a horse, mule, colt, ass, bull, ox, cow, calf, hog,
pig, sheep, cattle or other livestock or fowl of any kind within the corporate
limits of the village, except as otherwise provided herein. (1976 Code §4-1;
amd. Ord. 2001-14, 4-26-2001)
   B.   Bringing Livestock And Fowl Into Village: It shall be unlawful for any
person to take or drive any such animal as is described in subsection A of this
section from outside of the village limits to within the village limits, except
as hereinafter provided. (1976 Code §4-3; amd. Ord. 2001-14, 4-26-2001)
   C.   Permitting Use Of Land For Livestock And Fowl: It shall be unlawful for
any owner, lessee or occupant, or agent, servant or employee thereof, being in
control of any lot, piece or parcel of land within the village limits to
knowingly allow, permit or maintain on any such lot, piece or parcel of land
any animal of the type described in subsection A of this section, except as
hereinafter provided. (1976 Code §4-4; amd. Ord. 2001-14, 4-26-2001)
   D.   Special Permission For Livestock And Fowl: Anything herein to the
contrary notwithstanding, the chief of police may, from time to time in his
sole discretion, permit such animals as are described in subsection A of this
section in such numbers and for such periods of time as he may authorize for
educational, entertainment or other desirable purposes; provided, however, that
animals within the village by virtue of such authorization shall be duly and
properly supervised and shall not be so treated as to constitute a violation of
the "Humane Care for Animals Act" 510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 70/1 et seq.
(1976 Code §4-5)
5-6-2: WILD, DANGEROUS ANIMALS; AUTHORITY TO KILL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, raise, breed or maintain within
the corporate limits of the village, except as otherwise provided herein, any
wild animal, including, but not limited to, any wild mammal, reptile, fowl,
insect or arachnid, which is not naturally tame or gentle but is of a wild
nature or disposition and which, because of its size, vicious nature,
unpleasant odor, poisonous venom or other characteristics of the same nature,
could constitute a danger to human life, health or property. The term
"dangerous animal" also means and includes any domestic mammal, reptile, fowl,
insect or arachnid which, because of its size or vicious propensity or other
characteristics, could constitute a danger to human life, health or property.
(1976 Code §4-1; amd. Ord. 2001-14, 4-26-2001)
The members of the police department are authorized to kill any dangerous
animal of any kind when it is reasonably necessary for the protection of any
person or property. (1976 Code §4-9)
5-6-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Abandoning Animals: It shall be unlawful to abandon any animal,
including domestic pets, within the village. (1976 Code §4-6; amd. Ord. 2001-
14, 4-26-2001)
   B.   Nuisance Animals: It shall be unlawful to so maintain any animal or
animals within the village as to create or constitute a nuisance. (1976 Code
§4-7; amd. Ord. 2001-14, 4-26-2001)
   C.   Noisy Animals: It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which
disturbs the peace by loud noises at any time of the day or night. (1976 Code
§4-8)
5-6-4: HUNTING, KILLING ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to kill any animal within the corporate
limits of the village except as may otherwise be permitted pursuant to state
statute or this code.
Any person charged with the violation of this section may, in lieu of
prosecution for a violation thereof, make payment in accordance with section
1-4-2 of this code. (1976 Code §4-10)
5-6-5: DOMESTIC PETS EXEMPT:
This chapter shall not be construed as prohibiting the keeping of domesticated
household pets, including, but not limited to, dogs, cats, pigeons, canaries,
parrots, parakeets and other like domesticated household species within the
corporate limits of the village. (1976 Code §4-2)
ARTICLE A. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-6A-1: Definitions
5-6A-2: Number Of Dogs And Cats Restricted
5-6A-3: Running At Large Prohibited
5-6A-4: Rabies Control
5-6A-5: Dangerous, Vicious Dogs
5-6A-6: Redemption Of Impounded Dogs And Cats
5-6A-7: Exemptions From Provisions
5-6A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, except as otherwise indicated, the following
definitions will apply:
ATTACK: Any aggressive, menacing or vicious physical contact between any dog
and any person or other animal, including, but not limited to, contact of the
mouth or teeth of the dog with the victim of the attack and any striking or
scratching of the victim of the attack by the paws of any dog.
BITE: Seizing with the teeth or jaws so that the person or other animal seized
has been nipped, gripped, cut, wounded or pierced, and further includes the
contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
CONFINEMENT STRUCTURE: A securely locked pen, kennel or other structure
designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with the standards herein.
Such pen, kennel or other structure must have secure sides and a secure top
attached to the sides and must be locked with a key or combination lock when
animals are within the structure. Such structure must have a secure bottom or
floor attached to the sides, or the sides of the structure must be embedded in
the ground no less than two feet (2'). All such structures must comply with all
zoning and building regulations of the village 1  and be adequately lighted,
ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR: The county administrator appointed pursuant to 510
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.
DOG, DANGEROUS: Any dog which, unmuzzled, in a vicious or terrorizing manner,
approaches any person or other animal in an apparent attitude of attack upon
any street, sidewalk or any public grounds or place, or any premises other than
those of its owner; provided, that such approach is unprovoked.
DOG, VICIOUS: Any dog which has, when unprovoked, bitten or attacked any person
or other animal on public or private property; has a known tendency, propensity
or disposition to attack persons or animals without provocation; or has been
found to be a dangerous dog upon three (3) separate occasions.
GUIDE DOG: A dog trained and used to aid the blind or hearing impaired;
provided, that the owner of any such dog complies with the provisions contained
in 510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8.
K-9 DOG: A dog trained and used in the performance of official police duties
authorized by the Chief of Police; provided, that any such dog shall be
currently inoculated against rabies as provided for in 510 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8.
LEASH: A strap or chain, manufactured for use as a leash, securely fastened to
the collar or harness of a dog which shall in no case be longer than eight feet
(8') and shall be of sufficient strength to keep such dog under control.
MUZZLE: A device constructed of strong, soft material or metal which will
prevent a dog from biting any person or animal; provided, that such muzzle must
be made in a manner which will not cause injury to the dog nor interfere with
its vision or respiration.
OWNER: Any person having a right of property in a dog, or who keeps or harbors
a dog, or who has it in his care, or acts as its custodian, or who knowingly
permits a dog to remain on or about any premises occupied by him. (1976 Code
§4-21)
 
Notes
1 1. See titles 9 and 8, respectively, of this code.
5-6A-2: NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to house, keep or maintain within a single
dwelling unit more than three (3) dogs or three (3) cats, or any combination
thereof, over the age of four (4) months within the corporate limits of the
Village. Any person violating this Section may, in lieu of prosecution for
violation hereof, make payment in accordance with Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (1976 Code §4-22)
5-6A-3: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any dog or cat to run at large. For the purposes of
this Section, any dog or cat not upon the premises of its owner or such other
person having custody, possession or control over any such dog or cat, which is
not on a leash and under the control of a person physically able to control it,
shall be deemed to be running at large. All dogs or cats found to be running at
large shall be promptly impounded by the Chief of Police, or any person
authorized by him for this purpose.
Any person owning, having custody, possession or control over any dog or cat
which violates any provisions of this Section shall be guilty of an unlawful
act. Any person who violates this Section may, in lieu of prosecution for a
violation hereof, make payment in accordance with Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (1976 Code §4-24)
5-6A-4: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Annual Inoculation Required: Every owner of a dog or cat four (4)
months or more of age within the corporate limits of the Village shall cause
such dog or cat to be inoculated annually against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian. Evidence of such rabies inoculation shall be entered on a
certificate, the form of which shall be approved by the DuPage and/or Will
County Boards and which shall be signed by the licensed veterinarian
administering the vaccine. In addition, the owner of any such inoculated dog or
cat shall cause a rabies inoculation tag to be affixed to the collar or harness
of such dog or cat. (1976 Code §4-26; 1991 Code)
Any person violating this subsection may, in lieu of prosecution for violation
hereof, make payment in accordance with Section
1-4-2 of this Code; provided, however, the owner provides proof of inoculation
in conformance with the provisions of this subsection. (1976 Code §4-26)
   B.   Confinement of Rabies Suspects; Reports:
      1.   Animals Exhibiting Rabies Symptoms; Biting Animals:
         a.   The owner of any dog, cat or other animal which exhibits clinical
signs of rabies, whether or not such dog, cat or other animal has been
inoculated against rabies, shall immediately notify the Chief of Police. The
Chief of Police shall cause any dog, cat or other animal exhibiting clinical
signs of rabies to be confined, under suitable observation, for a period of at
least ten (10) days, unless officially authorized by the County Administrator,
in writing, to release it sooner. Any dog, cat or other animal in direct
contact with such dog, cat or other animal, whether or not the exposed dog, cat
or other animal has been inoculated against rabies, shall be confined as
recommended by the County Administrator. (1976 Code §4-27)
         b.   Whenever the Chief of Police receives information that any person
has been bitten by a dog, cat or other animal, the Chief of Police shall cause
such dog, cat or other animal to be confined under the observation of a
licensed veterinarian for a period of ten (10) days. Such veterinarian shall
report the clinical condition of the dog, cat or other animal immediately, with
the confirmation in writing, to the Chief of Police and the County
Administrator within twenty four (24) hours after the dog, cat or other animal
is presented for examination, giving the owner's name, address, the date of
confinement, the breed, description, age and sex of such dog, cat or other
animal. The ten (10) day observation period shall not be applicable to wildlife
not owned by any person. (1976 Code §4-27; 1991 Code)
         c.   At the end of the confinement period, the veterinarian shall
submit a written report to the Chief of Police and County Administrator
advising them of the final disposition of such dog, cat or other animal.
      2.   Confinement of Inoculated Animals: When evidence is presented that
such dog, cat or other animal was inoculated against rabies within the time
prescribed by law, it may be confined in the house of its owner or in a manner
which will prohibit it from biting any person for a period of ten (10) days if
the County Administrator or other licensed veterinarian adjudges such
confinement satisfactory.
At the end of any confinement period, such dog, cat or other animal shall be
examined by the County Administrator or another licensed veterinarian.
   C.   Animal Bites; Duties and Prohibitions:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person having knowledge that any person has
been bitten by a dog, cat or other animal to refuse to notify the Chief of
Police or the County Administrator promptly.
      2.   It is unlawful for the owner of such dog, cat or other animal to
euthanize, sell, give away or otherwise dispose of any such dog, cat or other
animal known to have bitten a person, until it is released by the County
Administrator or his authorized representative. It is unlawful for the owner of
such dog, cat or other animal to refuse or fail to comply with the written or
printed instructions made by the County Administrator or the Chief of Police.
If such instructions cannot be delivered in person, they shall be mailed to the
owner of such dog, cat or other animal by regular mail, postage prepaid. The
affidavit or testimony of the Chief of Police, the County Administrator or
their authorized representatives of the delivery or mailing of such
instructions is prima facie evidence that the owner of such dog, cat or other
animal was notified of his responsibilities.
   D.   Rabies Control Costs: Any expense incurred in the handling of any dog,
cat or other animal under the provisions of this Section shall be borne by the
owner. (1976 Code §4-27)
5-6A-5: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: 1  Each vicious or dangerous dog is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance and shall only be kept, harbored, maintained, owned or
possessed within the corporate limits of the Village in strict conformance with
the provisions of this Section.
   B.   Dangerous Dogs:
      1.   Requirements and Prohibitions:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any dangerous dog to leave the premises
of the owner, unless such dog is securely muzzled, restrained on a leash and
under the direct control and supervision of the owner; provided that, in no
event, shall such dog be under the direct control or supervision of any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any dangerous dog to annoy, endanger or
approach, in an apparent attitude of attack, any person or animal.
      2.   Report of Incident; Investigation:
         a.   Any person or persons who witness an incident involving a bite,
attack or menacing behavior by any dog occurring in the Village shall file a
sworn affidavit of complaint with the Police Department setting out the nature
and date of the incident, the owner of the dog, the address of the owner and
description of the dog.
         b.   The Police Department, upon receipt of an affidavit of complaint,
shall investigate the complaint to determine whether the dog is dangerous or
vicious. If the Police Department finds that the dog is dangerous or vicious,
the owner shall be notified by certified mail of such finding. No dog shall be
found dangerous or vicious if the attack or menacing behavior was directed at a
person who was, at the time in question, committing a wilful trespass or other
tort upon the premises of the owner; or was teasing, tormenting, abusing or
assaulting the dog; or who has in the past teased, tormented, abused or
assaulted the dog; or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
         c.   The owner of a dog found to be dangerous or vicious may, within
seven (7) days of the mailing of notice by the Police Department, make a
written request to the Police Department for a review of such finding. Such
review shall be made by the Chief of Police within seven (7) days of such
request and shall be based upon the sworn affidavit of complaint and any
statements or evidence presented by the owner, witnesses to the incident,
Police Department personnel or any other person possessing information relevant
to such finding. The Chief of Police shall issue the written findings within
five (5) days after the review, sustaining or overruling the finding made by
the Police Department. 2
   C.   Vicious Dogs:
      1.   Requirements and Prohibitions:
         a.   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, maintain, own or in any way
possess within the corporate limits of the Village any vicious dog unless such
dog is at all times kept in a confinement structure.
         b.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection C1a above, a vicious
dog may be allowed out of a confinement structure if it is necessary in order
to obtain veterinary care for the vicious dog or to comply with the order of a
court of competent jurisdiction. At any time that a vicious dog is outside of a
confinement structure, it shall be securely muzzled, restrained on a leash and
under the direct control and supervision of the owner; provided, that in no
event shall such dog be under the direct control or supervision of any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years.
         c.   No owner of a vicious dog shall sell, otherwise transfer, set
free, abandon or give any vicious dog to any person who resides in the village.
         d.   All vicious dogs kept, harbored, maintained, owned or in any way
possessed in the village shall be spayed or neutered.
      2.   Warning Signs: The owner of a vicious dog shall post a warning sign,
which is readable from not less than one hundred feet (100'), in a prominent
place in front of the owner's premises to inform the public of the presence of
the vicious dog. Such sign shall be of metal, with black letters at least two
inches (2") in height on a white background. Such sign shall state:
Warning: Vicious Dog on Premises.
      3.   Impoundment And Destruction Of Vicious Dog: Any vicious dog which:
a) is outside of a confinement structure and not in compliance with the
provisions of subsection C1b of this section, or b) inflicts a bite on any
person, shall be impounded by the police department and turned over to a
licensed veterinarian for destruction by lethal injection 3 . (1976 Code §4-23)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  4-1-1 of this Code.
2 1. See Section
  5-6-2 of this Chapter, authority of police to kill dangerous animals.
3 1. See section
  5-6-2 of this chapter.
5-6A-6: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS AND CATS:
Whenever a dog or cat has been impounded in accordance with this article, the
chief of police or his authorized agent shall give notice to redeem of not less
than seven (7) days to the owner of such dog or cat, if known. Such notice
shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner. An affidavit or
testimony of the chief of police or his authorized agent who mailed such notice
shall be prima facie evidence of receipt of such notice by the owner of such
dog or cat. In case the owner of any impounded dog or cat desires to make
redemption thereof within the time prescribed, he may do so on the following
conditions:
   A.   He must present proof of current rabies inoculation.
   B.   He must pay for the rabies inoculation.
   C.   He must pay for the board of the dog or cat for the period it has been
impounded.
   D.   He must pay for any other fines imposed pursuant to this article. (1976
Code §4-28)
   E.   He must pay the administrative fee as provided for in section
5-1-12 of this title. (Ord. 2005-61, 11-3-2005)
5-6A-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Notwithstanding any provision contained in this article to the contrary, K-
9 and guide dogs shall be exempt from the provisions of sections
5-6A-3 and
5-6A-5 of this article. (1976 Code §4-25)
CHAPTER 7
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-7-1: Offenses Against The Person
5-7-1-1: Disorderly Conduct
5-7-1-2: Reckless Conduct
5-7-1-3: Assault
5-7-1-4: Battery
5-7-1-5: Mob Action
5-7-1-6: Compelling Organization Membership In A Threatening Manner
5-7-1-7: Intimidation
5-7-1-8: Telephone Harassment
5-7-2: Offenses Relating To Village Officials
5-7-2-1: Resisting Or Obstructing Village Officials
5-7-2-2: Impersonating Village Officials
5-7-3: Offenses Involving Property
5-7-3-1: Trespass
5-7-3-2: Property Damage
5-7-3-3: Retail Theft
5-7-3-4: Library Theft
5-7-3-5: Theft
5-7-3-6: Graffiti
5-7-4: Public Indecency
5-7-5: Fireworks
5-7-6: Curfew On Halloween
5-7-7: Loitering, Drug Related
5-7-8: Penalty
5-7-1: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON:
5-7-1-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
A person commits disorderly conduct, which is unlawful, when he knowingly:
   A.   Disturbing The Peace: Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to
alarm or disturb another and to provoke a breach of the peace; or
   B.   False Fire Alarms: Transmits in any manner to any fire protection
district serving the village a false alarm of fire knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such fire
exists; or
   C.   False Bomb Threats: Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to
the effect that a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such
place that its explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or
explosive is concealed in such place; or
   D.   False Alarms To Police: Transmits in any manner to any peace officer,
public officer or public employee a report to the effect that an offense has
been committed, knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no
reasonable ground for believing that such an offense has been committed; or
   E.   False Reports Regarding Abused Children: Transmits a false report to
the department of children and family services under section 4 of the "Abused
and Neglected Child Reporting Act" being 325 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4; or
   F.   Window Peeping: Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or
unlawful purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any
window or other opening in it; or
   G.   Harassment By Collection Agencies: While acting as a collection agency
as defined in the "Collection Agency Act" being 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
410/1-1 et seq., or as an employee of such collection agency, while attempting
to collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged debtor which
is designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor. (1976 Code §10-
2)
   H.   Group Disturbance: While in a group of three (3) or more persons,
without legal justification, causes a breach of the public peace and peace of
another person while either on public or private property. (Ord. 94-69, 9-22-
1994)
5-7-1-2: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
Any person who causes bodily harm to or endangers the bodily safety of an
individual by any means commits reckless conduct if he performs recklessly the
acts which cause the harm or endanger safety, whether they otherwise are lawful
or unlawful. (1976 Code §10-14)
5-7-1-3: ASSAULT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault within the village. A
person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he engages in conduct
which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery. (1976
Code §10-3)
5-7-1-4: BATTERY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a battery within the village. A
person commits battery if he intentionally or knowingly without legal
justification and by any means:
   A.   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
   B.   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual. (1976 Code §10-4)
5-7-1-5: MOB ACTION:
Mob action is hereby declared to be unlawful. Mob action consists of any of the
following:
   A.   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two (2) or
more persons acting together and without authority of law; or
   B.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
   C.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons, without authority of law, for
the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone supposed to
have been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence. (1976
Code §10-8)
5-7-1-6: COMPELLING ORGANIZATION MEMBERSHIP IN A THREATENING MANNER:
It is unlawful for any person to expressly or impliedly threaten to do bodily
harm or to do bodily harm to an individual or to that individual's family or
use any other criminally unlawful means to solicit or cause any person to join
any organization or association regardless of the nature of such organization
or association. (1976 Code §10-18)
5-7-1-7: INTIMIDATION:
A person commits intimidation, which is unlawful, when, with the intent to
cause another to perform or to admit the performance of any act, he
communicates to another a threat to perform without lawful authority any of the
following acts:
   A.   Inflict physical harm on the person threatened or any other person or
on property; or
   B.   Subject any person to physical confinement or restraint; or
   C.   Commit any criminal offense; or
   D.   Accuse any person of an offense; or
   E.   Expose a person to hatred, contempt or ridicule; or
   F.   Take action as a public official against anyone or anything, or
withhold official action, or cause such action or withholding; or
   G.   Bring about or continue a strike, boycott or other collective action.
(1976 Code §10-19)
5-7-1-8: TELEPHONE HARASSMENT:
Harassment by telephone is use of telephone communications for any of the
following purposes:
   A.   Making any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is obscene,
lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent with an intent to offend; or
   B.   Making a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, with
intent to abuse, threaten or harass any person at the called number; or
   C.   Making or causing the telephone of another repeatedly to ring with the
intent to harass any person at the called number; or
   D.   Making repeated telephone calls, during which conversation ensues,
solely to harass any person at the called number; or
   E.   Knowingly permitting any telephone under one's control to be used for
any of the purposes mentioned herein. (1976 Code §10-22)
5-7-2: OFFENSES RELATING TO VILLAGE OFFICIALS:
5-7-2-1: RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING VILLAGE OFFICIALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly resist or obstruct the
performance by one known to the person to be an officer or employee of the
village of any authorized act within his official capacity. (Ord. 2001-14, 4-
26-2001)
5-7-2-2: IMPERSONATING VILLAGE OFFICIALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely represent himself to be a public
officer or a public employee. (Ord. 2001-14, 4-26-2001)
5-7-3: OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY:
5-7-3-1: TRESPASS:
   A.   Criminal Trespass To Land:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon the land, or any
part thereof, of another after receiving, immediately prior to such entry,
notice from the owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden, or to remain
upon the land of another after receiving notice from the owner or occupant to
depart.
      2.   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of subsection A1 of this section if he has been notified personally,
either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such
entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to such
land or the forbidden part thereof.
      3.   This subsection A does not apply to any person, whether a migrant
worker or otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of his
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on such land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodation for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on such land at the request of, or by occupancy, leasing or other
agreement or arrangement with the owner or his agent, nor to anyone invited by
such migrant worker or other person so living on such land to visit him at the
place he is so living upon the land.
   B.   Criminal Trespass To State-Supported Land:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon land supported in
whole or in part with state funds or federal funds administered or granted
through state agencies or any building on such land after receiving,
immediately prior to such entry, notice form the state or its representative
that such entry is forbidden, or to remain upon such land or in such building
after receiving notice from the state or its representative to depart, and who
thereby interferes with another person's lawful use or enjoyment of such
building or land.
      2.   A person has received notice from the state within the meaning of
subsection B1 of this section if he has been notified personally, either orally
or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry to him
or a group of which he is a part, has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to such land or the forbidden part thereof.
   C.   Criminal Trespass To Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly and without authority enter any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft or
any part thereof of another without his consent. (1976 Code §10-1)
5-7-3-2: PROPERTY DAMAGE:
   A.   Definitions: The following words shall have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them when used in this section:
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PROPERTY: Any real or tangible personal property.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Knowingly damage any property of another without his consent; or
      2.   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosive, damage property of
another; or
      3.   Knowingly start a fire on the land of another without his consent;
or
      4.   Knowingly injure a domestic animal of another without his consent;
or
      5.   Knowingly deposit on the land or in the building of another, without
his consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby
intend to interfere with the use by another of the land or the building; or
      6.   Damage any property with intent to defraud an insurer; or
      7.   Knowingly shoot a firearm at any portion of a train 1 ; or
      8.   Knowingly damage the property of another without his consent by
defacing, deforming or otherwise damaging such property by the use of paint or
other similar substance; or
      9.   Wilfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with or destroy
or deface any fire hydrant or any fire hose or any fire engine, or other public
or private firefighting equipment, or any apparatus pertaining to such
equipment, or intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper authorization
2 . (1976 Code §10-16)
 
Notes
1 1. See article B of this chapter.
2 2. See also section
  7-5A-10 of this code.
5-7-3-3: RETAIL THEFT:
   A.   Retail Theft Defined: A person commits the offense of retail theft when
he or she knowingly:
      1.   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transferred any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale
in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
price of such merchandise; or
      2.   Alters, transfers or removes any label, price tag or marking
indicative of value or any other markings which aid in determining value
affixed to any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a
retail mercantile establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise
personally or in consort with another at less than the full retail value with
the intention of depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such
merchandise; or
      3.   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      4.   Under-rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full
retail value of the merchandise; or
      5.   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart.
   B.   Presumptions: If any person:
      1.   Conceals upon his or her person or among his or her belongings
unpurchased merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail
mercantile establishment; and
      2.   Removes that merchandise beyond the last known station for receiving
payments for that merchandise in that retail mercantile establishment, such
person shall be presumed to have possessed, carried away or transferred such
merchandise with the intention of retaining it or with the intention of
depriving the merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of such
merchandise without paying the full retail price of such merchandise.
   C.   Detention: Any merchant who has reasonable grounds to believe that a
person has committed retail theft may detain such person on or off the premises
of a retail mercantile establishment in a reasonable manner and for a
reasonable length of time for all or any of the following purposes:
      1.   To request identification;
      2.   To verify such identification;
      3.   To make reasonable inquiry as to whether such person has in his
possession unpurchased merchandise, and to make reasonable investigation of the
ownership of such merchandise;
      4.   To inform a peace officer of the detention of that person and
surrender that person to the custody of a peace officer;
      5.   In the case of a minor, to inform a peace officer, the parents,
guardian or other private person interested in the welfare of that minor of
this detention and to surrender custody of such minor to such person.
A merchant may make a detention as permitted herein off the premises of a
retail mercantile establishment only if such detention is pursuant to an
immediate pursuit of such person.
   D.   Affirmative Defense: A detention as permitted in this Section
5-7-3-3 does not constitute an arrest or an unlawful restraint, nor shall it
render the merchant liable to the person so detained. (1976 Code §10-20)
5-7-3-4: LIBRARY THEFT:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this Section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
LIBRARY CARD: A card or plate issued by a library facility for purposes of
identifying the person to whom the library card was issued as authorized to
borrow, subject to all limitations and conditions imposed on such borrowing by
the library facility issuing such card, library material.
LIBRARY FACILITY: Any public library or museum, or any library or museum of an
educational, historical or eleemosynary institution, organization or society.
LIBRARY MATERIAL: Any book, plate, picture, photograph, engraving, painting,
sculpture, statue, artifact, drawing, map, newspaper, pamphlet, brochure,
magazine, manuscript, document, letter, microfilm, sound recording, audio-
visual material, magnetic or other tape, electronic data processing record or
other documentary, written or printed material, regardless of physical form or
characteristics, or any part thereof, belonging to or on loan to or otherwise
in the custody of a library facility.
PREMISES OF A LIBRARY FACILITY: The interior of a building, structure or other
enclosure in which a library facility is located and in which the library
facility keeps, displays and makes available for inspection or borrowing
library material, but for purposes of this Section
5-7-3-4, such premises do not include the exterior appurtenances to such
building, structure or enclosure nor the land on which such building, structure
or enclosure is located.
   B.   Library Theft: A person commits the offense of library theft when he or
she:
      1.   Knowingly and intentionally removes any library material from the
premises of a library facility without authority to do so; or
      2.   Knowingly and intentionally conceals any library material upon his
or her person or among his or her belongings while still in the premises of a
library facility and in such manner that the library material is not visible
through ordinary observation although there may be some notice of its presence,
and removes such library material beyond the last point in the premises of that
library facility at which library materials may be borrowed in accordance with
procedures established by that library facility for the borrowing of library
material; or
      3.   With the intent to deceive, borrows or attempts to borrow any
library material from a library facility by (i) use of a library card issued to
another without the other's consent, or (ii) use of a library card knowing that
it is revoked, cancelled or expired, or (iii) use of a library card knowing
that it is falsely made, counterfeit or materially altered; or
      4.   Borrows from a library facility library material which has an
aggregate value of three hundred dollars ($300.00) or more pursuant to an
agreement with or procedure established by the library facility for the return
of such library material, and wilfully, without good cause, fails to return the
library material so borrowed in accordance with such agreement or procedure,
and further wilfully, without good cause, fails to return such library material
within thirty (30) days after receiving written notice by registered mail from
the library facility demanding the return of such library material.
   C.   Provisions Posted: Each library facility shall post a copy of this
Section
5-7-3-4 at a location adjacent to each entrance to the premises of the library
facility and at each point in the premises of the library facility at which the
borrowing of library material occurs. (1976 Code §10-21)
5-7-3-5: THEFT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit theft.
   A.   A person commits theft when he knowingly:
      1.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
or
      2.   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
      3.   Obtains by threat control over the property of the owner; or
      4.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him to
believe that the property was stolen, and
         a.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property; or
         b.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner
as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
         c.   Uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit; or
      5.   Obtains or exerts control over property in the custody of any law
enforcement agency which is explicitly represented to him by any law
enforcement officer or any individual acting in behalf of a law enforcement
agency as being stolen.
   B.   A person who obtains control over lost or mislaid property commits
theft when he:
      1.   Knows or learns the identity of the owner or knows or is aware of,
or learns of a reasonable method of identifying the owner, and
      2.   Fails to take reasonable measures to restore the property to the
owner, and
      3.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property.
   C.   A person commits theft from a coin-operated machine when he knowingly
and without authority and with intent to commit a theft from such machine,
opens, breaks into, tampers with, or damages a coin-operated machine.
As used hereinabove, the term "coin-operated machine" shall include any
automatic vending machine or any part thereof, parking meter, coin telephone,
coin laundry machine, coin dry cleaning machine, amusement machine, music
machine, vending machine dispensing goods or services, money changer.
   D.   It shall be prima facie evidence that a person "knowingly obtains or
exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner" when a lessee of the
personal property of another fails to return it to the owner within thirty (30)
days after written demand from the owner for its return. A notice in writing,
given after the expiration of the leasing agreement, addressed and mailed, by
registered mail, to the lessee at the address given by him and shown on the
leasing agreement shall constitute proper demand.
   E.   It is no defense to a charge of theft of property that the offender has
an interest therein, when the owner also has an interest to which the offender
is not entitled. (Ord. 92-24, 5-14-92)
5-7-3-6: GRAFFITI:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to inscribe, draw or otherwise
place upon the surface of any structure or wall, visible to any member of the
public, any graffiti. For purposes of this Section, the term "graffiti" shall
be deemed to include any work, phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch, letters or
defacing of any nature containing references including, but not limited to,
sexual activity, any portion of the human anatomy, criminal activities, vulgar
language, fighting words, groups which promote or are involved in gang
activity, references to any person or persons or any other matter.
   B.   It shall be a defense to an alleged violation of subsection A of this
section that the graffiti was placed on any structure or wall with the prior
written consent of the owner of such wall or structure as to location, method
of placement and content of such graffiti, and further provided that the
placement of any such graffiti is otherwise in conformance with the provisions
of title 9 of this code.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the owner and/or occupant of any structure or
wall upon which any graffiti prohibited by subsection A of this section is
placed to remove same and to otherwise repair or restore the structure or wall
to its condition existing prior to the placement of such graffiti within three
(3) days after the date that such graffiti is placed on any such structure or
wall. It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or occupant of any structure or
wall to fail to remove any graffiti as provided for hereinabove.
   D.   The village shall have the right, but not the obligation, after giving
fifteen (15) days' prior written notice to the owner of any structure or wall
upon which prohibited graffiti is placed, to go upon any property containing
such structure or wall and remove same. The village shall invoice the owner of
any such structure or wall for all costs associated with the removal of the
graffiti. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any such structure or wall to
fail to pay the village invoice when due. In addition, such costs of removal
shall constitute a lien on the property upon which such structure or wall is
located. Upon the failure of the owner to pay graffiti removal costs as
provided for above, the village may file a lien therefor with the appropriate
recorder of deeds. (Ord. 92-24, 5-14-1992)
5-7-4: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
Any person of the age of seventeen (17) years and upwards who performs any of
the following acts in a public place commits a public indecency, which is
unlawful:
   A.   An act of sexual intercourse;
   B.   An act of deviate sexual conduct;
   C.   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to satisfy
the sexual desire of the person;
   D.   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of either
sex;
   E.   Urination;
   F.   Defecation.
"Public place", for the purpose of this section, means any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others. (1976 Code §10-11)
5-7-5: FIREWORKS 1 :
   A.   Prohibited Generally: It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale,
store, use, explode or possess any fireworks as defined by the Illinois
Compiled Statutes in the village, except as may be necessary for the
performance of a licensed public exhibition of pyrotechnics as hereinafter
provided. Any such storage must be under the supervision of and subject to the
approval of the village chief of police and the state fire marshal. (1976 Code
§10-7; amd. Ord. 2001-14, 4-26-2001)
   B.   Public Displays 2 : Public exhibitions of fireworks and pyrotechnics
may be given if a permit therefor is granted by the mayor and board of
trustees. Such exhibitions shall be given subject to the supervision of the
state fire marshal or some person designated by him. (1976 Code §10-7)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-1I-9 of this code.
2 2. See section
  8-1I-2, section F-3101.3.1 of this code.
5-7-6: CURFEW ON HALLOWEEN 1 :
No person shall engage in the activity commonly known as "trick or treat" after
the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. within the limits of the village on
either October 31 or any other day which may be lawfully designated as
Halloween. (Ord. 93-51, 10-14-1993)
 
Notes
1 3. See section 5-7A-1 of this chapter.
5-7-7: LOITERING, DRUG RELATED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any thoroughfare, or
place open to the public, for the purpose of engaging in activity contrary to
any of the provisions of the "Illinois Controlled Substance Act", 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 570/100 et seq., as amended, the "Illinois Cannabis Control
Act", 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq., as amended, or any other
local, state or federal law prohibiting the manufacture, distribution,
delivery, use or possession of a controlled substance (hereinafter "drug
laws").
   B.   Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether
such purpose is manifested are the following:
      1.   Such person is a known unlawful drug user, possessor, or seller. For
purposes of this section, a "known unlawful drug user, possessor, or seller" is
a person who has, within the knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted
in any court within this state or any other state of any violation involving
the use, possession, or sale of any of the substances referred to in the drug
laws within the previous year, or a person who displays physical
characteristics of drug intoxication or usage, such as "needle tracks", or a
person who possesses drug paraphernalia as defined in the "Illinois Drug
Paraphernalia Control Act", 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/1 et seq.;
      2.   Such person is currently subject to an order of court prohibiting
his or her presence in a high drug activity geographic area and such person is
located in such an area;
      3.   Such person behaves in such a manner as to raise a reasonable
suspicion that he or she is about to engage in or is then engaged in an
unlawful drug-related activity, including, but not limited to, such person
acting as a "lookout";
      4.   Such person is a known member of a "gang" or association which has
as its purpose illegal drug activity; for purposes of this Section, a "known"
member of a "gang" is a person, who has, within the knowledge of the arresting
officer, been convicted in any court, within the previous year, of any
violation involving illegal gang activity;
      5.   Such person transfers small objects or packages for currency in a
furtive fashion;
      6.   Such person takes flight upon the appearance of a police officer;
      7.   Such person manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or
any object which reasonably could be involved in an unlawful drug-related
activity.
   C.   No determination of intent shall be made absent an affirmative act by
the person to be charged, which act or acts, when taken in context of the
totality of the surrounding circumstances, shall constitute a substantial step
towards the violation of the aforementioned "drug laws". (Ord. 92-24, 5-14-
1992)
5-7-8: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this Chapter
shall be subject to the following penalties: (Ord. 92-24, 5-14-1992)
   A.   A fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than the
maximum amount permitted by Section
1-4-1 of this Code; or (Ord. 92-24, 5-14-1992; amd. Ord. 96-26, 6-13-1996)
   B.   A period of conditional discharge not to exceed one year on such
conditions as the court sees fit; provided, however, that the conditions of
conditional discharge shall include that the defendant: (Ord. 92-24, 5-14-1992)
      1.   Pay a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than the
maximum amount permitted by Section
1-4-1 of this Code; and (Ord. 92-24, 5-14-1992; amd. Ord. 96-26, 6-13-1996)
      2.   Not violate any criminal statute or quasi-criminal ordinance of any
jurisdiction; and
      3.   Report to and appear in person before such person or agency as
directed by the court; and
      4.   Make restitution or reparation in an amount not to exceed actual
loss or damage to property and pecuniary loss in those cases involving damage
to property and pecuniary loss.
   C.   Upon conviction of an offense in which a weapon was used or possessed
by the offender, any weapon seized shall be confiscated by the trial court.
Any stolen weapon so confiscated, when no longer needed for evidentiary
purposes, shall be returned to the person entitled to possession if known. For
all other confiscated weapons after the disposition of a case and when no
longer needed for evidentiary purposes, and when in due course no legitimate
claim has been made for such weapons, the court may in its discretion order
such weapons preserved as property of the Village. If, after the disposition of
a case, a need still exists for the use of said confiscated weapons for
evidentiary purposes, the court may transfer such weapons to the custody of the
State Department of Corrections for preservation. (Ord. 92-24, 5-14-1992)
ARTICLE A. MINORS 1
SECTION:
5-7A-1: Curfew
5-7A-2: Parental Responsibility
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  3-3-22 of this code, liquor regulations regarding minors.
5-7A-1: CURFEW 1 :
   A.   Established: It shall be unlawful for any person younger than seventeen
(17) years old to be present at, in, or on any public assembly, building,
place, street, or highway within the corporate limits of the village at any of
the following times, except only as provided in subsection B of this section:
(Ord. 2004-44, 7-1-2004; amd. Ord. 2010-25, 5-6-2010)
      1.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on Saturday; and
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on Sunday; and
      3.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, or Thursday and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day.
   B.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to any person who is:
      1.   Accompanied by and supervised by a parent or legal guardian or by
some other responsible companion who is at least twenty one (21) years old and
who is approved by a parent or legal guardian; (Ord. 2004-44, 7-1-2004)
      2.   Engaged in a lawful business or occupation which Illinois law
authorizes any person younger than seventeen (17) years old to perform; (Ord.
2004-44, 7-1-2004; amd. Ord. 2010-25, 5-6-2010)
      3.   Attending or traveling to or from an official school, religious, or
civic activity;
      4.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution or rights protected by article 1, sections 3, 4 and 5 of the
constitution of the state of Illinois, or both, such as the free exercise of
religion, freedom of speech and the right of assembly;
      5.   Involved in an emergency involving the protection of a person or
property from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial
damage; or
      6.   Traveling between states or internationally from a location outside
of Illinois to another location outside of Illinois.
      7.   Married or has been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of mature minors act, as amended.
   C.   Enforcement: A police officer shall not take any enforcement action
under this section unless the police officer reasonably believes that a
violation of this section has occurred and that no exception listed in
subsection B of this section is applicable.
   D.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for a parent, legal
guardian, or other responsible companion to knowingly permit a person in her or
his custody or control to violate this section. (Ord. 2004-44, 7-1-2004)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  5-7-6, "Curfew On Halloween", of this chapter.
5-7A-2: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them:
LEGAL GUARDIAN: Includes a person appointed guardian or given custody of a
minor by a circuit court of this state, but does not include a person appointed
guardian or given custody of a minor under the "juvenile court act" approved
August 5, 1965, as now or hereafter amended, being 705 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 405/1-1 et seq., as amended.
MINOR: A person who is above the age of eleven (11) years, but not yet nineteen
(19) years of age.
   B.   Liable For Damages: The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated
minor who resides with such parent or legal guardian is liable for actual
damages for the wilful or malicious acts of such minor which cause injury to a
person or property.
   C.   Enforcement: The village, or any county, township or any other
political subdivision or department of the state of Illinois, or any person,
partnership, corporation, association or any incorporated or unincorporated
religious, educational or charitable organization is entitled to enforce the
liability imposed by this section.
   D.   Limitations On Recovery Of Damages: No recovery under this section may
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) actual damages for each person, or
legal entity as provided in subsection C of this section, for each occurrence
of such wilful or malicious acts by the minor causing injury, in addition to
taxable court costs. In determining the damages to be allowed in action under
this section for personal injury, only medical, dental and hospital expenses
and expenses for treatment by Christian Science practitioners and nursing care
appropriate thereto may be considered.
   E.   Effect On Other Actions: This section shall not affect the recovery of
damages in any other cause of action where the liability of the parent or legal
guardian is predicated on a common law basis. (1976 Code §10-23)
ARTICLE B. WEAPONS
SECTION:
5-7B-1: Unlawful Use Of Weapons
5-7B-2: Discharging Firearms, Air Rifles
5-7B-3: Unlawful Possession Of Firearms Or Ammunition
5-7B-1: UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS:
   A.   Definitions: When used in this article, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed herein:
AIR RIFLE: Means and includes any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring
pistol, BB gun, paintball gun, pellet gun or any implement that is not a
firearm which impels a breakable paintball containing washable marking colors
or a pellet constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead or other hard materials
with a force that reasonably is expected to cause bodily harm.
CARTRIDGE: A tubular metal case having a projectile affixed at the front
thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end thereof, with the propellant
contained in such tube between the projectile and the cap.
EXPLOSIVE BULLET: The projectile portion of an ammunition cartridge which
contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon contact with
the flesh of a human or an animal.
FIREARM REPLICA: Means and includes any replica of a firearm that is of similar
shape and size of a firearm that would cause a reasonable person to believe it
was a firearm.
STUN GUN OR TASER: Any device which is powered by electrical charging units
such as batteries and which fires one or several barbs attached to a length of
wire and which, upon hitting a human, can send out current capable of
disrupting the person's nervous system in such a manner as to render him
incapable of normal functioning. (1976 Code §10-5; amd. Ord. 2005-48, 8-18-
2005)
   B.   Committing Offense Of Unlawful Use Of Weapons: A person commits the
offense of unlawful use of weapons when he knowingly:
      1.   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries any bludgeon,
blackjack, slingshot, sand club, sandbag, metal knuckles, or any knife commonly
referred to as a switchblade knife which has a blade that opens automatically
by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of
the knife; or (1976 Code §10-5)
      2.   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun, taser, air rifle, firearm replica or any
other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument of like character; or (1976 Code
§10-5; amd. Ord. 2005-48, 8-18-2005)
      3.   Carries on or about his person in any vehicle, a tear gas gun
projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a nonlethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person eighteen (18) years of
age or older; or (1976 Code §10-5)
      4.   Carries or possesses in any vehicle or concealed on or about his
person, except when on his land or in his own abode or fixed place of business,
any pistol, revolver, stun gun, taser, air rifle, firearm replica or other
firearm; or (1976 Code §10-5; amd. Ord. 2005-48, 8-18-2005)
      5.   Sets a spring gun; or
      6.   Possesses any device or attachment of any kind designed, used or
intended for use in silencing the report of any firearm; or
      7.   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries any weapon from
which eight (8) or more shots or bullets may be discharged by a single function
of the firing device, any shotgun having one or more barrels of less than
eighteen inches (18") in length, sometimes called a sawed-off shotgun, or any
weapon made from a shotgun whether by alteration, modification or otherwise, if
such weapon, as modified or altered, has an overall length of less than twenty
six inches (26"), or a barrel length of less than eighteen inches (18"), or any
bomb, bombshell, grenade, bottle or other container containing an explosive
substance of over one-quarter (1/4) ounce for like purposes, such as, but not
limited to, black powder bombs and Molotov cocktails or artillery projectiles;
or (1976 Code §10-5)
      8.   Carries or possesses any firearm, stun gun, taser, air rifle,
firearm replica or other deadly weapon in any place which is licensed to sell
intoxicating beverages, or at any public gathering held pursuant to a license
issued by the village or any public gathering at which an admission is charged,
excluding a place where a showing, demonstration or lecture involving the
exhibition of unloaded firearms is conducted; or
      9.   Carries or possesses in a vehicle or on or about his person any
pistol, revolver, stun gun, taser, air rifle, firearm replica or firearm when
he is hooded, robed or masked in such manner as to conceal his identity; or
      10.   Carries or possesses on or about his person, upon any public
street, alley or other public lands within the corporate limits of the village,
except when an invitee thereon or therein, for the purpose of the display of
such weapon or the lawful commerce in weapons, or except when on his land or in
his own abode or fixed place of business, any pistol, revolver, stun gun,
taser, air rifle, firearm replica or other firearm; or (1976 Code §10-5; amd.
Ord. 2005-48, 8-18-2005)
      11.   Sells, manufactures or purchases any explosive bullet.
   C.   Presence Of Unlawful Weapons In Vehicles: The presence in an
automobile, other than a public omnibus, of any weapon, instrument or substance
referred to in subsection B7 of this section is prima facie evidence that it is
in the possession of, and is being carried by, all persons occupying such
automobile at the time such weapon, instrument or substance is found, except
under the following circumstances:
      1.   If such weapon, instrument or instrumentality is found upon the
person of one of the occupants therein; or
      2.   If such weapon, instrument or substance is found in an automobile
operated for hire by a duly licensed driver in the due, lawful and proper
pursuit of his trade, then such presumption shall not apply to the driver.
   D.   Exemptions From Provisions:
      1.   Subsections B3, B4 and B10 of this section do not apply to or affect
any of the following:
         a.   Peace officers or any person summoned by any such officers to
assist in making arrests or preserving the peace while he is actually engaged
in assisting such officer.
         b.   Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense while in the performance of their official duty or while
commuting between their homes and place of employment.
         c.   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the Illinois national guard or the reserve officers training corps
while in the performance of their official duty.
         d.   Special agents employed by a railroad or a public utility to
perform police functions or guards of armored car companies while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or commuting
between their homes and places of employment; watchmen while actually engaged
in the performance of the duties of their employment; security guards while
actually engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or
commuting between their homes and places of employment; provided, that such
commuting is accomplished within one hour from departure from home or place of
employment, as the case may be. (1976 Code §10-5)
For purposes of this provision, "security guards" means persons employed by a
licensed detective agency as defined by the "private detective, private alarm
and private security act of 1983", 1  as amended, who are so employed for any
of the purposes enumerated in such act, and any person regularly employed in a
commercial or industrial operation for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to such commercial or industrial operation while
actually engaged in the performance of his duty or traveling between sites or
properties belonging to the employer of such security guards, and who, as such
security guards, are members of a security force of thirty (30) persons or more
registered with the department of professional regulation; provided, that such
security guard has successfully completed a course of study, approved by and
supervised by the department of professional regulation, consisting of not less
than thirty (30) hours of training which shall include theory of law
enforcement, liability for acts and the handling of weapons. The department of
professional regulation shall provide suitable documentation to demonstrate the
successful completion of such course. Such documentation shall be carried by
the security guard at all times when he is in possession of a concealed weapon.
(1976 Code §10-5; amd. 1991 Code)
         e.   Agents and investigators of the Illinois legislative
investigating commission authorized by the commission to carry the weapons
specified in subsections B3 and B4 of this section, while on duty in the course
of any investigation for the commission. (1976 Code §10-5)
         f.   Persons employed by a financial institution for the protection of
other employees and property related to such financial institution, while
actually engaged in performance of their duties, commuting between their homes
and places of employment, or traveling between sites or properties owned or
operated by such financial institution; provided, that any person so employed
has successfully completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the
department of professional regulation, consisting of not less than thirty (30)
hours of training which includes theory of law enforcement, liability for acts
and the handling of weapons.
The department of professional regulation shall provide suitable documentation
to demonstrate the successful completion of such course, and such documentation
shall be carried by the person so trained at all times when such person is in
the possession of a concealable weapon. (1976 Code §10-5; amd. 1991 Code)
For purposes of this subsection D1f, "financial institution" means a bank,
savings and loan association or credit union.
         g.   Manufacture, transportation or sale of weapons to persons
authorized under subsections D1a through D1f of this section to possess those
weapons.
      2.   Subsections B4 and B10 of this section do not apply to or affect any
of the following:
         a.   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, patrons of such ranges while such members or patrons are using
their firearms on those target ranges.
         b.   Duly authorized military or civil organizations while parading,
with the special permission of the governor.
         c.   Licensed hunters or fishermen while engaged in hunting or
fishing.
         d.   Transportation of weapons broken down in a nonfunctioning state
or not immediately accessible. (1976 Code §10-5)
         e.   Transportation of an air rifle or firearm replica unloaded and
enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box, shipping box, or other hard
container. (Ord. 2005-48, 8-18-2005)
      3.   Subsection B7 of this section does not apply to or affect any of the
following:
         a.   Peace officers.
         b.   Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense.
         c.   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the Illinois national guard while in the performance of their
official duty.
         d.   Persons authorized by federal law to possess weapons defined in
subsection B7 of this section.
         e.   Manufacture, transportation or sale of machine guns to persons
authorized under subsections D3a through D3d of this section to possess machine
guns, if the machine guns are broken down in a nonfunctioning state or not
immediately accessible.
      4.   Subsection B1 of this section does not apply to the purchase,
possession or carrying of a blackjack or slingshot by a peace officer.
      5.   Subsection B8 of this section does not apply to any owner, manager
or authorized employee of any place specified in that subsection nor to any law
enforcement officer.
      6.   Subsections B7 and B11 of this section do not apply to:
         a.   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the Illinois national guard, while in the performance of their
official duty.
         b.   Bona fide collectors of antique or surplus military ordnance.
         c.   Laboratories having a department of forensic ballistics or
specializing in the development of ammunition or explosive ordnance.
         d.   Commerce, preparation, assembly or possession of explosive
bullets by manufacturers of ammunition licensed by the federal government in
connection with the supply of those organizations and persons exempted by
subsection D6a of this section, or like organizations and persons outside this
state, or the transportation of explosive bullets to any organization or
persons exempted in this section by a common carrier or by a vehicle owned or
leased by an exempted manufacturer. (1976 Code §10-5)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 445/1 et seq.
5-7B-2: DISCHARGING FIREARMS, AIR RIFLES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
AIR RIFLE: Means and includes any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring
pistol, BB gun, paintball gun, pellet gun or any implement that is not a
firearm which impels a breakable paintball containing washable marking colors
or a pellet constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead or other hard materials
with a force that reasonably is expected to cause bodily harm.
FIREARM: Any device, by whatever name known, which is designed to expel a
projectile or projectiles by the action of an explosion, expansion of gas or
escape of gas; excluding, however:
      1.   Any air rifle; or
      2.   Any device used exclusively for signaling or safety and required or
recommended by the United States coast guard or the interstate commerce
commission; or
      3.   Any device used exclusively for the firing of stud cartridges,
explosive rivets or similar industrial ammunition; or
      4.   Any antique firearms (other than a machine gun) which, although
designed as a weapon, the department of state police of the state of Illinois
finds by reason of the date of its manufacture, value, design and other
characteristics is primarily a collector's item and is not likely to be used as
a weapon. (1976 Code §10-6; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 2005-48, 8-18-2005)
   B.   Discharge Of Firearm Or Air Rifle Prohibited: It is unlawful for any
person, except as hereinafter provided, to discharge any firearm or air rifle
in the village.
   C.   Exemptions:
      1.   Any officer of the law may discharge a firearm in the performance of
his duty.
      2.   A citizen may discharge a firearm when lawfully defending his person
or property.
      3.   Persons may discharge firearms while engaged in skeet shooting at
locations where skeet shooting is permitted in the village by the board of
trustees. The board may issue a permit, revocable at any time it may determine,
to country clubs where the skeet shooting is coincidental to the operation of
the club and where the club obtains and files with the village the written
consent of all owners of improved properties within the village limits
adjoining the country club and the written consent of all owners improved
properties within the village limits whose property abuts on portions of the
streets which abut the property of the country club. (1976 Code §10-6)
5-7B-3: UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS OR AMMUNITION:
A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of firearms or firearm
ammunition when:
   A.   He is under eighteen (18) years of age and has in his possession any
firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person; or
   B.   He is under twenty one (21) years of age, has been convicted of a
misdemeanor other than a traffic offense or adjudged delinquent and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his possession; or
   C.   He has been convicted of a felony under the laws of this or any other
jurisdiction within five (5) years from release from the penitentiary, or
within five (5) years of conviction if penitentiary sentence has not been
imposed, and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his possession; or
   D.   He is a narcotic addict and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in
his possession; or
   E.   He has been a patient in a mental hospital within the past five (5)
years and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his possession; or
   F.   He is mentally retarded and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in
his possession; or
   G.   He has in his possession any explosive bullet.
For the purposes of this subsection, "explosive bullet" means the projectile
portion of an ammunition cartridge which contains or carries an explosive
charge which will explode upon contact with the flesh of a human or an animal.
"Cartridge" means a tubular metal case having a projectile affixed at the front
thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end thereof, with a propellant
contained in such tube between the projectile and the cap. (1976 Code §10-9)
ARTICLE C. DRUGS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
5-7C-1: Possession Of Cannabis
5-7C-2: Drug Paraphernalia
5-7C-1: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS:
   A.   Cannabis Defined: "Cannabis" includes marijuana, hashish and other
substances which are identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis
sativa, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any
part of such plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of such plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol
(THC) and all other cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring
or synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly
by extraction, or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a
combination of extraction and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the
mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made
from the seeds of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin
extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant
which is incapable of germination.
   B.   Except if otherwise authorized by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
it shall be unlawful for any person who is twenty-one (21) years of age or
older and a resident of the State of Illinois to knowingly possess more than
thirty (30) grams of cannabis flower; more than 500 milligrams of THC contained
in cannabis-infused product; or more than five (5) grams of cannabis
concentrate. The possession limits are to be considered cumulative.
   C.   No person who is twenty-one (21) years of age or older shall knowingly
use cannabis or any cannabis product in the corporate limits of the Village:
      1.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
      2.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
      3.   In any motor vehicle;
      4.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide licensed
child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
      5.   In any public place; or
      6.   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under twenty-one
(21) years of age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
   D.   As used in this Section, "public place" means any place where a person
could reasonably be expected to be observed by others. "Public place" includes
all parts of buildings owned in whole or in part, or leased, by the State or a
unit of local government. "Public place" does not include a private residence
unless the private residence is used to provide licensed child care, foster
care, or other similar social service care on the premises.
   E.   No person who is twenty-one (21) years of age or older and either a
resident or non-resident of the State of Illinois shall knowingly obtain, seek
to obtain, or possess an amount of cannabis from a dispensing organization or
craft grower that would cause him or her to exceed the possession limit under
this Section, including cannabis that is cultivated by a person under the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act or obtained under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act.
   F.   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit his or
her residence, any other private property under his or her control, or any
vehicle, conveyance, or watercraft under his or her control to be used by an
invitee of the parent's child or the guardian's ward, if the invitee is under
the age of twenty-one (21), in a manner that constitutes a violation of the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act. A parent or guardian is deemed to have
knowingly permitted his or her residence, any other private property under his
or her control, or any vehicle, conveyance, or watercraft under his or her
control to be used in violation of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act if he or
she knowingly authorizes or permits consumption of cannabis by underage
invitees.
   G.   It shall be unlawful for any person, regardless of age, to:
      1.   Smoke cannabis in any place where smoking is prohibited under the
Smoke Free Illinois Act;
      2.   Operate, navigate, or be in actual physical control of any motor
vehicle, aircraft or motorboat while using or under the influence of cannabis
in violation of Section 11-501 or 11-502.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code;
      3.   Facilitate the use of cannabis by any person who is not allowed to
use cannabis under the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act or the Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Program Act; or
      4.   Transfer cannabis to any person contrary to the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act or the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
   H.   Purchase Of Cannabis, Tobacco Products, Alternative Nicotine Products,
Smoking Materials Or Drug Paraphernalia By Any Person Under the Age Of Twenty-
One Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years to purchase, attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain or attempt to obtain
any tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, smoking materials, drug
paraphernalia or cannabis within the corporate limits of the Village.
      2.   It also shall be unlawful for any person under twenty-one (21) years
of age to misrepresent his or her identity or age, or to use any false,
fraudulent, or not actually their own identification for the purpose of
purchasing, attempting to purchase, or otherwise obtaining or attempting to
obtain any tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, smoking materials,
drug paraphernalia, cannabis or any cannabis product.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining cannabis or any cannabis product to sell, give, or deliver such
cannabis or any cannabis product to another person under twenty-one (21) years
of age within the corporate limits of the Village unless authorized by the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act or by the Community College
Cannabis Vocational Pilot Program. (1976 Code §10-17; amd. 1991 Code; Ord.
2020-5, 2-6-2020)
5-7C-2: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Drug Paraphernalia Defined: The term "drug paraphernalia" means all
equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use
or designed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing
into the human body cannabis and/or a controlled substance as those substances
are defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550 and/or 570, as amended. The
term "drug paraphernalia" shall be deemed to include, but not by way of
limitation, the following items:
      1.   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived.
      2.   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled
substances.
      3.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance.
      4.   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances.
      5.   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances.
      6.   Diluents and adulterants such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose used, intended for use or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances.
      7.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana.
      8.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances.
      9.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances.
      10.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or designed for
use in storing or concealing controlled substances.
      11.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use or designed for use in injecting controlled substances into the human body.
      12.   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
         a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
         b.   Water pipes;
         c.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         d.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         e.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials such
as a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         f.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         g.   Chamber pipes;
         h.   Carburetor pipes;
         i.   Electric pipes;
         j.   Air driven pipes;
         k.   Bongs;
         l.   Ice pipes or chillers.
      13.   Cocaine spoons, that is a spoon with a bowl so small that the
primary use for which it is reasonably adopted or designed is to hold or
administer cocaine, and which is so small as to be unsuited for the typical,
lawful uses of a spoon. A cocaine spoon may or may not be labeled as a
"cocaine" spoon or "coke" spoon.
      14.   Marijuana or hashish pipe, that is a pipe characterized by a bowl
which is so small that the primary use for which it is reasonably adopted or
designed is the smoking of marijuana or hashish rather than lawful smoking
tobacco and which may or may not be equipped with a screen. (Ord. 2011-44, 9-8-
2011)
   B.   Aids In Interpretation: In determining whether an object is drug
paraphernalia, a court or other authority should consider, in addition to all
other logically relevant factors, the following:
      1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use.
      2.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone in control of
the object under any state or federal law relating to any controlled substance.
      3.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this section.
      4.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances.
      5.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object.
      6.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows or
should reasonably know intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this section; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object,
as to a direct violation of this section shall not prevent a finding that the
object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
      7.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use.
      8.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use.
      9.   National and local advertising concerning its use.
      10.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
      11.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
      12.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprises.
      13.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
      14.   Expert testimony concerning its use. (1976 Code §10-106)
   C.   Drug Paraphernalia Prohibited: It shall be a violation of this section
for any merchant or other person to knowingly sell, offer for sale, display or
be in the possession of any drug paraphernalia. (1976 Code §10-107)
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than the maximum amount permitted by section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation exists with respect to display
and offer for sale of drug paraphernalia, and each separate occurrence of sale
of drug paraphernalia shall constitute separate offenses. (1976 Code §10-107;
amd. Ord. 96-26, 6-13-1996)
ARTICLE D. LASER POINTERS
SECTION:
5-7D-1: Definitions
5-7D-2: Prohibited Acts
5-7D-3: Parental Responsibility
5-7D-4: Exemptions
5-7D-5: Penalty
5-7D-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Article, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed herein:
LASER POINTER: Any device that emits light amplified by the stimulated emission
of radiation or other energy that is visible to the human eye.
PERSON: Any natural person, corporation, partnership, firm, organization or
other legal entity.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of persons
has access, including, but not limited to, any street, highway, sidewalk, right
of way, parking lot, plaza, place of amusement, park, playground, restaurant
and any hallway, lobby and other portion of an apartment, condominium,
townhouse, or hotel building or complex not constituting a room or dwelling
designated for actual residence.
SCHOOL PREMISES: Any building, grounds, or facilities, or any portion thereof,
owned, occupied by, or under the custody or control of public or private
institutions for the primary purpose of providing educational or recreational
instruction to students, and any vehicles owned, operated or leased by or on
behalf of such institutions that are used to transport such students or the
personnel of such institutions. (Ord. 99-53, 8-12-1999)
5-7D-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to give, sell or offer to give or
sell a laser pointer to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to purchase a laser pointer.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to possess a laser pointer while upon school premises; provided, however,
that nothing in this Section shall preclude the temporary transfer on school
premises of a laser pointer to, or possession of a laser pointer on school
premises by, a person under the age of eighteen (18) years for a valid
instructional, school-related or employment purpose, where such laser pointer
is provided by the school and used under the supervision of a school staff
person, other authorized instructor, employee or employer's agent.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to possess a laser pointer in any public place; provided, however, that
nothing in this Section shall preclude the temporary transfer in a public place
of a laser pointer from an employer to, or possession in a public place of an
employer's laser pointer by, a person under the age of eighteen (18) years,
during such person's hours of employment, for a valid employment purpose, where
such employer's laser pointer is used under the supervision of the employer or
employer's agent.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to direct light from a laser
pointer so as to cause a laser beam, sight or "dot" to be placed upon any
person, building, vehicle, or other object. (Ord. 99-53, 8-12-1999)
5-7D-3: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian to knowingly suffer or
permit any child, of which he or she may be the parent or legal guardian, to
violate any provision of this Article. (Ord. 99-53, 8-12-1999)
5-7D-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following persons are exempt from the provisions of this Article:
   A.   Persons eighteen (18) years of age and older who use such laser
pointers to conduct educational or instructional presentations.
   B.   Survey, construction, and medical workers eighteen (18) years of age
and older who require such laser pointers to perform their job tasks.
   C.   Law enforcement officers who may use laser sighting devices and laser-
equipped firearms in the performance of their duties. (Ord. 99-53, 8-12-1999)
5-7D-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this Article shall, upon conviction,
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than the maximum
amount permitted by Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 99-53, 8-12-1999)
ARTICLE E. SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS
SECTION:
5-7E-1: Definitions
5-7E-2: Sale Or Delivery
5-7E-3: Possession
5-7E-4: Use
5-7E-5: Violation; Penalty
5-7E-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires different meaning:
PRODUCT CONTAINING A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG: Any product containing a
synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen, as those terms
are defined herein such as, but not limited to, the examples of brand names or
identifiers listed on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated herein.
SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID: Any laboratory created compound that functions similar
to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), including,
but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound,
mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including isomers, esters,
ethers, salts, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor agonist,
including, but not limited to:
JWH-007 (1-pentyl-2-methyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole)
JWH-015 ((2-Methyl-1-propyl-1H-indol-3-yl)-1- naphthalenylmethanone)
JWH-018 (1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole)
JWH-019 (1-hexyl-3-(naphthalen-1-oyl)indole)
JWH-073 (naphthalen-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3-yl)methanone)
JWH-081 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3- yl)methanone)
JWH-098(4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentyl-2-methylindol-3- yl)methanone)
JWH-122 (1-Pentyl-3-(4-methyl-1-naphthoyl)indole)
JWH-164 (7-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3- yl)methanone
JWH-200 (1-(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-3-yl)-naphthalen-1- ylmethanone)
JWH-203 (2-(2-chlorophenyl)-1-(1-pentylindol-3-yl)ethanone
JWH-210 (4-ethylnaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3- yl)methanone
JWH-250 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole)
JWH-251 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methylphenylacetyl)indole)
JWH-398 (1-pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1-naphthoyl)indole)
HU-210 ((6aR,10aR)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2- methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1- ol)
HU-211 ((6aS,10aS)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2- methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1- ol)
HU-308 ([(1R,2R,5R)-2-[2,6-dimethoxy-4-(2-methyloctan-2- yl)phenyl]-7,7-
dimethyl-4-bicyclo[3.1.1]hept-3-enyl] methanol)
HU-331 ((3-hydroxy-2-[(1R,6R)-3-methyl-6-(1-methylethenyl)- 2-cyclohexen-1-yl]-
5-pentyl-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione)
CP 55,940 (2-[(1R,2R,5R)-5-hydroxy-2-(3-hydroxypropyl) cyclohexyl]-5-(2-
methyloctan-2-yl)phenol)
CP 47,497 (2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan- 2-yl)phenol) and
its homologues
WIN 55,212-2((R)-(+)-[2,3-Dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4- morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo
[1,2,3-de)-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1- nepthalenylmethanone)
RCS-4 ((4-methoxyphenyl)(1-pentyl-1H-indol-3-yl)methanone)
RCS-8(1-(1-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-1H-indol-3-yl)-2-(2- methoxyphenyl)ethanone)
SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/HALLUCINOGEN: Any compound that mimics the effects of any
federally controlled schedule I substance, including, but not limited to, any
quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture, preparation,
substance and their analog (including salts, isomers, esters, ethers and salts
of isomers) containing substances which have a psychedelic/hallucinogenic
effect on the central nervous system and/or brain, including, but not limited
to:
2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-ethylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-E);
2-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-D);
2-(4-Chloro-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-C);
2-(4-Iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-I);
2-(4-(Ethylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-T-2);
2-(4-(Isopropylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-T-4);
2-(2,5-Dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-H);
2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-nitro-phenyl)ethanamine (2C-N);
2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-(n)-propylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-P).
SYNTHETIC STIMULANT: Any compound that mimics the effects of any federally
controlled schedule I substance such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and
MDEA, including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including
salts, isomers, and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a
stimulant effect on the central nervous system, including, but not limited to:
3-Fluoromethcathinone
4-Fluoromethcathinone (other name: flephedrone)
3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone (other name: methylone, MDMC)
3,4-Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (other name: MDPV)
4-Methylmethcathinon (other names: mephedrone, 4-MMC)
4-Methoxymethcathinone (other names: methedrone, bk-PMMA, PMMC)
4-Ethylmethcathinone (other name: 4-EMC)
Ethcathinone
Beta-keto-N-methylbenzodioxyolylpropylamine (other names: butylone, bk-MBDB)
Napthylpyrovalerone (other names: naphyrone, NRG-1)
N,N-dimethylcathinone (other name: metamfepramone)
Alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: alpha-PPP)
4-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MOPPP)
3,4-methylenedioxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MDPPP)
Alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone (other name: alpha-PVP)
6,7-kihydro-5H-indeno(5,6-d)-1,3-dioxal-6-amine) (other name: MDAI)
Any compound that is structurally derived from 2-amino-1-phenyl-1 propanone by
modification or substitution in any of the following ways:
In the phenyl ring to any extent with alkyl, alkoxy, alkylenedioxy, haloalkyl,
or halide substituents, whether or not further substituted in the phenyl ring
by one or more other univalent substituents;
At the 3-position with an alkyl substituent;
At the nitrogen atom with alkyl, dialkybenzyl, or methoxybenzyl groups;
Or by inclusion of the nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure. (Ord. 2011-59, 12-
8-2011)
5-7E-2: SALE OR DELIVERY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale or deliver any
product containing a synthetic stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen. It shall
be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale or deliver any product
containing a synthetic cannabinoid, except for those establishments designated
as a "Cannabis Dispensary" and/or "Medical Cannabis Dispensary," as per section
9-2-2  herein. (Ord. 2011-59, 12-8-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-26, 9-7-2023)
5-7E-3: POSSESSION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly purchase or possess a product
containing a synthetic stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen. It shall be
unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to purchase or
possess a product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/
hallucinogen. (Ord. 2011-59, 12-8-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-26, 9-7-2023)
5-7E-4: USE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or be under the influence of a
synthetic stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen. It shall be unlawful for any
person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to use or be under the influence
of a synthetic cannabinoid. (Ord. 2011-59, 12-8-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-26, 9-7-
2023)
5-7E-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity violating Section
5-7E-3  or
5-7E-4  of this article shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. Any person, firm,
corporation, or other legal entity violating Section
5-7E-2  of this article shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) nor more than two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. In addition,
any business found liable of violating Section
5-7E-2  of this article will be subject to suspension or revocation of its
business license in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section
3-1-14  herein. (Ord. 2011-59, 12-8-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-26, 9-7-2023)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
VEHICLE LICENSES
(Rep. by Ord. 97-75, 12-11-1997, eff. 5-1-1998)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Adoption of the Illinois Vehicle Code
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-3: Scope
6-2-4: Application of Provisions; Exemptions
6-2-5: Powers of Village; Signs Posted
6-2-5-1: Authority of Chief of Police
6-2-6: Obedience to Police
6-2-7: Traffic Obstructions
6-2-8: Accidents
6-2-9: Enforcement of Provisions
6-2-1: ADOPTION OF THE ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE:
In lieu of using any section, or in addition to any section of this Chapter,
the officer issuing a citation may issue it by using any of the sections of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 to 5/20-204, as
the same may be amended from time to time, which are incorporated and adopted
by reference as a part of this Chapter, three (3) copies of said Code having
been on file in the office of the Clerk of the Village and available for public
use, inspection and examination for at least thirty (30) days prior to the
adoption of this Chapter as provided in the Illinois Municipal Code, 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2. All citations issued of these violations
shall be in the name of this Village and shall refer to the numbered sections
in the Illinois Vehicle Code, but shall also be referred to as an ordinance
violation in the traffic ticket or complaint. (Ord. 90-02, 1-11-90)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following terms are used in this Title, they shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Section:
ALLEY: A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings and not used for general traffic circulation. (1976 Code §19-1)
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Emergency vehicles of Municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper local
authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the fire protection districts and
ambulances.
BICYCLE: Every device having two (2) tandem wheels propelled by human power
upon which any person may ride, except scooters and similar devices. (1976 Code
§19-1; 1991 Code)
BUSINESS DISTRICT: That territory within the Village contiguous to and
including a highway when within any six hundred feet (600') along such highway
there are buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including, but
not limited to, hotels, banks or office buildings, railroad stations and public
buildings which occupy at least three hundred (300') of frontage collectively
on one side or both sides of the highway.
CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every street or highway in respect to which owners
or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of access
to or from the same except at such points only as may be determined by the
public authority having jurisdiction over such street or highway.
CROSSWALK:
   A.   That portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the prolongation
or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalk at street intersections.
   B.   Any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing
by lines or other marking on the surface.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EXPLOSIVES: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used
or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing of the combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing, that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled. (1976 Code
§19-1)
FIRE LANE: A particular area, portion of a street, parking lot, driveway,
street or highway that has been designated as a fire lane and indicated by
signs erected giving notice thereof, to be reserved for exclusive use of
emergency vehicles of the fire protection districts and/or the Police
Department in responding to calls. (1976 Code §19-1; 1991 Code)
FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Any liquid which has a flash point of seventy degrees (70o)
Fahrenheit or less as determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed-cup test
device.
IMPROVED HIGHWAY: Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and crushed
stone or gravel.
INTERSECTION:
   A.   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral
curblines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two
(2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict.
   B.   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways forty feet (40') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
LOADING ZONE: The space reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles while
loading or unloading passengers or materials.
LOCAL AUTHORITIES: The Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village or any
officer, board or department of the Village having authority to adopt and
enforce regulations relating to traffic under the Constitution and laws of the
State.
METAL TIRE: Every tire, the surface of which in contact with the highway or
roadway is wholly or partly of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires but not
operated upon rails. For the purpose of this Title, motor vehicles are divided
into two (2) divisions:
   A.   First Division: Those vehicles which are designed and used for the
carrying of not more than ten (10) persons.
   B.   Second Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten (10) persons; those designed or used for living quarters and
those motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or
cargo, and those motor vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and
used as motor vehicles of the second division.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
OWNER: A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in the event a motor
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof, with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated
in the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of such motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this Title.
PARKWAY: That portion of the dedicated right of way lying between the property
line and the roadway.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or corporation.
PNEUMATIC TIRE: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
PREFERENTIAL STREET: Every street or portion thereof upon which vehicular
traffic is by law given the right of way over vehicular traffic upon
intersecting streets and when yield signs are erected as provided in the
Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, State of Illinois. 1
PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
PROPERTY LINE or RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE: The line marking the boundary between any
street or highway and the property abutting thereon. (1976 Code §19-1)
PUBLIC BUILDING: A building used by the Village or by any park district, school
district, library district, fire protection district, township, the County of
DuPage or Will, the State of Illinois or by the United States government. (1976
Code §19-1; 1991 Code)
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: That territory within the Village contiguous to and
including a highway not comprising a business district when the property on
such highway for a distance of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main
improved for residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants preference to the other.
ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles
and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any
part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
SAFETY ZONE: The area of space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle owned or operated by or for a public or
governmental agency or by or for a private or religious organization for the
transportation of pupils in connection with any school activity. This
definition does not include a bus operated by a public utility or a Municipal
organization authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers.
SCHOOL ZONE: The portions of streets and highways within the Village adjacent
to school buildings and grounds and to which special speed restrictions apply
and are so marked by proper signs giving notice thereof.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curbline or the lateral line of
a roadway and the adjacent property line intended for use of pedestrians.
SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
STOP INTERSECTIONS: Every intersection of streets at which all vehicular
traffic is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and
when stop signs are erected as provided in the uniform act regulating traffic
on highways, state of Illinois.
STOP STREET: Every street or portion thereof upon which vehicular traffic is
required by law to stop before entering or crossing an intersecting street or
crosswalk and when stop signs are erected as provided in the uniform act
regulating traffic on highways, state of Illinois.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the property lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
THROUGH STREET: Every street or portion thereof at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic upon intersecting streets is required by law to stop before
entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are erected as provided in
the uniform act regulating traffic on highways, state of Illinois. (1976 Code
§19-1)
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances,
either singly or together, while using any street for the purposes of travel.
(1976 Code §19-1; amd. 1991 Code)
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices conforming
with the "Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices For Streets And Highways",
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
U-TURN: To operate a vehicle by turning so as to proceed in the opposite
direction on the same street.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of
one-fourth (1/4) of a mile or more.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY: When required by an official sign means the act of granting
the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic
within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left, but
when the roadway is clear the vehicle having so yielded the right of way may
proceed into the intersection. (1976 Code §19-1)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS.
6-2-3: SCOPE:
The provisions relating to the operation of vehicles refer exclusively to the
operation of vehicles upon highways and streets in the village, except where a
different place is specifically referred to in a given section, paragraph or
provision, and except that the provisions of section
6-2-8 of this chapter and subsections
6-4-16A and B of this title shall apply upon highways and elsewhere throughout
the village 1 . (1976 Code §19-2)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-201.
6-2-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Government Vehicles; Authorized Emergency Vehicles: The provisions of
this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles upon the highways shall apply
to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the United States, this
state, this village or any county, city, town, district or any other political
subdivision of the state, except as provided in this title and subject to such
specific exceptions as set forth in this title with reference to authorized
emergency vehicles.
   B.   Public Works Vehicles: The provisions of this title, with the exception
of section
6-2-8 of this chapter and subsections
6-4-16A and B of this title do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and
other equipment while actually engaged in work upon the surface of the highway
but apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(1976 Code §19-9)
   C.   Persons Riding Bicycles, Animals, Animal Drawn Vehicles: Every person
riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a vehicle upon a
roadway, shall be subject to the provisions of this title applicable to the
driver of a vehicle, except those provisions of this title which by their
nature can have no application. (1976 Code §19-10)
6-2-5: POWERS OF VILLAGE 1 ; SIGNS POSTED:
The mayor and board of trustees, with respect to streets and highways under
their jurisdiction and within the reasonable exercise of the police power,
shall have the power to:
   A.   Regulate the standing or parking of vehicles;
   B.   Regulate traffic by means of police officers or traffic control
signals;
   C.   Regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways 2 ;
   D.   Designate particular highways as one-way highways and require that all
vehicles thereon be moved in one specific direction;
   E.   Regulate the speed of vehicles in public parks subject to the
limitations set forth in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-604;
   F.   Designate any highway as a through highway and require that all
vehicles stop before entering or crossing the same or designate any
intersection as a stop intersection or a yield right of way intersection and
require all vehicles to stop or yield the right of way at one or more entrances
to such intersections; (1976 Code §19-6)
   G.   Restrict the use of highways as authorized in 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/15; (1976 Code §19-6; amd. 1991 Code)
   H.   Regulate the operation of bicycles and require the registration and
licensing of same, including the requirement of a registration fee;
   I.   Regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles at intersections;
   J.   Alter the speed limits as authorized in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-604;
   K.   Prohibit U-turns;
   L.   Prohibit pedestrian crossings at other than designated and marked
crosswalks or at intersections;
   M.   Prohibit parking during snow removal operations 3 ;
   N.   Impose fines as penalties for use of any parking space reserved for
physically handicapped persons or disabled veterans by any person using a motor
vehicle not bearing registration plates specified in 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-1301.1 or such devices as may be deemed proper as evidence that
the vehicle is operated by or for a handicapped person or disabled veteran 4 ;
   O.   Adopt such other traffic regulations as are specifically authorized by
law.
No ordinance or regulation enacted under subsection A, D, E, F, G, I or J of
this section shall be effective until signs giving notice of such local traffic
regulations are posted upon or at the entrances to the highway or part thereof
affected as may be most appropriate. (1976 Code §19-6)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 1-6E-2 of this code.
2 2. See also section
  6-4-14 of this title and title 7, chapter 3 of this code.
3 1. See also subsection
  6-5-4C of this title.
4 2. See section
  6-5-7 of this title.
6-2-5-1: AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
The chief of police by and with the approval of the director of public works is
hereby empowered to make regulations necessary to make effective the provisions
of this title and to make and enforce temporary or experimental regulations to
cover emergencies or special conditions. No such temporary or experimental
regulation shall remain in effect for more than ninety (90) days. (1976 Code
§19-11; amd. Ord. 2011-21, 5-12-2011)
6-2-6: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic. (1976 Code §19-8)
6-2-7: TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Obstructing Traffic Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
wilfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay, or to wilfully and
unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder, or obstruct any other person in
lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any highway, or to offer for barter
or sale merchandise on said highway so as to interfere with the effective
movement of traffic. (Ord. 2001-14, 4-26-2001)
   B.   Toys In Streets: No person shall place or permit to be placed any
tricycle, wagon or other toy of any kind upon any street or highway of the
village. (1976 Code §19-18)
   C.   Deposit Of Dangerous Articles On Streets: No person shall throw or
deposit upon any highway any glass bottles, nails, tacks, wires, cans or any
other substance likely to injure any person, animal or vehicle upon such
highway.
Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any highway any
destructive, dangerous, hazardous or injurious material shall immediately
remove the same or cause it to be removed.
This subsection C shall not apply to implements of husbandry designed and
adapted exclusively for agricultural, horticultural or livestock raising
operations that may inadvertently deposit dirt or other substances upon the
highway.
   D.   Glass From Damaged Or Wrecked Vehicles: Any person removing a wrecked
or damaged vehicle from a highway shall remove any glass or other injurious
substance dropped upon the highway from such vehicle. (1976 Code §19-19)
6-2-8: ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Duty Of Driver Involved In Accident:
      1.   Accidents Involving Death Or Personal Injuries: The driver of any
vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or death of any person
shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close
thereto as possible, and shall then forthwith return to, and in every event
shall remain at the scene of an accident until he has fulfilled the
requirements of subsection A3 of this section. Every such stop shall be made
without obstructing traffic more than is necessary. (1976 Code §19-183)
      2.   Accidents Involving Damage To Vehicle: The driver of any vehicle
involved in an accident resulting only in damage to a vehicle which is driven
or attended by any person shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of
such accident, or as close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to
and in every event shall remain at the scene of such accident until he has
fulfilled the requirements of subsection A3 hereof. Every such stop shall be
made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary. (1976 Code §19-184)
      3.   Give Information and Render Aid: The driver of any vehicle involved
in an accident resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any
vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall give his name, address
and the registration number of the vehicle he is driving and shall upon request
and if available exhibit his driver's license to the person struck or the
driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with and shall
render to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including
the carrying or the making of arrangements for the carrying of such person to a
physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is
apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by
the injured person.
If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this subsection A3
is in condition to receive and understand such information and no police
officer is present, such driver after rendering reasonable assistance shall
forthwith report such accident at the nearest office of a duly authorized
police authority, disclosing the information required by this subsection A3.
(1976 Code §19-185)
      4.   Damaging Unattended Vehicle or Other Property: The driver of any
vehicle which collides with or is involved in an accident with any vehicle
which is unattended, or other property, resulting in any damage to such other
vehicle or property shall immediately stop and shall then and there either
locate and notify the operator or owner of such vehicle or other property of
his name, address and the registration number of the vehicle he is driving or
shall attach securely in a conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other
property struck a written notice giving his name, address and the registration
number of the vehicle he is driving and shall without unnecessary delay notify
the nearest office of a duly authorized police authority and shall make a
report of such accident when and as required in subsection B of this Section.
Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. (1976 Code §19-186)
   B.   Accident Reports:
      1.   Reports Required:
         a.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident within this Village resulting in injury to or death of any person or
in which damage to the property of any one person, including himself, in excess
of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) is sustained shall, as soon as possible
but not later than ten (10) days after such accident, forward a written report
of such accident to the Police Department.
The Police Department may require any driver, occupant or owner of a vehicle
involved in an accident of which report must be made as provided in this
subsection B1a to file supplemental reports whenever the original report is
insufficient in the opinion of the Police Department and may require witnesses
of the accident to submit reports to the Police Department.
Should the Police Department learn through other reports of accidents required
by law of the occurrence of an accident reportable under this Section and the
driver, owner or witness has not reported as provided under subsection B1a
within the time specified, such person is not relieved of the responsibility
and the Chief of Police or his designee shall notify such person by first class
mail to his last known address of his legal obligation. However, such
notification is not a condition precedent to impose the penalty for failure to
report. (1976 Code §19-188)
         b.   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of
making a required accident report and if there was another occupant in the
vehicle at the time of the accident capable of making a report, such occupant
shall make or cause to be made such report. If said driver fails for any reason
to make such report, the owner of the vehicle involved in such accident shall,
as soon as he learns of the accident, make said report to the Police
Department. (1976 Code §19-189)
      2.   Accident Reports Confidential: All required accident reports and
supplemental reports shall be without prejudice to the individual so reporting
and shall be for the confidential use of the Police Department; except, that
the Police Department may disclose the identity of a person involved in an
accident when such identity is not otherwise known or when such person denies
his presence at such accident. No such report shall be used as evidence in any
trial, civil or criminal, arising out of an accident; except, that the Police
Department shall furnish upon demand of any person who has or claims to have
made such a report or upon demand of any court a certificate showing that a
specified accident report has or has not been made to the Police Department
solely to prove a compliance or a failure to comply with the requirement that
such a report be made to the Police Department. (1976 Code §19-190)
      3.   Copies of Reports for State: The Police Department may furnish to
the Secretary of State copies of required accident reports or information taken
from such reports. All such copies of reports or information taken from them
shall be for the confidential use of the secretary of state. (1976 Code §19-
191)
   C.   Record Of Accidents: The police department shall keep a record of all
accidents, the names of parties to and the witnesses to such accidents and
their statements in reference thereto. (1976 Code §19-187)
6-2-9: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS 1 :
   A.   Violations Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this title. (1976 Code §19-3)
   B.   Violation Of Regulations Imposed By Traffic Control Agreements: It
shall be unlawful for any person to violate any regulation imposed pursuant to
the provisions of a traffic control agreement entered into pursuant to 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209 or 5/11-209.1, as amended.
Any person charged with a violation of this subsection may, in lieu of
prosecution for a violation thereof, make payment in accordance with section
1-4-2 of this code. (1976 Code §19-23)
   C.   Bail: Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this
title shall be released upon proper bail being furnished as required by statute
2 . (1976 Code §19-4)
   D.   Traffic Tickets: For all offenses herein, police officers may issue a
traffic violation complaint/citation notifying the offender to appear in court
at the time designated for hearing such case. Officers may sign a complaint for
the issuance of a warrant if the offender does not appear at the time and place
so specified. (1976 Code §19-5)
   E.   Settlement Of Certain Violations:
      1.   Any person charged with a violation of the following provisions of
this title may, in lieu of prosecution for a violation thereof, make payment in
accordance with section
1-4-2 of this code: (1976 Code §19-95)
Chapter 4
6-4-4A, B
Chapter 5
6-5-2B,
6-5-4C,
6-5-7D,
6-5-9
Chapter 8
6-8-2A2 through A4, B, D,
6-8-3-1,
6-8-3-3,
6-8-3-4,
6-8-3-5,
6-8-3-7,
6-8-3-8,
6-8-3-9,
6-8-4,
6-8-5,
6-8-6,
6-8-7,
6-8-8,
6-8-9
Chapter 8A
6-8A-7B
Chapter 9
6-9-1 through
6-9-3
(1991 Code; amd. Ord. 2005-35, 5-19-2005)
      2.   Any person violating chapter 5 of this title may, in lieu of
prosecution for violation thereof, make payment in accordance with section
1-4-2 of this code if provision is made in said section for such payment. (1976
Code §19-119)
   F.   Fines In Traffic Cases:
      1.   General Violations: A violation of any provision of this chapter,
unless otherwise specified, or a violation of any offenses classified as
"petty" offenses under the provisions of the Illinois vehicle code, except
those where a minimum fine is otherwise specified by the statute, shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. This fine amount
shall expressly be exclusive of court costs and fees that may be imposed in
addition to the fine amount.
      2.   Certain Speeding Violations:
         a.   All violations for driving a vehicle at a speed which is twenty
one (21) to thirty (30) miles per hour greater than the applicable statutory
maximum speed limit shall be punishable by a minimum fine amount of ninety five
dollars ($95.00) for each offense. This fine amount shall expressly be
exclusive of any court costs and fees that may be imposed in addition to the
fine amount.
         b.   All violations for driving a vehicle at a speed which is thirty
one (31) miles per hour or greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed
limit shall be punishable by a minimum fine amount of one hundred five dollars
($105.00) for each offense. This fine amount shall expressly be exclusive of
any court costs and fees that may be imposed in addition to the fine amount.
(Ord. 2006-42, 7-20-2006)
   G.   Driver's License Suspension: The village may cause a suspension of a
person's driver's license pursuant to section 6-306.5(f) of the Illinois
vehicle code, as amended, of any person who fails to satisfy any fine or
penalty imposed by final judgment for ten (10) or more violations of village
standing, parking, or compliance regulations as set forth in this code.
When notice is required to be sent pursuant to section 6-306.5(f)(2) of the
Illinois vehicle code, as amended, it shall be sent to the person liable for
any fine or penalty and shall state that failure to pay the fine or penalty
owing within forty five (45) days of the notice's date will result in the
village notifying the secretary of state that the person's driver's license is
eligible for suspension pursuant to section 6-306.5 of the Illinois vehicle
code, as amended.
The notice provided for above shall be sent by first class United States mail,
postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the secretary of state or at the
last address known to the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of lease.
(Ord. 2012-37, 6-28-2012)
Each notice set forth above shall also provide that, within fifteen (15) days
after the date of mailing such notice, the recipient(s) may challenge the
accuracy of such notice. The grounds to challenge the notice are limited to:
      1.   The recipient not having been the owner or lessee of the vehicle or
vehicles receiving ten (10) or more village standing, parking or compliance
violation notices on the date or dates such violation notices were issued; or
      2.   The recipient having already paid the fine or penalty for the ten
(10) or more standing, parking or compliance violations.
Any recipient wishing to challenge the accuracy of such notice shall, within
said fifteen (15) day period, send a written challenge to the village's chief
of police containing:
      1.   A copy of the notice received; and
      2.   Written evidence supporting either of the grounds to challenge set
forth above.
Within ten (10) days after receipt of a complete written challenge, the chief
of police, or his designee, shall review the challenge and determine whether
said challenge is valid. Within said ten (10) day period, the chief of police,
or his designee shall send a written determination to the person making a
challenge. (Ord. 2012-44, 8-23-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections
  6-5-11 and 6-8A-8 of this title.
2 2. 725 ILCS 5/110-4.
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND DEVICES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Obedience to Traffic-Control Devices
6-3-2: Compliance with State Specifications
6-3-3: Traffic-Control Signal Legend
6-3-4: Pedestrian-Control Signals
6-3-5: Flashing Signals
6-3-6: Unauthorized Signs, Signals and Markings
6-3-7: Interference with Signs or Signals
6-3-8: Devices on Certain Highways Prohibited
6-3-9: Testing Traffic-Control Devices
6-3-1: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Every person shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with this Title, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this Title.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
   C.   No provision of this Title for which official traffic-control devices
are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and
place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that official traffic-control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place. (1976 Code §19-34)
6-3-2: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE SPECIFICATIONS:
All traffic-control devices shall conform to the requirements of the State
manual and specifications relating thereto. (1976 Code §19-35)
6-3-3: TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting different
colored lights successively one at a time, or with lighted green arrows, only
the following colors shall be used and such terms and lights and lighted green
arrows shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as
follows:
   A.   Circular Green (Alone):
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn, but
vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk unless directed otherwise by a pedestrian
signal as provided under Section
6-3-4 of this Chapter.
   B.   Steady Yellow:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic may not enter
the intersection.
      2.   Pedestrians facing a steady yellow signal, unless otherwise directed
by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in Section
6-3-4 of this Chapter, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to
cross the roadway and no pedestrian shall start to cross.
   C.   Steady Red Indication:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal alone must stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of an intersection, or if none, then before entering the intersection
and shall remain standing until an indication to proceed is shown except as
provided in subsections C2 and E1 of this Section.
      2.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal at an intersection may
turn right after stopping as required by subsection C1 above, but shall yield
the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to
other traffic lawfully using the intersection. However, at any such
intersection where a sign is erected prohibiting any such turn, no such turn is
permitted.
      3.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless a
separate "Walk" indication is shown.
   D.   Green Straight-Through Arrow (Alone):
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through,
but shall not turn right or left. Such vehicular traffic shall yield the right
of way to other vehicles and to pedestrians legally within the intersection at
the time such signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
the appropriate marked or unmarked crosswalk unless directed otherwise by a
pedestrian signal as provided in Section
6-3-4 of this Chapter.
   E.   Green Turn Arrow (With Circular Green, with Steady Yellow, with Steady
Red or with Green Straight-Through Arrow):
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall comply with the meaning of
the circular green, steady yellow, steady red or green straight through arrow
indication as if it were shown alone; except, that such vehicular traffic may
cautiously enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the green
turn arrow. Vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to pedestrians
lawfully within a crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
      2.   Pedestrians facing such signal shall comply with the meaning of the
circular green, steady yellow, steady red or straight through arrow indication
as if it were shown alone, unless directed otherwise by a pedestrian signal as
provided in section
6-3-4 of this chapter.
   F.   Signals Not At Intersections: In the event an official traffic control
signal or flashing red signal is erected and maintained at a place other than
an intersection, the provisions of this section and section
6-3-5 of this chapter shall be applicable except as to provisions which by
their nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic
sign or a marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made.
(1976 Code §19-40)
6-3-4: PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS:
Whenever a special pedestrian control signal exhibiting the words "Walk" or
"Don't Walk" or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows:
   A.   Walk Or Walking Person Symbol: While the "walk" or "walking person"
indication is illuminated, pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across
the roadway in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way
by the drivers of all vehicles.
   B.   Don't Walk Or Upraised Palm Symbol: While the "don't walk" or "upraised
palm" symbol indication is illuminated, either steady or flashing, no
pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction of the signal, but
any pedestrian who has partly completed his crossing during the "walk" or
"walking person" symbol indication shall proceed to a sidewalk or to a safety
island if one is provided. (1976 Code §19-41)
6-3-5: FLASHING SIGNALS:
Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in conjunction
with a traffic control device, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic
as follows:
   A.   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   B.   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   C.   Application To Railroad Crossings: This section does not apply at
railroad grade crossings. (1976 Code §19-42)
6-3-6: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS 1 :
No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any street any
unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, nor shall any
person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any street any other sign
which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of any traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal.
No person may place or maintain nor may the village permit upon any street any
traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is a public nuisance and the
village is empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without
notice. (1976 Code §19-38)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  9-11-4B of this code.
6-3-7: INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS 1 :
No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon or any
part thereof. (1976 Code §19-39)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection
  9-11-4B of this code.
6-3-8: DEVICES ON CERTAIN HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED:
The village shall not place or maintain any traffic control device upon any
highway under the jurisdiction of the Illinois department of transportation,
the counties of DuPage and/or Will, Lisle Township or Downers Grove Township,
except by permission from any such agency having jurisdiction over such
highway. (1976 Code §19-36; amd. 1991 Code)
6-3-9: TESTING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The director of public works may test traffic control devices under actual
conditions of traffic. (1976 Code §19-37; amd. Ord. 2011-21, 5-12-2011)
CHAPTER 4
RULES OF THE ROAD
SECTION:
6-4-1: Licensed Drivers
6-4-2: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-4-3: Turning Movements
6-4-4: Driver's Signals
6-4-5: Right of Way
6-4-6: Through Streets; Stop and Yield Intersections
6-4-7: Speed Restrictions
6-4-8: Duty to Keep to the Right
6-4-9: Restrictions on Driving
6-4-10: Meeting, Passing Vehicles
6-4-11: Driving on Roadways Laned for Traffic
6-4-12: One-Way Roadways and Rotary Traffic Islands
6-4-13: Following Too Closely
6-4-14: Funeral Processions
6-4-15: School Buses
6-4-16: Careless, Dangerous Driving
6-4-17: Prohibited Acts and Conditions
6-4-18: Riding on Motorcycles and Motorized Pedalcycles
6-4-1: LICENSED DRIVERS:
No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle who is not licensed or
entitled to do so under the laws of this State. 1  (1976 Code §19-54)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 625 ILCS 5/6-101 et seq.
6-4-2: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Operation of Authorized Emergency Vehicles: The driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or when in the pursuit
of an actual or suspected violator of the law or when responding to but not
upon returning from a fire alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this
subsection, but subject to the conditions herein stated.
The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this Title.
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation.
      3.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger life
or property.
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle, other than a
police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of either
audible signal when in motion or visual signals meeting the requirements of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-215.
The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor do such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of his reckless
disregard for the safety of others. (1976 Code §19-9)
   B.   Operation of Vehicles on Approach of Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of law or a police vehicle
properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual signal, the driver of
every other vehicle on the same roadway shall yield the right of way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the
right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection and shall stop
if possible and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle
has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
This subsection shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway. (1976 Code §19-85)
   C.   Fire Protection District Vehicles; Fires:
      1.   Following Fire Apparatus; Vehicles Near Fires: The driver of any
vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow any fire apparatus
traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or
drive into or park or stand such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus
is stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (1976 Code §19-12)
      2.   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of a fire protection district when laid down on any street or private road
or driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of fire without the consent of the
fire protection district or the fire protection district official in command.
(1976 Code §19-86; 1991 Code)
6-4-3: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Required Position and Method of Turning at Intersections: The driver of
a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as follows:
      1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      3.   The Board of Trustees in its jurisdiction may cause official
traffic-control devices to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and
thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in this
subsection be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when such
devices are so placed no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection other than as directed and required by such devices. (1976 Code
§19-78)
   B.   Left Turns:
      1.   Right of Way When Turning Left: The driver of a vehicle intending to
turn to the left within an intersection or into an alley, private road or
driveway shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard, but
said driver, having so yielded, may proceed at such time as a safe interval
occurs. (1976 Code §19-60)
      2.   Left Turns Prohibited: The driver of a vehicle shall not make a left
turn at the intersections designed by the Village authorities as being
intersections when left turns are prohibited. (1976 Code §19-81)
   C.   Turning on Curve or Crest of Grade Prohibited: No vehicle shall be
turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any curve, or upon the
approach to or near the crest of a grade, where such vehicle cannot be seen by
the driver of any other vehicle approaching from either direction within five
hundred feet (500'). (1976 Code §19-79)
   D.   U-Turns:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to
proceed in the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety
and without interfering with other traffic.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to make a U-
turn at any place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance. 1  (1976 Code
§19-80)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  6-6-7 of this Title.
6-4-4: DRIVER'S SIGNALS:
   A.   Signalling Required: No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection
unless the vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway as required by law or
turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway or otherwise turn a vehicle
from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and until such
movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person may so turn any vehicle
without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      1.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required must be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning within a business or residence district,
and such signal must be given continuously during not less than the last two
hundred feet (200') traveled by the vehicle before turning outside a business
or residence district.
      2.   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this Title
to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity
to give such a signal.
      3.   The electric turn signal device required by law must be used to
indicate an intention to turn, change lanes or start from a parallel parked
position but must not be flashed on one side only on a parked or disabled
vehicle or flashed as a courtesy or "do pass" signal to operators of other
vehicles approaching from the rear. However, such signal devices may be flashed
simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle to indicate the presence of a
vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, overtaking and
passing. (1976 Code §19-65)
   B.   Method of Giving Signals: Any stop or turn signal when required herein
shall be given either by means of the hand and arm or by an electric turn
signal device. (1976 Code §19-66)
All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall indicate as
follows:
      1.   Left Turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
      2.   Right Turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
      3.   Stop or Decrease of Speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (1976
Code §19-68)
6-4-5: RIGHT OF WAY:
When two (2) vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different roadways
at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left must
yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
The right-of-way rule declared in this Section is modified at through highways
and otherwise as stated in this Title. (1976 Code §19-59)
6-4-6: THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Through Streets: The streets and highways listed in Section
6-6-4 of this Title are hereby declared to be "through highways" as defined
herein, and subject to the rules pertaining to such through highways, and stop
or yield right-of-way signs shall be maintained at all intersections along said
highways.
Every such sign shall bear the word "stop" or "yield" in letters not less than
six inches (6") in height, except at intersections where flashing light signals
are used, in which case the letters shall not be less than four inches (4") in
height. Every stop or yield sign shall be located as near as practicable at the
property line of the highway at the entrance to which the stop or yield right
of way must be made, or at the nearest line of the crosswalk thereat, or, if
none, at the nearest line of the roadway at the right side of the highway as
driver approaches.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop such vehicle at the stop sign or at a
clearly marked stop line before entering an intersection except when directed
to proceed by a police officer. (1976 Code §19-69)
   B.   Stop or Yield Intersections: 1  Preferential right of way at an
intersection may be indicated by stop or yield signs as authorized by law.
      1.   Operation of Vehicle on Approach to a Stop Intersection: Except when
directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control signal, every driver
of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped,
the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another roadway or which is approaching so closely on the
roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time when the driver is
moving across or within the intersection, but said driver having so yielded may
proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs.
      2.   Yield Intersections:
         a.   Operation of Vehicle on Approach to a Yield Intersection: The
driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience to such sign,
slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if required
for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or stopping,
the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle in the intersection or
approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time such driver is moving across or within the intersection.
         b.   Collisions at Yield Intersections: If a driver is involved in a
collision at an intersection or interferes with the movement of other vehicles
after driving past a yield right-of-way sign, such collision or interference
shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the driver's failure to yield right of
way. (1976 Code §19-62)
 
Notes
  1. See Sections
1 6-6-5 and
  6-6-6 of this Title for traffic schedules.
6-4-7: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   General Speed Restrictions: No person shall drive any vehicle upon any
public street or highway within the Village at a speed which:
      1.   Is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or endangers the safety of any person or
property; or
      2.   Is greater than the applicable maximum speed limit established by
this Section. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway or when special hazard exists with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic by reason of weather or highway conditions; and
speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person
or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and
the duty of all persons to use due care.
   B.   Maximum Speed Limits:
      1.   Statutory Maximum Speed Limits: The maximum speed limit on all
streets within the corporate limits of the Village for which the Village is
authorized by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-604, as amended, to establish
maximum speed limits and for which the Village has not previously established
maximum speed limits shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour, except where
otherwise posted as indicated in Section
6-6-1 of this Title and for the purposes of this subsection. (1976 Code §19-
102)
Public notice of the maximum speed limits established hereby shall be indicated
by the erection of appropriate signs on all streets entering the Village and at
the appropriate location of all streets intersecting with those identified in
Section
6-6-1 of this Title for the purposes of this subsection. (1976 Code §19-102;
1991 Code)
      2.   Altered Maximum Speed Limits: As authorized by law, it is hereby
determined upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that the
reasonable and safe maximum speed limits on certain designated streets or
highways or portions of streets or highways within the Village should be and
are hereby established as provided in Section
6-6-1 of this Title for the purpose of this subsection. (1976 Code §19-103)
   C.   Duty to Decrease Speed to Avoid Danger: The fact that the speed of a
vehicle is lower than the foregoing prima facie limits shall not relieve the
driver from the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection, when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a
hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway or when special
hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of
weather or highway conditions. Speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to
avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or entering the highway in
compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
(1976 Code §19-104)
   D.   Minimum Speed: No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic
except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with
law. Police officers are hereby authorized to enforce this provision by
directions to drivers and in the event of apparent wilful disobedience to this
provision and refusal to comply with the direction of an officer in accordance
herewith, the continued slow operation by a driver shall be a violation. (1976
Code §19-105)
   E.   Speeds At Specific Locations: Notwithstanding the provisions of this
section, it shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the limits
prescribed by section
6-6-1 of this title. (1976 Code §19-106)
   F.   Violations; Effect On Civil Action:
      1.   In every charge of violation of an applicable speed limit, the
complaint and also the summons or notice to appear shall specify the speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven and the speed limit which is
applicable at the place of the alleged violation.
      2.   The provisions of this chapter concerning maximum speed limits do
not relieve the plaintiff in any civil action from the burden of proving
negligence on the part of the defendant as a proximate cause of an accident.
(1976 Code §19-107)
6-4-8: DUTY TO KEEP TO THE RIGHT:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be upon the
right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movements.
      2.   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon.
      4.   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic.
      5.   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two (2) vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is
the wider shoulder shall give the right of way on such pavement to the other
vehicle.
   B.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   C.   Upon any roadway having four (4) or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use such
lanes, or except as permitted under subsection A2 of this section. However,
this subsection shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the
centerline in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road or
driveway. (1976 Code §19-71)
6-4-9: RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING:
   A.   Emerging From Driveway, Alley, Building, Etc.: The driver of a vehicle
emerging from an alley, building, private road or driveway shall stop such
vehicle immediately prior to driving into the sidewalk area extending across
such alley, building entrance, road or driveway, or in the event there is no
sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to be entered where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon and shall yield the right
of way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision and, upon
entering the roadway, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching
on said roadway. (1976 Code §19-64; amd. 1991 Code)
   B.   Limitation On Backing: The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same
unless such movement can be made in safety and without interfering with other
traffic. (1976 Code §19-89)
   C.   Driving On Sidewalk Or Bike Path: No person shall drive any vehicle
upon a sidewalk area or bike path except upon a permanent or duly authorized
temporary driveway. (Ord. 2004-30, 5-20-2004)
   D.   Driving Through Safety Zone: No vehicle shall at any time be driven
through or within a safety zone. (1976 Code §19-90)
   E.   Coasting:
      1.   The driver of any motor vehicle traveling upon a downgrade shall not
coast with the gears or transmission of such vehicle in neutral.
      2.   The driver of a motor vehicle of the second division when traveling
upon a downgrade shall not coast with the clutch disengaged. (1976 Code §19-93)
   F.   Starting Parked Vehicle: No person shall start a vehicle which is
stopped, standing or parked unless and until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety. (1976 Code §19-84)
   G.   Opening Vehicle Doors: No person shall open the door of a vehicle on
the side available to moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to
do so and can be done without interfering with the movement of other traffic,
nor shall any person leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to
moving traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers. (1976 Code §19-13)
6-4-10: MEETING, PASSING VEHICLES:
   A.   Meeting Vehicles Proceeding in Opposite Directions: Drivers of vehicles
proceeding in opposite directions, except as provided in Section
6-4-5 of this Chapter, shall pass each other to the right, and upon roadways
having width for not more than one line of traffic in each direction, each
driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2) of the main-traveled
portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (1976 Code §19-72)
   B.   Overtaking Vehicles Generally: The following rules govern the
overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to
those limitations, exceptions and special rules otherwise stated in this
Chapter:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main-traveled portion of the roadway.
      2.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
      3.   The driver of a two (2) wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the
left of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of
any vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed
lane of traffic available to permit such passing maneuver safely. (1976 Code
§19-73)
   C.   Limitations on Overtaking on the Left:
      1.   No vehicles shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this Title and unless such
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for
vehicles approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within two
hundred feet (200') of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction.
      2.   No vehicle may, in overtaking and passing another vehicle, be driven
to the left side of the roadway under the following conditions:
         a.   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction.
         b.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing.
         c.   The limitations in paragraphs a and b above do not apply upon a
one-way roadway nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient
width for two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction nor to the
driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road or
driveway when such movements can be made with safety. (1976 Code §19-75)
   D.   Overtaking Vehicles on the Right:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle with three (3) or more wheels may overtake
and pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         a.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn.
         b.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied
by parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction.
         c.   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
      3.   The driver of a two (2) wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right
of any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed
pavement to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less
than eight feet (8'). (1976 Code §19-74)
   E.   No-Passing Zones:
      1.   The Board of Trustees is authorized to determine those portions of
any street under its jurisdiction where overtaking and passing or driving to
the left of the roadway would be especially hazardous and may by appropriate
signs or markings on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of such zones,
and when such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an
ordinarily observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the
directions thereof.
      2.   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone, as
set forth in subsection A above, no driver may, at any time, drive on the left
side of the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any
pavement striping designed to mark such no-passing zone throughout its length
except as otherwise indicated in this subsection.
      3.   The pavement striping designed to mark the no-passing zone may be
crossed:
         a.   From the left-hand lane for the purpose of completing a pass that
was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the driver's direction of
travel;
         b.   From the right-hand lane when making a left turn into or from an
alley, private road or driveway when such movement can be made with safety; or
         c.   Under conditions set forth in subsection
6-4-8A2 of this Chapter. (1976 Code §19-76)
6-4-11: DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent
herewith, shall apply:
   A.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   B.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes and which provides
for two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance or
in preparation for making a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices.
   C.   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
   D.   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device. (1976 Code §19-70)
6-4-12: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS:
   A.   The Board of Trustees, with respect to streets under its jurisdiction,
may designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway or specific lanes upon
which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all or such times as
shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   B.   Upon a roadway so designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   C.   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only to
the right of such island.
   D.   Whenever any street has been divided into two (2) or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across or within any such dividing space, barrier
or section, except through an opening in the physical barrier or dividing
section or space or at a crossover or intersection as established by public
authority. (1976 Code §19-82)
6-4-13: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
   A.   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the street.
   B.   The driver of a motor vehicle of the second division or motor vehicle
drawing another vehicle when traveling upon a roadway outside of a business or
residence district shall not follow within three hundred feet (300') of another
motor vehicle of the second division or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle.
The provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to prevent overtaking
and passing nor shall the same apply upon any lane specially designated for use
by motor vehicles of the second division.
   C.   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade whether or not towing other
vehicles shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to funeral
processions. 1  (1976 Code §19-83)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  6-4-14 of this Chapter.
6-4-14: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Right of Way: Funeral processions have the right of way at
intersections when vehicles comprising such procession have their headlights
lighted, subject to the following conditions and exceptions:
      1.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right
of way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an audible
or visible signal.
      2.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right
of way when directed to do so by a traffic officer.
      3.   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with the stop signs and traffic-control signals, but when the leading
vehicle has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with such signal or
after stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in such procession
may proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   B.   Vehicles Not in Funeral Procession:
      1.   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to do so by
a traffic officer or when such vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle
giving audible or visible signal.
      2.   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not
form a procession or convoy and have their headlights lighted for the purpose
of securing the right of way granted by this Section to funeral processions.
      3.   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake
and pass the vehicles in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   C.   Identification: The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be
equipped with a flashing amber light which may be used only when such vehicle
is used as a lead vehicle in such procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral
procession may utilize funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers to
identify the individual vehicles in such a procession. (1991 Code)
6-4-15: SCHOOL BUSES:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle shall stop such vehicle before meeting or
overtaking from either direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of
receiving or discharging pupils on a highway or upon a private road within an
area that is covered by a contract or agreement executed pursuant to 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209.1. Such stop is required before reaching
the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus the visual signals
as specified in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-803 and 5/12-805. The
driver of the vehicle shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or
the driver of the vehicle is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or
the visual signals are no longer actuated.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway having four (4) or more lanes
which permits at least two (2) lanes of traffic to travel in opposite
directions need not stop such vehicle upon meeting a school bus which is
stopped in the opposing roadway and need not stop such vehicle when driving
upon a controlled access highway when passing a school bus traveling in either
direction that is stopped in a loading zone adjacent to the surface or improved
part of the controlled access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to
cross.
   C.   When a school bus is being operated upon a highway for purposes other
than the actual transportation of children either to or from school or in
connection with any school activity, all signs thereon indicating SCHOOL BUS
shall be covered or concealed. (1976 Code §19-77)
6-4-16: CARELESS, DANGEROUS DRIVING:
   A.   Reckless Driving: Any person who drives any vehicle with a wilful,
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless
driving. (1976 Code §19-56)
   B.   Careless Driving: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any
motor vehicle within the Village in such a manner as to cause or produce loud
noise in any of the following manners:
      1.   By racing the motor while the motor vehicle is in a standing
position;
      2.   By spinning the wheels or wheel on pavement as a result of motor
acceleration; or
      3.   By repeated sounding of a horn or other audio signal device. (1976
Code §19-57)
   C.   Drag Racing: It shall be unlawful for an operator of any motor vehicle
to commit the offense of drag racing.
"Drag racing" means the act of two (2) or more individuals competing or racing
on any street or highway in this Village in a situation in which one of the
motor vehicles is beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a
competing driver and the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver
from passing or overtaking him, either by acceleration or maneuver, or one or
more individuals competing in a race against time on any street or highway in
this Village. (1976 Code §19-58)
6-4-17: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS 1 :
   A.   Unlawful Riding on Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to
ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designated or intended for the
use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion. This provision shall not apply
to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to persons
riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (1976 Code §19-
14)
   B.   Using Vehicles for Advertising: It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate or to park on any street any vehicle for the primary purpose of
displaying advertising.
Any person charged with a violation of this subsection may, in lieu of
prosecution for a violation thereof, make payment in accordance with Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (1976 Code §19-16)
   C.   Clinging to Moving Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person
traveling upon any bicycle, coaster, sled, roller skates or toy vehicle to
cling to or attach himself or his vehicle to any moving vehicle upon any
roadway, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of any such motor vehicle to
knowingly permit the rider upon any such bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled,
roller skates or any toy vehicle, to cling to or attach himself to such moving
vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person traveling on foot to attach
himself to any moving vehicle and slide or attempt to slide on pavement, an act
commonly called "skeetching". (1976 Code §19-17)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  3-3-20C of this Code, open bottle law - liquor in vehicle.
6-4-18: RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLES:
   A.   Motorcycles: The operator of a motorcycle shall ride only astride the
permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto and the operator shall
not permit more than one other person to ride thereon, nor shall such other
person ride on the motorcycle, unless it is designed to carry two (2) people;
in which event, the passenger shall also ride astride the permanent and regular
seat or saddle if it is designated for two (2) persons or astride another seat
or saddle firmly attached to the rear of the operator; however, any seat or
saddle designed for a passenger must be equipped with permanent handgrips and,
in addition, the motorcycle must be equipped with footrests adjusted to fit
such passenger. A sidecar may be attached to a motorcycle in which additional
persons may ride.
   B.   Motorized Pedalcycles: The operator of a motorized pedalcycle shall
ride only astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto and shall not
permit two (2) persons to ride thereon at the same time unless the motorized
pedalcycle is designed for two (2) persons and equipped with a passenger seat
and permanent handgrips and footrests for the use of a passenger. (1976 Code
§19-15)
CHAPTER 5
PARKING REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
6-5-1: No Parking Places
6-5-2: Manner Of Parking
6-5-3: Duties When Parking Vehicle
6-5-4: General Parking Restrictions
6-5-5: Time Limit Parking
6-5-6: Passenger And Loading Areas
6-5-6-1: Taxicab Stands And Bus Stops
6-5-7: Parking For Disabled, Handicapped Persons
6-5-8: Parking On Private Property
6-5-9: Storage Of Unlicensed Vehicles
6-5-10: Animals To Be Hitched
6-5-11: Removal Of Unlawfully Parked Vehicles
6-5-12: Parking In Residential Districts
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 6 of this title.
6-5-1: NO PARKING PLACES:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places: (1976 Code
§19-120)
   A.   On a sidewalk, parkway or bike path. (Ord. 2004-30, 5-20-2004)
   B.   In front of a public or private driveway.
   C.   Within an intersection.
   D.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a lateral line extending from a fire
hydrant to the curb.
   E.   On a crosswalk.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
   G.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign or traffic control signal located at the side of the roadway.
   H.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet (30')
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
mayor and board of trustees, on highways under their jurisdiction, indicate by
ordinance a different length and cause same to be shown by signs or markings.
   I.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station, and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within seventy five
feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted.
   J.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
   K.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
   L.   In or upon any highway within a subway.
   M.   In, upon or along any designated fire lane. (1976 Code §19-120)
   N.   At any place where official signs prohibit or restrict stopping,
standing or parking of any vehicle. (1976 Code §19-120; amd. 1991 Code)
The director of public works, when so directed by the mayor and board of
trustees, shall post such areas with a sign or signs conspicuously located and
indicating that the stopping, standing or parking of any vehicle is so
prohibited or restricted. (1976 Code §19-120; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 2011-21, 5-
12-2011)
No person other than a police officer shall move a vehicle into any such
prohibited area, or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful, or start or
cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle, or shift, change or move
the levers, brake, starting device, gears or other mechanism of a standing
motor vehicle to a position other than that in which it was left by the owner
or driver thereof, or attempt to do so. (1976 Code §19-120)
6-5-2: MANNER OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking: Every vehicle stopped or parked on the streets, every
part of the roadway of which forms a part of the state highway system and on
every other street of the village where there is an adjacent curb, shall be
stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel with and
within twelve inches (12") of the curb or edge of the roadway and headed in the
direction of travel; provided, however, that angle or diagonal parking may be
authorized by the mayor and board of trustees in and upon streets other than
state highways which are under the jurisdiction or control of the state of
Illinois. (1976 Code §19-121)
   B.   Angle Parking: Persons parking where angle parking is permitted shall
so park as to bring the vehicle between consecutive lines or markings on the
pavement.
Such angle parking spaces shall be marked by painting or other method clearly
indicating where vehicles may be so parked. (Ord. 2003-09, 3-27-2003)
6-5-3: DUTIES WHEN PARKING VEHICLE:
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine and removing the ignition key and
when standing upon any perceptible grade, without effectively setting the brake
and turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the street. (1976 Code §19-
122)
6-5-4: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Generally: It shall be unlawful for the owner or driver of any vehicle
to stop, stand or park said vehicle upon any street, other than an alley, in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet
(10') of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic;
except, that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations
or traffic signs or signals or a police officer.
   B.   All Night Parking: It shall be unlawful for the owner or driver of any
vehicle to park said vehicle on any street within the village between the hours
of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. without having first
obtained permission from the police department.
   C.   Snow Removal: It shall be unlawful for vehicles to park on any street
on which there is an accumulation of snow two inches (2") or greater in depth.
   D.   Vehicles For Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon a
street or parkway any vehicle displayed "for sale". (Ord. 93-10, 2-25-1993)
6-5-5: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
The mayor and board of trustees may, from time to time by resolution or
ordinance, designate certain streets and highways or parts thereof in which
parking time shall be limited as in and by such ordinance or resolution may be
specified 1 . Signs, signals or markings shall be erected and maintained in
each block designating such parking places and the time allowed for such
parking therein. (1976 Code §19-128)
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to park such vehicle in
violation of the time limits which may be established pursuant to this section.
(1976 Code §19-129)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-6-11 of this title.
6-5-6: PASSENGER AND LOADING AREAS:
   A.   Passenger And Loading Zones:
      1.   The police department shall supervise the places designated by the
mayor and board of trustees as passenger zones and loading zones 1  to see that
the manner of their use strictly complies with the provisions of this title and
the ordinances and resolutions hereafter adopted.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stop, stand or
park said vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the
expeditious loading or unloading of passengers, or for the unloading and
delivery or picking up and loading of materials in any place marked as a
loading zone. In no case shall the stop for loading and for unloading of
materials exceed thirty (30) minutes. The members of the police department may
direct the manner of taking up or setting down passengers, or loading or
unloading goods in any place. (1976 Code §19-123)
   B.   Backing To Curb: Vehicles used for transportation of merchandise or
materials may back into the curb to take on or discharge loads in such manner
as may be directed by any police officer of the village. (1976 Code §19-132)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-6-14 of this title.
6-5-6-1: TAXICAB STANDS AND BUS STOPS 1 :
   A.   Designation Of Taxicab Stands And Bus Stops: It shall be the duty of
the police department to supervise the use of taxicab stands where the same are
established by the mayor and board of trustees, and to see that those entitled
to their use shall comply with the regulations pertaining to the same. The
location of taxicab stands shall be designated by the village board. (1976 Code
§19-124)
The director of public works shall place appropriate signs indicating every
such taxicab stand and bus stop established. (1976 Code §19-124; amd. Ord.
2011-21, 5-12-2011)
   B.   Use Of Bus Stops And Taxicab Stands Required: It shall be unlawful for
the driver of any bus or taxicab to stand or park such vehicle upon any street
in any business district at any place other than at a bus stop or taxicab
stand; except, that this provision shall not prevent the driver of any such
vehicle from temporarily stopping at any place for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers. (1976 Code §19-126)
   C.   Unlawful Use Of Bus Stops And Taxicab Stands: It shall be unlawful for
the driver of any vehicle other than a bus to stand or park in an officially
designated bus stop or for any vehicle other than a taxicab to stand or park in
an officially designated taxicab stand; except, that the driver of any
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop in such stop or stand for the purpose of
and while engaged in the actual loading or unloading of passengers. (1976 Code
§19-125)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 3, chapter 7 of this code.
6-5-7: PARKING FOR DISABLED, HANDICAPPED PERSONS:
   A.   Parking Privileges: Any motor vehicle having an identification card on
display in its windshield (which identification card declares the possessor
thereof to be a handicapped person and such card has been issued by any local
government unit of the state of Illinois) or a motor vehicle bearing
registration plates issued to a physically handicapped person pursuant to
paragraph 5/3-616 or to a disabled veteran pursuant to paragraph 5/3-609 of the
Illinois vehicle code, effective July 1, 1970, as amended 1 , is exempt from
any statute of the state of Illinois or any ordinance of the village imposing
time limitation on parking on a village street, but is otherwise subject to the
laws which prohibit parking in "no stopping" and "no standing" zones in front
of or near fire hydrants, driveways, public building entrances and exits, bus
stops and loading areas, and is prohibited from parking where the motor vehicle
constitutes a traffic hazard and the motor vehicle must be moved at the
instruction and direction of a police officer to a location designed by such
officer.
   B.   Application Of Provisions: Parking privileges granted by this section
are strictly limited to the person to whom the above mentioned identification
card and/or special registration plates were issued and to qualified operators
acting under his express direction while the disabled person is present.
   C.   Identification Card:
      1.   Application For And Issuance Of Card: The village clerk is
authorized to issue such handicapped identification cards to those persons who
qualify under the laws of the state of Illinois. The village clerk shall
prescribe the form and manner of application which shall be completed by a
person desiring an identification card to be issued under this section and said
application shall be under oath or affirmation.
      2.   Revocation Of Card: Any identification card issued under the
provisions of this section may be revoked for cause or when the applicant no
longer qualifies as a handicapped person and said card shall bear an expiration
date. (1976 Code §19-139)
   D.   Unlawful Use Of Parking Area For The Handicapped: It shall be unlawful
to park any motor vehicle which is not bearing registration plates or decals
issued to a physically handicapped person or to a disabled veteran pursuant to
the Illinois vehicle code, as evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for a
handicapped person or disabled veteran, in any parking place, including any
private or public off street facility specifically reserved, by the posting of
an official sign, for motor vehicles bearing such registration plates or
decals. (1976 Code §19-120)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS.
6-5-8: PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Permission Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon
the land or any part thereof of another with a motor vehicle after receiving,
immediately prior to such entry, notice from the owner or occupant that such
entry is forbidden, or to remain upon the land of another after receiving
notice from the owner or occupant to depart.
   B.   Notice Prohibiting Parking: A person has received notice from the owner
or occupant within the meaning of this section if he has been notified
personally either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice
forbidding such entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to such land or the forbidden part thereof.
   C.   Removal Of Unlawfully Parked Vehicle: The police department is hereby
authorized to have said motor vehicle removed to a place of safety upon
complaint of the owner or occupant in charge of the land that said motor
vehicle has unlawfully entered said land.
   D.   Redemption Of Vehicle: Before the release of said vehicle to the owner,
the owner shall cause to be paid to the village the sum of ten dollars ($10.00)
as the penalty for this offense and shall also pay all charges incurred in the
removal of said vehicle. In accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
2-1.1, violation of this section shall not constitute a misdemeanor. (1976 Code
§19-136)
6-5-9: STORAGE OF UNLICENSED VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful to leave or possess on any lot in the village any trailer,
semitrailer, truck, automobile or major parts thereof, which vehicle or parts
thereof is not licensed by the state of Illinois and the village for the
current year. (1976 Code §19-137)
6-5-10: ANIMALS TO BE HITCHED:
No person shall leave any horse or other animal attached to any carriage,
wagon, cart, sleigh, sled or other vehicle in any part of the streets, avenues,
alleys or lanes of the village without securely fastening such horse, either by
hitching same to a post or by fastening by halter to a weight sufficiently
heavy to secure such horse or other animal. (1976 Code §19-135)
6-5-11: REMOVAL OF UNLAWFULLY PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Authority To Remove Vehicles: Whenever any police officer finds a
vehicle standing upon any street or highway within the village in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, such officer is hereby authorized to
require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same or
to provide for the removal of such vehicle to the nearest garage or other place
of safety by means of towing.
   B.   Towing Costs: All expenses and charges incurred by reason of the towing
of any vehicle under the provisions of this section and all charges for the
storing of any vehicle under the provisions of this section shall be taxed as
costs to the owner of the vehicle or other person legally entitled to
possession thereof and no vehicle, against which there are any unpaid costs or
charges under these provisions, shall be released to the owner or other person
legally entitled to possession thereof until all such charges and costs have
been paid and fully satisfied.
   C.   Provisions Are Additional: The provisions of this section are not to be
construed as being in lieu of any penalty or penalties provided for elsewhere
in this code or in any other ordinances for violation of the provisions of any
ordinance, including this title, but are in addition thereto and are necessary
for the maintenance of the free and unobstructed flow of traffic and for the
direction and control thereof within the village.
   D.   Nonliability Of Village: The village, its agents, employees and
servants shall not be held to answer in any action or damages to any owner or
other person legally entitled to the possession of any vehicle which is dealt
with by them under the provisions of this section. (1976 Code §19-134)
6-5-12: PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Front Yards: Off street parking of a vehicle in residential districts
shall not be located in any front yard; except, that off street parking
accessory to single-family or multiple-family dwellings may be located in any
driveway (except as otherwise provided in this code) improved in accordance
with the standards provided in this code.
   B.   Side And Rear Yards: Off street parking of a vehicle in residential
districts shall not be located in any side or rear yard; except, that off
street parking accessory to single-family or multiple-family dwellings may be
located in an enclosed garage or in any driveway (except as otherwise provided
in this code) improved in accordance with the standards provided in this code.
(Ord. 2009-56, 11-19-2009)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Schedule I - Altered Maximum Speed Limits
6-6-2: Schedule II - School Zones
6-6-3: Schedule III - One-Way Streets And Alleys
6-6-4: Schedule IV - Through Streets
6-6-5: Schedule V - Stop Streets And Intersections
6-6-6: Schedule VI - Yield Intersections
6-6-7: Schedule VII - U-Turns Prohibited
6-6-8: Schedule VIII - Parking Prohibited At All Times
6-6-9: Schedule IX - Parking Prohibited During Certain Hours On Certain Streets
6-6-10: Schedule X - Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited
6-6-11: Schedule XI - Parking Time Limits
6-6-12: Schedule XII - Fire Lanes
6-6-13: Schedule XIII - Vehicle Size, Weight And Load
6-6-14: Schedule XIV - Loading And Unloading Zones
6-6-15: Schedule XV - Turning Movement Prohibitions
6-6-1: SCHEDULE I - ALTERED MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS:
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, the speed limit shall be as set
forth in this schedule upon those streets or portions thereof and at the time
specified herein:
   Name Of Street      Speed Limit At All Times
   (Or Portions Affected)          (Or During Daytime)
   Name Of Street                            Speed Limit At All Times
   (Or Portions Affected)                                (Or During Daytime)
Boughton Road (87th Street) from west village   40 mph      At all times
limit to east village limit
Center Drive                                    30 mph      At all times
Davey Road from Joliet Road east to terminus    35 mph      At all times
Davey Road from Lemont Road west to terminus    25 mph      At all times
Heritage Parkway                                35 mph      At all times
Hobson Road from east village limit to I-355    25 mph      At all times
right of way
Hobson Road from 63rd Street west to village    45 mph      At all times
limit
Internationale Parkway from Joliet Road to      40 mph      At all times
Lemont Road
Janes Avenue from 71st Street to 75th Street    30 mph      At all times
Joliet Road from 107th Street to south village  45 mph      At all times
limit
Lemont Road                                     40 mph      At all times
Route 53 from north village limit to south      45 mph      At all times
village limit
Woodridge Drive from Center Drive to 75th       30 mph      At all times
Street
Woodward Avenue from Boughton Road (87th        40 mph      At all times
Street) to Internationale Parkway
Woodward Avenue from north village limit to     35 mph      At all times
75th Street
Woodward Avenue from 75th Street to 83rd Street 35 mph      At all times
Woodward Avenue from 83rd Street to Boughton    40 mph      At all times
Road (87th Street)
71st Street from Janes Avenue to Woodward       30 mph      At all times
Avenue
75th Street                                     45 mph      At all times
83rd Street from Route 53 to Lemont Road        30 mph      At all times
103rd Street from Lemont Road to Woodward       35 mph      At all times
Avenue
 
(Ord. 2009-39, 8-6-2009)
6-6-2: SCHEDULE II - SCHOOL ZONES:
The following listed streets and portions of streets are hereby designated as
school zones. It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in any such school
zones at a speed in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour when the adjacent
school is in session and students are present.
Street From  To
Street          From                             To
Canterbury Lane 305 feet south of the roadway   Clarendon Lane
                centerline of Edgewood Parkway
Chestnut Avenue 225 feet north of the roadway   Jonquil Lane
                centerline of Evergreen Lane
Clarendon Lane  110 feet west of the roadway    Canterbury Lane
                centerline of Geneva Street
Crabtree Avenue 165 feet east of the roadway    Larchwood Lane
                centerline of Larchwood Lane
Davey Road      570 feet east of the roadway    160 feet east of the roadway
                centerline of Morey Drive        centerline of Murphy Road
Hobson Road     440 feet east of the roadway    90 feet west of the roadway
                centerline of Route 53           centerline of Wainwright Drive
Jackson Drive   105 feet west of the roadway    195 feet west of the roadway
                centerline of Tyler Court        centerline of Jackson Court
Janes Avenue    85 feet south of the roadway    10 feet south of the roadway
                centerline of Crabtree Avenue    centerline of Evergreen Lane
Janes Avenue    390 feet south of the roadway   90 feet north of the roadway
                centerline of Center Drive       centerline of Sioux Avenue
Jonquil Lane    105 feet east of the roadway    Chestnut Avenue
                centerline of Deerfield Avenue
Larchwood Lane  145 feet east of the roadway    Dead end (St. Scholastica)
                centerline of Deerfield Avenue
                680 feet east of the roadway     135 feet east of the roadway
Mitchell Drive  centerline of Patterson Court   centerline of Westmoreland
                                                 Drive
Murphy Road     Davey Road                      20 feet north of the roadway
                                                 centerline of Alexander Drive
Woodridge Drive 60 feet south of the roadway    55 feet north of the roadway
                centerline of Everglade Avenue   centerline of Davos Avenue
83rd Street     90 feet west of the roadway     75 feet east of the roadway
                centerline of Old Fence Court    centerline of Oak Leaf Court
 
(Ord. 2017-9, 3-16-2017)
6-6-3: SCHEDULE III - ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
When properly signposted, traffic shall move only in the direction indicated
upon the following streets or alleys:
 
Name Of Street Or    Direction Of
Designation Of Alley Traffic Movement
None at this time     
 
(1976 Code §19-285)
6-6-4: SCHEDULE IV - THROUGH STREETS:
In accordance with the provisions of subsection
6-4-6A of this title, the following public highways in the village are hereby
designated through streets, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof,
drivers of all vehicles approaching such through streets shall come to a full
stop before crossing or entering such streets:
Through Street From To
Through Street              From                 To
Boughton Road (87th Street) West village limits  East village limits
Center Drive                Woodridge Drive      Janes Avenue
Double Eagle Drive          Hobson Road          Mulligan Drive
Gloucester Road             Rutgers Drive        Heritage Parkway
Greene Road                 Hobson Road          Green Trails Drive (west end)
Havens Drive                Boughton Road        Westminster Drive
Heritage Parkway            Woodward Avenue      Lemont Road
Hillcrest Lane              Woodward Avenue      Gloucester Road
Hobson Road                 West village limits  East village limits
Internationale Parkway      Joliet Road          Lemont Road
Jackson Drive               Tyler Drive          59th Street
Janes Avenue                Lorraine Avenue      83rd Street
Janeswood Drive             Woodridge Drive      Janes Avenue
Lee Street                  Jackson Drive        Hobson Road
Lemont Road                 North village limits South village limits
Mending Wall Drive          83rd Street          South village limits
Mulligan Drive              Route 53             Double Eagle Drive
Peters Drive                Woodward Avenue      Havens Drive
Route 53                    North Village limits South Village limits
Westminster Drive           Woodward Avenue      Heritage Parkway
Westview Lane               75th Street          83rd Street
Woodridge Drive             Route 53             Chelsea Lane
Woodward Avenue             North Village limits Internationale Parkway
63rd Street                 Marshall Drive       Hobson Road
71st Street                 Route 53             East Village limits
75th Street                 West Village limits  East Village limits
83rd Street                 Route 53             Lemont Road
 
(Ord. 2011-27, 6-9-2011)
6-6-5: SCHEDULE V - STOP STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS:
In accordance with the provisions of subsection
6-4-6B of this title, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, drivers
of vehicles shall come to a stop before entering or crossing any of the
following streets, parts of streets or intersections of streets:
   STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street Direction Shall Stop For
Street                     Direction                 Shall Stop For
Alexander Drive            Westbound                 Murphy Road
Argonne Drive              Northbound                103rd Street
Beaudin Boulevard          Northbound                Wallace Way
Carl Court                 Southbound                High Trail
Christopher Drive          Southbound                109th Street
Earl Court                 Westbound                 Beaudin Boulevard
Elinor Avenue              Southbound                59th Street
Everglade Avenue           Westbound                 Jonquil Lane (east)
Gloucester Road            Westbound                 Charing Cross Road
Golf View Drive            Eastbound                 Dunham Road
Hartford Lane              Eastbound                 Middlebury Avenue
Hartford Lane              Westbound                 Harcourt Drive
Hillcrest Lane             Northbound and southbound Westminster Drive
Jonquil Lane (east)        Southbound                Everglade Avenue
Jonquil Lane (west)        Southbound                Everglade Avenue
Katherine's Crossing       Northbound                Davey Road
Keswick Drive              Southeastbound            Talcott Road
Lamond Avenue              Westbound                 Prentice Drive
Laura Lane                 Westbound                 Murphy Road
Marmon Drive               Southbound                Davey Road
Mending Wall Drive                                  83rd Street
Morey Boulevard            Southbound                Davey Road
North Creek Drive          Eastbound and westbound   Adbeth Avenue
North Frontage Road (75th) Eastbound and westbound   Catalpa Avenue
Nottingham Road            Northbound                Harcourt Drive
Oak Bluff Lane             Southbound                Bluff Road
Oakview Lane               Northbound                Everglade Avenue
Old Creek Court            Westbound                 Dunham Road
Paddington Road            Northbound and southbound Harcourt Drive
Patterson Court                                     Mitchell Drive
Plaza Drive, east leg and                           Plaza Drive
west leg
Richfield Court                                     Dunham Road
South Frontage Road (I-55) Southbound                Westgate Road
South Frontage Road (75th) Eastbound                 Woodridge Plaza entrance
South Frontage Road (75th) Eastbound and westbound   Larchwood Lane
South Somerset Lane        Northwestbound            Talcott Road
Talcott Road               Northbound and southbound Tower Hill Drive
Walnut Court East          Westbound                 Walnut Avenue
Walnut Court West          Eastbound                 Walnut Avenue
Westview Lane                                       83rd Street
Whitney Lane               Westbound                 Murphy Road
Williams Drive             Westbound                 Roberts Drive
Woodridge Drive            Northbound                Center Drive
Woodridge Drive            Northbound and southbound 83rd Street
Woodridge Plaza service
drive,                                              Larchwood Lane
on the west side
71st Street                Eastbound                 Woodridge Drive
71st Street                Westbound                 Cambridge Road
107th Street               Eastbound                 Beaudin Boulevard
 
(Ord. 2011-28, 6-9-2011; amd. Ord. 2012-58, 11-8-2012; Ord. 2013-22, 4-25-2013;
Ord. 2014-66, 10-16-2014; Ord. 2017-47, 9-7-2017; Ord. 2017-61, 10-19-2017;
Ord. 2018-36, 10-18-2018)
   THREE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Crabtree Avenue and Larchwood Lane
Davey Road and Murphy Road
Double Eagle Drive and Purchase Drive (Ice Arena Drive)
Greene Road and Green Trails Drive (west intersection)
Jackson Drive and Fairmont Drive
Jackson Drive and Lee Street
Larchwood Lane and Forest Glen Parkway
Mending Wall Drive and Hickory Court
Mitchell Drive and Patterson Court
Mitchell Drive and Westmoreland Drive (north intersection)
Westmoreland Drive and Mitchell Drive (south intersection)
Woodridge Drive and Chelsea Lane
Woodridge Drive and Wainwright Drive
   FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Double Eagle Drive and Seven Bridges Drive
Jackson Drive and Walnut Avenue/Jackson Court
Mending Wall Drive and North Creek Drive
Westview Lane and Everglade Avenue
Woodridge Drive and Westmoreland Drive and Williams Drive
63rd Street and Walnut Avenue
(Ord. 2011-28, 6-9-2011)
6-6-6: SCHEDULE VI - YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
In accordance with the provisions of subsection
6-4-6B2 of this title, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, the
drivers of vehicles on the following listed yield streets shall, upon
approaching the intersection of said street with the following listed right-of-
way streets, grant the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting
roadway to traffic within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the
right or left, but when the roadway is clear may proceed into the intersection:
Yield Street Right-Of-Way Street
Yield Street      Right-Of-Way Street
Butternut Court   Crabtree Avenue
Carpenter Court   Westmoreland Drive
Catalpa Avenue    Crabtree Avenue
Catalpa Avenue    Forest Glen Parkway
Chesterton Drive  Egerton Drive
Chesterton Drive  Harcourt Drive
Chippingham Road  Egerton Court
Clark Drive       Bradley Drive
Crabtree Court    Crabtree Avenue
Dalewood Parkway  Crabtree Avenue
Deerfield Avenue  Crabtree Avenue
Deerfield Avenue  Forest Glen Parkway
Fairmont Drive    Stonewall Drive
Halsey Drive      Winston Drive
Ide Drive         Hartford Lane
Iroquois Court    Everglade Avenue
Kimball Court     Westmoreland Drive
Kincaid Drive     Westmoreland Drive
King Court        Mitchell Drive
Knotty Pine Court Crabtree Avenue
Langley Court     Mitchell Drive
Martin Drive      Williams Drive
Oak Leaf Drive    North Creek Drive
Paddington Road   Egerton Court
Patton Drive      Wainwright Drive
Perry Drive       Stonewall Drive
Ross Drive        Stonewall Drive
Sheridan Drive    Sherman Drive
Sheridan Drive    Tyler Drive
Sherman Drive     Stonewall Drive
Sprucewood Avenue Crabtree Avenue
Sprucewood Avenue Forest Glen Parkway
Sun Drop Avenue   Wild Plum Drive
Valley View Lane  Crabtree Avenue
Walnut Avenue     Crabtree Avenue
Walnut Avenue     Forest Glen Parkway
Wellington Road   Egerton Court
Westridge Drive   Forest Glen Parkway
Westridge Drive   Woodview Drive
White Drive       Roberts Drive
Willow Avenue     Catalpa Avenue
Willow Avenue     Forest Glen Parkway
Wolfe Court       Lee Street
Wolfe Drive       Lee Street
Woodview Drive    Crabtree Avenue
Young Court       Williams Drive
 
(Ord. 2010-41, 8-19-2010; amd. Ord. 2017-47, 9-7-2017; Ord. 2019-42, 9-19-2019)
6-6-7: SCHEDULE VII - U-TURNS PROHIBITED:
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, the operator of any vehicle shall
be prohibited from making a U-turn upon any street or parts of streets as
follows:
DAVEY ROAD:
From its intersection with Murphy Road for a distance 500 feet east thereof.
LARCHWOOD LANE:
Along the east side of the street from Crabtree Avenue to Deerfield Avenue.
MURPHY ROAD:
From its intersection with Davey Road for a distance 500 feet south thereof.
(Ord. 2000-59, 11-9-2000; amd. Ord. 2022-43, 8-4-2022)
6-6-8: SCHEDULE VIII - PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES:
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall, at any time,
stop or park a vehicle upon any of the following described streets or parts of
streets, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the direction of a police officer or traffic control device:
CENTER DRIVE:
 Along both sides of the street, from Woodridge Drive to Janes Avenue.
DOUBLE EAGLE DRIVE:
 Along both sides of the street, from Hobson Road to Mulligan Drive.
EVERGLADE AVENUE:
 Along the north side of the street, from the east right-of-way line of Route
  53, easterly for a distance of 65 feet.
 Along the south side of the street, from the east right-of-way line of Route
  53, easterly for a distance of 100 feet.
FOREST GLEN PARKWAY:
 Along the north side of the street, from the west curb line of Woodridge
  Drive, westerly for a distance of 150 feet.
 Along the south side of the street, from the west curb line of Woodridge
  Drive, westerly for a distance of 60 feet.
GREEN TRAILS DRIVE:
 Along the north and south sides of the street, for a distance of 200 feet
  west of Greene Road.
GREENE ROAD:
 Along the east and west sides of the street, for a distance of 200 feet south
  of Green Trails Drive.
 Along the east and west sides of the street from Hobson Road to Didrikson
  Lane.
 Along the east side of the street, for a distance of 300 feet north of Green
  Trails Drive.
 Along the north side of the street, for a distance of 40 feet east of the
  most westerly intersection of Bobby Jones Lane.
 Along the west side of the street, for a distance of 375 feet north of Green
  Trails Drive.
HERITAGE PARKWAY (NORTH I-55 FRONTAGE ROAD):
 Along both sides of the street, from Woodward Avenue to Timber Trails.
HIGH TRAIL:
  Along the north side of the street, from the east right-of-way line of Route
 53 easterly for a distance of 80 feet and along the south side of the street,
  from the east right-of-way line of Route 53 easterly for a distance of 100
  feet.
HOBSON ROAD:
 Along the north and south sides of the road within the Village limits.
INTERNATIONALE PARKWAY:
 Both sides of the street from Lemont Road to Joliet Road.
JANES AVENUE:
  Along the east and west sides of the street from 75th Street to Lorraine
 Avenue, however, pick up and drop off only allowed along the west side of the
  street from 200 feet south of Center Drive to the north entrance of Jefferson
  Jr. High School.
 Along the east and west sides of the street from 75th Street to 83rd Street.
KATHERINE'S CROSSING:
  Along the southern side of the cul-de-sac on Katherine's Crossing, easterly
 from the southerly intersection of the private drive (serving 11240
  Katherine's Crossing) with the Katherine's Crossing ROW, for a distance of
  225 feet.
MENDING WALL DRIVE:
 Along the east side of the street, from North Creek Drive to Autumn Drive.
MITCHELL DRIVE:
 Along the west curb line northerly from Westmoreland Drive for a distance of
  100 feet.
MULLIGAN DRIVE:
 Along both sides of the street, from Route 53 to Double Eagle Drive.
MURPHY ROAD:
 Both sides of the street, from Woodward Avenue west/northwest to the terminus
  of Murphy Road.
PRENTICE DRIVE:
 Along both sides of the street from Hobson Road to Lamond Avenue.
SEVEN BRIDGES DRIVE:
 Along both sides of the street, from Route 53 to Double Eagle Drive.
SOUTH 75th STREET FRONTAGE ROAD:
 Along both sides of the street from Larchwood Lane to the extreme east end.
 Along the north side of the street, from 2815 75th Street to Larchwood Lane.
WAINWRIGHT DRIVE:
 Along the east side of the street from Hobson Road to Patton Drive.
WESTMINSTER DRIVE:
 Along the north side of the street, from the centerline of Charing Cross
  Road, for a distance of 87 feet to the west and 72 feet to the east.
 Along the north side of the street, from the centerline of Havens Drive, for
  a distance of 70 feet to the east.
 Along the south side of the street, from the centerline of Charing Cross
  Road, for a distance of 72 feet to the west and 72 feet to the east.
 Along the south side of the street, from the west property line of 20W395
  Westminster Drive, for a distance of 90 feet to the east.
WOODRIDGE DRIVE:
 Along both sides of the street, from Center Drive to 75th Street.
 Along both sides of the street, from Hobson Road to Maxwell Drive.
 Along both sides of the street, from 75th Street to 30 feet south of Forest
  Glen Parkway.
 Along the north side of the street, westerly from MacArthur Drive, for a
  distance of 200 feet.
 Along the west side of the street, from Hobson Road to Roberts Drive or along
  the east side of the street, from Hobson Road to Mitchell Drive.
WOODWARD AVENUE:
 Along both sides of the street, from 75th Street to north Village limits.
 Along both sides of the street, from 87th Street to Internationale Parkway.
71st STREET:
 Along both sides of the street, from Janes Avenue to Woodward Avenue.
 Along the north side of the street, westerly from Woodridge Drive for a
  distance of 150 feet.
 Along the south side of the street, westerly from Woodridge Drive for a
  distance of 500 feet.
83rd STREET:
 Both sides of the street from Route 53 to Lemont Road.
 
(Ord. 2011-60, 12-8-2011; amd. Ord. 2012-50, 10-25-2012; Ord. 2013-4, 1-24-
2013; Ord. 2014-19, 4-10-2014; Ord. 2017-85, 12-21-2017)
6-6-9: SCHEDULE IX - PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON CERTAIN
STREETS:
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified herein of any day except Sundays and public
holidays within the district or upon any of the following described streets or
parts of streets, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the direction of a police officer or traffic control device:
 
Name Of Street                             Hours Parking Prohibited
Apache Lane along the south, west, and    During baseball games
east side of the street.
Woodridge Drive, on the west side of the
street from a point 460 feet north of     School days - 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
the crosswalk southerly to the entrance/
exit drive to Edgewood School.
 
(Ord. 2010-43, 8-19-2010; amd. Ord. 2014-19, 4-10-2014)
6-6-10: SCHEDULE X - STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED:
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle during the hours specified herein on any day or upon any of the
streets or parts of the streets as follows:
ARGONNE DRIVE:
 Along the east side from Internationale Parkway north for a distance of 815
  feet.
 Along the west side from Internationale Parkway north for a distance of 740
  feet.
 Hours stopping, standing or parking prohibited - at all times.
CANTERBURY LANE:
 Along the east side from Clarendon Lane to a point 40 feet north of Clarendon
  Lane right- of-way.
 Hours stopping, standing or parking prohibited - school days - 8:00 A.M. to
  4:00 P.M.
CLARENDON LANE:
 Along the north side between Geneva Street and Canterbury Lane.
 Along the south side from a point 30 feet east of Canterbury Lane right-of-
  way to a point 116 feet in an easterly direction therefrom.
 Hours stopping, standing or parking prohibited - school days - 8:00 A.M. to
  4:00 P.M.
HOBSON ROAD:
 North and south sides of the street, from Route 53 to 700 feet east of
  Wainwright Drive.
 Hours stopping, standing or parking prohibited - school days - 8:00 A.M. to
  4:00 P.M.
JACKSON DRIVE:
  Along the north side between the east right-of-way line of Ridgeway Drive to
 a point 100 feet east, and west right-of-way line of Sherman Drive to a point
  100 feet west and on the south side of Jackson Drive from Tyler Court to
  Ridgeway Drive.
 Hours stopping, standing or parking prohibited - school days - 8:00 A.M. to
  4:00 P.M.
JANESWOOD DRIVE:
 Along the north and south sides of the street from Woodridge Drive to 100
  feet east of the Swallow Court intersection.
 Hours stopping, standing or parking prohibited - at all times.
LAKEVIEW COURT:
  Along the west side of the street from #6732 Lakeview Court’s driveway,
 around the cul- de-sac, along the east side of #6731 Lakeview Court’s
  driveway.
LARCHWOOD LANE:
 Along the east side of the street from Crabtree Avenue to 7617 Larchwood
  Lane.
 Hours stopping, standing or parking prohibited - school days - 8:00 A.M. to
  4:00 P.M.
 Along the west side of the street from Deerfield Avenue to 200 feet south to
  the School’s driveway entrance.
MITCHELL DRIVE:
 Along the north side of the street from the centerline of Patterson Court
  easterly for a distance of 348 feet.
 Along the north side of the street from the centerline of Patterson Court
  westerly for a distance of 75 feet.
  Along the south side of the street from a point 290 feet west of the
 centerline of Patterson Court easterly to the Meadowview School west
  entrance.
  Along the south side of the street from a point 452 feet east of Patterson
 Court westerly to the east curb line of the east entrance of Meadowview
  School - at all times.
 Along the south side of the street from the west curb line of the east
  entrance of Meadowview School westerly for a distance of 30 feet.
 Hours stopping, standing or parking prohibited - school days - 8:00 A.M. to
  4:00 P.M.
PATTERSON COURT:
 Along the east and west sides for a distance of 65 feet north of the
  centerline of Mitchell Drive.
 Hours stopping, standing or parking prohibited - school days - 8:00 A.M. to
  4:00 P.M.
PROVIDENCE DRIVE:
  Along the east and north side from the north end of the right-of-way
 following the curb line for a distance of 890 feet toward the 75th Street
  intersection.
  Along the west and south side from a point 540 feet south of the north end of
 the right-of- way for a distance of 150 feet along the curb line toward the
  75th Street intersection.
 Hours stopping, standing or parking prohibited - at all times.
RIDGEWAY DRIVE:
 Along the east side of the street from Jackson Drive to 200 feet north.
SHERMAN DRIVE:
 Along the east side of the street from Jackson Drive too 175 feet north.
WOODRIDGE DRIVE:
 On the west side of the street from a point 100 feet south of the crosswalk
  northerly to the entrance/exit drive to Edgewood School.
 Hours stopping, standing or parking prohibited - school days - 8:00 A.M. to
  4:00 P.M.
101st STREET:
 Along the north side anywhere within the Village limits.
 Along the south side from a point 710 feet west of the west right-of-way line
  of Lemont Road, westerly to the Village limits.
 Along the south side from the west right-of-way line of Lemont Road, westerly
  for a distance of 240 feet.
 Hours stopping, standing or parking prohibited - at all times.
103rd STREET:
 Along the north side anywhere within the Village limits.
 Along the south side from a point 200 feet west of Argonne Drive easterly to
  the Village limits.
 Along the south side from Woodward Avenue easterly for a distance of 450
  feet.
 Hours stopping, standing or parking prohibited - at all times.
 
(Ord. 2012-14, 4-12-2012; amd. Ord. 2014-19, 4-10-2014; Ord. 2017-8, 3-16-2017;
Ord. 2017-59, 10-5-2017; Ord. 2022-43, 8-4-2022)
6-6-11: SCHEDULE XI - PARKING TIME LIMITS:
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
for a period of time longer than hereinafter provided within the district or
upon any other street or parts of streets as follows:
 
Name Of                                            Hours Stopping, Standing
Street Or District                                 Or Parking Limited
83rd Street, south side in front of 2900 to 2904  1/2 hour
 
(1976 Code §19-296; amd. 1991 Code)
6-6-12: SCHEDULE XII - FIRE LANES:
No operator of any vehicle shall park, stand or stop such vehicle for any
period of time in any area listed below and designated as a fire lane. This
section and schedule shall not apply to any vehicle of any fire protection
district, the Police Department or the various departments of the Village when
necessary when responding to an emergency call which necessitates such parking
in such designated fire lane. (1976 Code §19-293; amd. 1991 Code)
6-6-13: SCHEDULE XIII - VEHICLE SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD:
No person shall drive any vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of
chapter 8, article A of this title. (Ord. 2005-35, 5-19-2005)
6-6-14: SCHEDULE XIV - LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stop, stand or park said
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers or the unloading and delivery or picking up
and loading of materials in designated loading zones. In no case shall the stop
for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30) minutes. The members
of the Woodridge Police Department may direct the manner of taking up or
setting down passengers or loading or unloading of materials in designated
loading zones. (1976 Code §19-295)
6-6-15: SCHEDULE XV - TURNING MOVEMENT PROHIBITIONS:
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall make a turning
movement in their vehicle upon any of the following described streets or parts
of streets, during the times stated, except in compliance with the direction of
a police officer or traffic control device:
 
ILLINOIS ROUTE 53 to SUMMERHILL DRIVE:
  From northbound Illinois Route 53 to eastbound Summerhill Drive, Monday
 through Friday, between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine
  o'clock (9:00) A.M.
WOODRIDGE DRIVE to entrance of EDGEWOOD SCHOOL:
  From northbound Woodridge Drive westbound to Edgewood School entrance drive,
 Monday through Friday, between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
  eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. and between the hours of two forty five
  o'clock (2:45) P.M. and three fifteen o'clock (3:15) P.M.
 
(Ord. 2010-45, 8-19-2010)
CHAPTER 7
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Right of Way
6-7-2: Pedestrian Crossings
6-7-3: Pedestrian-Control Signals
6-7-4: Soliciting Rides or Business
6-7-5: Blind Persons, Right of Way
6-7-1: RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   B.   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections,
pedestrians shall have the right of way over drivers of vehicles as follows:
where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right of way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right of way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the right of way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked
crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the
driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake and
pass such stopped vehicle. (1976 Code §§19-61, 19-170)
6-7-2: PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS:
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, every driver
of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian
upon any roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and
shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any obviously
confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway. (1976 Code §19-171)
   D.   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks. (1976 Code §19-173)
6-7-3: PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS:
   A.   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to him, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   B.   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control signals
provided in Sections
6-3-3 and
6-3-4 of this Title, but at all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the
privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this Chapter.
(1976 Code §19-169)
6-7-4: SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS:
   A.   Soliciting Rides: No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of a vehicle.
   B.   Soliciting Business: Outside a business or residence district, no
person shall stand on or in the proximity of a roadway for the purpose of
soliciting employment, business or contributions from the occupant of any
vehicle.
   C.   Soliciting Watching of Vehicle: No person shall stand on or in the
proximity of a roadway for the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding
of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a street or highway. (1976
Code §19-174)
6-7-5: BLIND PERSONS, RIGHT OF WAY:
Any blind person who is carrying in a raised or extended position a cane or
walking stick which is white in color or white tipped with red or who is being
guided by a dog shall have the right of way in crossing any street or highway,
whether or not traffic on such street or highway is controlled by traffic
signals, anything in this Title to the contrary notwithstanding. The driver of
every vehicle approaching the place where a blind person so carrying such a
cane or walking stick or being so guided is crossing a street or highway shall
bring his vehicle to a full stop and before proceeding shall take such
precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to the blind person. The
provisions of this Section shall not apply to a blind person who is not so
carrying such a cane or walking stick or who is not guided by a dog, but the
other provisions of this Title relating to pedestrians shall then be applicable
to such person. However, the failure of a blind person to so use or carry such
a cane or walking stick or to be guided by a guide dog when walking on streets,
highways or sidewalks shall be considered evidence of contributory negligence.
(1976 Code §19-172)
CHAPTER 8
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
6-8-1: Scope and Application of Requirements
6-8-2: Clear Vision
6-8-3: Lights
6-8-3-1: General Requirements
6-8-3-2: Clearance, Identification and Side Marker Lamps
6-8-3-3: Spot Lamps and Auxiliary Driving Lamps
6-8-3-4: Lamp or Flag on Projecting Load
6-8-3-5: Signal Lamps and Signal Devices
6-8-3-6: Lights on Horse-Drawn Vehicles
6-8-3-7: Additional Lighting Equipment
6-8-3-8: Number of Driving Lamps
6-8-3-9: Use of Headlamps
6-8-3-10: Special Restrictions on Lamps
6-8-4: Brakes
6-8-5: Horns and Warning Devices
6-8-6: Muffler
6-8-7: Rear View Mirror
6-8-8: Tires and Nonskid Devices
6-8-9: Seat Belt Usage Required; Exceptions
6-8-1: SCOPE AND APPLICATION OF REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in this Title, or which is equipped in any manner in
violation of this Title, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required under this Title.
   B.   The provisions of this Title with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers or
farm tractors or to farm wagon type trailers having a fertilizer spreader
attachment permanently mounted thereon, having a gross weight of not to exceed
ten thousand (10,000) pounds and used only for the transportation of bulk
fertilizer or to farm wagon type tank trailers of not to exceed one thousand
two hundred (1,200) gallon capacity used during the liquid fertilizer season as
field storage "nurse tanks" supplying the fertilizer to a field applicator and
moved on highways only for bringing the fertilizer from a local source of
supply to the farm or field or from one farm or field to another. (1976 Code
§19-204)
6-8-2: CLEAR VISION:
   A.   No person may drive any motor vehicle:
      1.   When it is so loaded or when there are in the front seat such number
of persons as to obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the
vehicle or as to interfere with the driver's control over the driving mechanism
of the vehicle.
      2.   With any sign, poster or other nontransparent material upon the
front windshield, sidewings or side or rear windows of such vehicle which
materially obstructs, obscures or impairs the driver's clear view of the
highway or any intersecting highway.
      3.   With any objects placed or suspended between the driver and the
front windshield or between the driver and the rear window which obstructs the
driver's view of the highway.
      4.   When the windshield or rear window is in such defective condition or
repair as to directly impair the driver's vision to the front or rear.
   B.   No object, stationary or mobile, shall be placed on or suspended from
the rearview mirror, front windshield, rear window or any other part of the
inside of a motor vehicle except:
      1.   Religious or lodge statues or statuettes not exceeding six inches
(6") in height; and
      2.   Wearing apparel which is suspended behind the driver and in a manner
so as not to obstruct the driver's clear view of the highway.
   C.   No passenger in a vehicle may ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the side or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   D.   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the
vehicle. (1976 Code §§19-91, 19-221)
6-8-3: LIGHTS:
6-8-3-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
When upon any highway in this State, every motorcycle shall at all times
exhibit at least one lighted lamp showing a white light, commonly known as a
driving lamp, visible for at least five hundred feet (500') in the direction
the motorcycle is proceeding. All other motor vehicles shall, during the period
from sunset to sunrise, or at any other time when visibility is so limited as
to require the use of lights for safety, exhibit two (2) such lighted driving
lamps showing white lights or lights of a yellow or amber tint visible for at
least five hundred feet (500') in the direction the motor vehicle is
proceeding. Parking lamps may be used in addition to but not in lieu of any
such driving lamps. Every motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer shall also
exhibit at least two (2) lighted lamps, commonly known as taillamps, which
shall be mounted on the left rear and right rear of the vehicle so as to throw
a red light visible for at least five hundred feet (500') in the reverse
direction; except, that a motorcycle or a truck tractor or road tractor
manufactured before January 1, 1968, need be equipped with only one such lamp.
Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and placed as to
illuminate with a white light a rear registration plate when required and
render it clearly legible from a distance of fifty feet (50') to the rear. Any
taillamp or taillamps, together with any separate lamp or lamps for
illuminating a rear registration plate shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the driving lamps or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted. (1976 Code
§19-205)
6-8-3-2: CLEARANCE, IDENTIFICATION AND SIDE MARKER LAMPS:
   A.   Every motor vehicle of the second division, the length of which,
together with any trailer or trailers in tow thereof, is more than twenty five
feet (25') or the width of which is more than eighty inches (80"), exclusive of
mirrors, bumpers and other required safety devices, while being operated on the
highways of this Village during the period from sunset to sunrise, shall
display on the front of the vehicle two (2) yellow or amber lights, one on each
upper front corner of the vehicle, which shall be plainly visible at a distance
of at least five hundred feet (500'); also, on the rear thereof in a horizontal
line, three (3) red lights or such red lights conforming to the specifications
prescribed by the Bureau of Motor Carrier Safety of the Federal Highway
Administration, plainly visible at a distance of not less than five hundred
feet (500'); also, on the front of the body of that vehicle near the lower
left-hand corner one yellow or amber tinted reflector and near the lower right-
hand corner one yellow or amber tinted reflector; also, red reflectors on the
rear of the body of that vehicle not more than twelve inches (12") from the
lower left-hand and right-hand corners. All motor vehicles of the second
division more than twenty feet (20') long and all trailers and semi-trailers,
except trailers and semi-trailers having a gross weight of three thousand
(3,000) pounds or less including the weight of the trailer and maximum load,
while being operated on the highways of this Village during the period from
sunset to sunrise shall display on each side of the vehicle at approximately
the one-third (1/3) point of the length of the same, at a height not exceeding
five feet (5') above the surface of the road and reflecting on a line
approximately at right angles to the center line of the vehicle, two (2) amber
tinted reflectors of a type approved by the Secretary of State or reflectors on
each side thereof conforming to the specifications prescribed by the Bureau of
Motor Carrier Safety of the Federal Highway Administration; provided, however,
that on motor vehicles equipped with acetylene headlights, approved reflectors
conforming as to color and location may be used in lieu of the two (2) yellow
or amber lights and the three (3) red lights required under this Section.
   B.   Every trailer and semi-trailer having a gross weight of three thousand
(3,000) pounds or less including the weight of the trailer and maximum load,
towed either by a motor vehicle of the first division or a motor vehicle of the
second division shall be equipped with two (2) red reflectors which will be
visible when hit by headlight beams three hundred feet (300') away at night on
the rear of the body of such trailer not more than twelve inches (12") from the
lower left-hand and lower right-hand corners. (1976 Code §19-208)
6-8-3-3: SPOT LAMPS AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LAMPS:
   A.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed one spot lamp and
every lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another
vehicle that no part of the high intensity portion of the beam will be directed
to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor
more than one hundred feet (100') ahead of the vehicle.
   B.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed three (3)
auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than twelve
inches (12") nor more than forty two inches (42") above the level surface upon
which the vehicle stands. (1976 Code §19-211)
6-8-3-4: LAMP OR FLAG ON PROJECTING LOAD:
Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet (4') or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at the times specified in Section
6-8-3-1 hereof, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at
least five hundred feet (500') to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern
required under this Section shall be in addition to the red rear light required
upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than twelve inches (12")
square. (1976 Code §19-210)
6-8-3-5: SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES:
   A.   Stop Lamps: Every vehicle other than an antique vehicle displaying an
antique plate operated in this Village shall be equipped with a stop lamp or
lamps on the rear of the vehicle which shall display a red or amber light
visible from a distance of not less than five hundred feet (500') to the rear
in normal sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon application of the service
(foot) brake, and which may but need not be incorporated with other rear lamps.
During times when lighted lamps are not required, an antique vehicle may be
equipped with a stop lamp or lamps on the rear of such vehicle of the same type
originally installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in working
order. However, at all other times, such antique vehicle must be equipped with
stop lamps meeting the requirements of this Section.
   B.   Signaling Devices:
      1.   Every motor vehicle other than an antique vehicle displaying an
antique plate shall be equipped with an electric turn signal device which shall
indicate the intention of the driver to turn to the right or to the left in the
form of flashing lights located at and showing to the front and rear of the
vehicle on the side of the vehicle toward which the turn is to be made. The
lamps showing to the front shall be mounted on the same level and as widely
spaced laterally as practicable and, when signaling, shall emit a white or
amber light or any shade of light between white and amber. The lamps showing to
the rear shall be mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable and, when signaling, shall emit a red or amber light. Antique
vehicles need not be equipped with turn signals unless such were installed by
the manufacturer as original equipment, and such devices shall be of the same
type originally installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in
working order.
      2.   Every trailer and semi-trailer shall be equipped with an electric
turn signal device which indicates the intention of the driver in the power
unit to turn to the right or to the left in the form of flashing red or amber
lights located at the rear of the vehicle on the side toward which the turn is
to be made, mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable.
      3.   Motorcycles and motor-driven cycles need not be equipped with
electric turn signals.
      4.   Turn signal lamps must be visible from a distance of not less than
three hundred feet (300') in normal sunlight. (1976 Code §§19-67, 19-212)
6-8-3-6: LIGHTS ON HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any cart, wagon, omnibus, cab, carriage or other
wheeled vehicle of similar description drawn by animal power to be kept, used
or operated upon any of the streets or public ways of the Village from sunset
until sunrise unless such cart, wagon, omnibus, cab or carriage or other horse-
drawn vehicle shall carry at least one lamp showing a red light so placed as to
be visible from the rear. Said lamp shall be of sufficient illuminating power
to be visible for a distance of two hundred feet (200') and shall be placed or
fixed upon the rear or on the left side of the vehicle so as to be plainly
visible and free from obstruction. (1976 Code §19-207)
6-8-3-7: ADDITIONAL LIGHTING EQUIPMENT:
Any motor vehicle may be equipped with:
   A.   Not more than two (2) side cowl or fender lamps which shall emit an
amber or white light without glare.
   B.   Not more than one running board courtesy lamp on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
   C.   One or more backup lamps either separately or in combination with other
lamps, but any such backup lamp or lamps shall not be lighted when the motor
vehicle is in forward motion. (1976 Code §19-213)
6-8-3-8: NUMBER OF DRIVING LAMPS:
   A.   At all times specified in Section
6-8-3-1 hereof, at least two (2) lighted driving lamps shall be displayed, one
on each side of the front of every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle,
except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing lights
on parked vehicles.
   B.   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with driving lamps as herein required
is also equipped with any auxiliary driving lamps or a spot lamp or any other
lamp on the front thereof projecting a beam of an intensity greater than three
hundred (300) candlepower, not more than a total of four (4) of any such lamps
on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at any one time when upon a highway.
(1976 Code §19-215)
6-8-3-9: USE OF HEADLAMPS:
   A.   Whenever the driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving
headlamp or headlamps is within five hundred feet (500') of another vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction, the driver shall dim or drop such
headlamp or headlamps.
   B.   The driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving headlamp or
headlamps shall dim or drop such headlamp or headlamps when there is another
vehicle traveling in the same direction less than three hundred feet (300') to
the front of him. (1976 Code §19-214)
6-8-3-10: SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS ON LAMPS:
Except as provided in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-215:
   A.   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any highway
with any lamp or device thereon displaying a red light visible from directly in
front thereof.
   B.   Subject to the restrictions in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-804
(d), flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles except as a means for
indicating a right or left turn or the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard
requiring unusual care in approaching, overtaking or passing. (1976 Code §19-
216)
6-8-4: BRAKES:
   A.   Generally: Every motor vehicle, other than a motor-driven cycle and an
antique vehicle displaying an antique plate, when operated upon a highway shall
be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and
hold such vehicle, including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes,
each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at least one
wheel on a motorcycle and at least two (2) wheels on all other first division
and second division vehicles. If these two (2) separate means of applying the
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle
without brakes.
   B.   Motorcycles: Every motor-driven cycle when operated upon a highway
shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be operated by hand or
foot.
   C.   Antique Vehicles: Every antique vehicle shall be equipped with the
brakes of the same type originally installed by the manufacturer as original
equipment and in working order.
   D.   Trailers and Semi-Trailers: Every trailer or semi-trailer of a gross
weight of three thousand (3,000) pounds or more, when operated upon a highway,
must be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of, to stop and
to hold such vehicle, and designed so as to be operable by the driver of the
towing vehicle from its cab. Such brakes must be so designed and connected that
in case of an accidental breakaway of a towed vehicle weighing five thousand
(5,000) pounds or more, the brakes are automatically applied.
   E.   Service Brakes: Every motor vehicle, trailer, pole trailer or semi-
trailer sold in this Village or operated upon the highways shall be equipped
with service brakes upon all wheels of every such vehicle, except any motor-
driven cycle, and except that any trailer, pole trailer or semi-trailer of less
than three thousand (3,000) pounds' gross weight need not be equipped with
brakes, and except that any trailer or semi-trailer with gross weight of three
thousand (3,000) pounds but under five thousand (5,000) pounds need be equipped
with brakes on only one wheel on each side of the vehicle. Any motor vehicle
and truck tractor having three (3) or more axles need not have brakes on the
front wheels, except when such vehicles are equipped with at least two (2)
steerable axles, the wheels of one such axle need not be equipped with brakes.
However, a vehicle that is more than thirty (30) years of age and which is
driven on the highways only in going to and returning from an antique auto show
or for servicing or for a demonstration need be equipped with two (2) wheel
brakes only. (1976 Code §19-217)
6-8-5: HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES:
   A.   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be equipped with
a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than two hundred feet (200'), but no
horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound or
a whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
insure safe operation, give audible warning with his horn but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a highway.
   B.   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
subsection. Any authorized emergency vehicle as defined in this Title may be
equipped with a siren, whistle or bell capable of emitting sound audible under
normal conditions from a distance of not less than five hundred feet (500'),
but such siren, whistle or bell shall not be used except when such vehicle is
operated in response to an emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an
actual or suspected violator of the law, in either of which events the driver
of such vehicle shall sound such siren, whistle or bell when necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof. (1976 Code §19-218)
6-8-6: MUFFLER:
Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon the highways of this Village shall
at all times be equipped with an adequate muffler or exhaust system in constant
operation and properly maintained to prevent any excessive or unusual noise. No
such muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped with a cutout, bypass or
similar device. No person shall modify the exhaust system of a motor vehicle in
a manner which will amplify or increase the noise of such vehicle above that
emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle and such original
muffler shall comply with all the requirements of this Section. (1976 Code §19-
219)
6-8-7: REAR VIEW MIRROR:
Every motor vehicle operated singly or when towing another vehicle shall be
equipped with a mirror having at least three (3) square inches reflecting
surface and so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the highway for a
distance of at least two hundred feet (200') to the rear of such motor vehicle.
(1976 Code §19-220)
6-8-8: TIRES AND NONSKID DEVICES:
   A.   All motor vehicles and all other vehicles in tow thereof, or thereunto
attached, operating upon any roadway shall have tires of rubber or some
material of equal resiliency. Solid tires shall be considered defective and
shall not be permitted to be used if the rubber or other material has been worn
or otherwise reduced to a thickness of less than three-fourths inch (3/4") or
if such tires have been so worn or otherwise damaged as to cause undue
vibration when the vehicle is in motion or to cause undue concentration of the
wheel load on the surface of the road. The requirements of this section do not
apply to agricultural tractors being used or to agricultural engines or to
agricultural machinery including wagons being used for agricultural purposes in
tow thereof or to road rollers or road building machinery operated at a speed
not in excess of ten (10) miles per hour. All motor vehicles of the second
division operating upon any roadway shall have pneumatic tires, unless exempted
herein.
   B.   No metal tired vehicle including tractors, motor vehicles of the second
division, traction engines and other similar vehicles, shall be operated over
any improved highway of this village if such vehicle has on the periphery of
any of the road wheels any block, stud, flange, cleat, ridge, lug or any
projection of metal or wood which projects radially beyond the tread or traffic
surface of the tire. This prohibition does not apply to track type motor
vehicles when that part of the vehicle coming in contact with the road surface
does not contain any projections of any kind likely to injure the surface of
the road; however, tractors, traction engines and similar vehicles may be
operated which have upon their road wheels V-shaped, diagonal or other cleats
arranged in such a manner as to be continuously in contact with the road
surface; provided, that the gross weight upon such wheels per inch of width of
such cleats in contact with the road surface, when measured in the direction of
the axle of the vehicle, does not exceed eight hundred (800) pounds.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the use of tire
chains of reasonable proportion upon any vehicle when required for safety
because of snow, ice or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid.
(1976 Code §19-223)
6-8-9: SEAT BELT USAGE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Use Of Seat Belt Required: Each driver and front seat passenger of a
motor vehicle operated on a street or highway in the village shall wear a
properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt; except that a child less than
six (6) years of age shall be protected as required pursuant to the child
passenger protection act 1 . Each driver under the age of eighteen (18) years
and each of the driver's passengers under the age of eighteen (18) years of a
motor vehicle operated on a street or highway in this village shall wear a
properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt. Each driver of a motor vehicle
transporting a child six (6) years of age or more, but less than sixteen (16)
years of age, in the front seat of the motor vehicle shall secure the child in
a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not
apply to any of the following:
      1.   A driver or passenger frequently stopping and leaving the vehicle or
delivering property from the vehicle, if the speed of the vehicle between stops
does not exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour.
      2.   A driver or passenger possessing a written statement from a
physician that such person is unable, for medical or physical reasons, to wear
a seat safety belt.
      3.   A driver or passenger possessing an official certificate or license
endorsement issued by the appropriate agency in another state or country
indicating that the driver or passenger is unable for medical, physical, or
other valid reasons to wear a seat safety belt.
      4.   A driver operating a motor vehicle in reverse.
      5.   A motor vehicle with a model year prior to 1965.
      6.   A motorcycle or motor driven cycle.
      7.   A motorized pedalcycle.
      8.   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with seat
safety belts under federal law.
      9.   A motor vehicle operated by a rural letter carrier of the United
States postal service while performing duties as a rural letter carrier.
   C.   Effect Of Failure To Use A Seat Belt: Failure to wear a seat safety
belt in violation of this section shall not be considered evidence of
negligence, shall not limit the liability of an insurer, and shall not diminish
any recovery for damages arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or
operation of a motor vehicle. (Ord. 2003-28, 4-24-2003)
   D.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall be a petty offense and
subject to a fine not to exceed thirty dollars ($30.00). (Ord. 2006-48, 9-21-
2006)
   E.   Officer Rights: Any village police officer may stop any motor vehicle,
or driver or passenger of such vehicle in violation of this section while such
motor vehicle is being operated on any street or highway in this village. (Ord.
2003-28, 4-24-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
ARTICLE A. VEHICLE SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD
SECTION:
6-8A-1: Scope And Effect Of Provisions
6-8A-2: Width Of Vehicles
6-8A-3: Length Of Vehicles
6-8A-4: Vehicle Weight And Load
6-8A-5: Permit Required For Overweight And Overdimension Vehicles
6-8A-6: Towed Vehicles
6-8A-7: Protection And Maintenance Of Public Ways
6-8A-8: Enforcement And Penalties
6-8A-1: SCOPE AND EFFECT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move on, upon or across or
for the owner to cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on, upon or
across any highway any vehicle or vehicles of a size, weight, or load not in
conformance with the limitations and regulations stated in Illinois Compiled
Statutes chapter 625, act 5, sections 15-102 (width), 15-103 (height), 15-107
(length) and 15-111 (weight), as such limitations and regulations are amended
from time to time.
   B.   The provisions of this title governing size, weight and load do not
apply to fire apparatus or equipment for snow and ice removal operations owned,
operated, or contracted by any governmental body, or village owned or
contracted vehicles engaged in emergency utility repairs, or to implements of
husbandry temporarily operated or towed in combination upon a highway;
provided, such combination does not consist of more than three (3) vehicles or,
in the case of hauling fresh, perishable fruits or vegetables from the farm to
the point of first processing, not more than three (3) wagons being towed by an
implement of husbandry, or to a vehicle operated under the terms of a special
permit issued pursuant to law. (Ord. 2005-35, 5-19-2005)
6-8A-2: WIDTH OF VEHICLES:
   A.   General Requirements: The maximum width of any vehicle, except as
otherwise provided in this article, shall comply with the provisions of
Illinois Compiled Statutes chapter 625, act 5, section 15-102, as amended from
time to time.
   B.   Projecting Load On Passenger Vehicles: No passenger type vehicle shall
be operated on any highway with any load carried thereon extending beyond the
line of the fenders on the left side of such vehicle nor extending more than
six inches (6") beyond the line of the fenders on the right side thereof. (Ord.
2005-35, 5-19-2005)
6-8A-3: LENGTH OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Maximum Length: The maximum length of a single vehicle and combinations
of vehicles may not exceed the limits set forth in Illinois Compiled Statutes
chapter 625, act 5, section 15-107, as amended from time to time.
   B.   Exceptions To Provisions: Length limitations shall not apply to
vehicles otherwise exempt pursuant to the provisions of this article or
Illinois Compiled Statutes chapter 625, act 5, section 15-107, as amended from
time to time. However, it is unlawful under any circumstances for any vehicle
to push any other vehicle outside an urban area except in an extreme emergency
and then the vehicle shall not be pushed farther than is reasonably necessary
to remove it from the roadway or from the immediate hazard that exists. (Ord.
2005-35, 5-19-2005)
6-8A-4: VEHICLE WEIGHT AND LOAD 1 :
   A.   General Weight And Load Requirements:
      1.   Authority: The mayor and board of trustees may by ordinance or
resolution prohibit the operation of trucks or other commercial vehicles, or
may impose limitations as to the weight thereof on designated highways which
prohibitions and limitations shall be designated by appropriate signs on such
highways 2 .
      2.   Permission Required For Overweight Vehicles: Any vehicle may for the
purpose of making deliveries upon the aforesaid streets use them by first
obtaining written permission from the director of public works.
      3.   Restrictions On Through Traffic: All through traffic, whose
destination is beyond any point on the above mentioned streets, shall be
prohibited from using any of the streets mentioned in this title.
      4.   Signs Posted: The department of public works shall place signs on
each of the aforesaid streets.
      5.   Other Weight Restrictions: If no such limitations are indicated by
appropriate signs, it shall be unlawful for any truck or vehicle to be operated
upon any completed or paved streets within the village when such vehicle
exceeds the weight limits set forth in Illinois Compiled Statutes chapter 625,
act 5, section 15-111, as amended from time to time, except as otherwise
provided in this article. (Ord. 2005-35, 5-19-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  3-7-7C of this code, buses exempt from weight restrictions.
2 2. See section
  6-6-13 of this title for street schedules.
6-8A-5: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OVERWEIGHT AND OVERDIMENSION VEHICLES:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, lessee
or driver to operate or move any vehicle over, upon or across any village road
or highway when the vehicle exceeds any of the limitations and regulations
stated in Illinois Compiled Statutes chapter 625, act 5, sections 15-102
(width), 15-103 (height), 15-107 (length) and 15-111 (weight), as such
limitations and regulations are amended from time to time, without having first
obtained a valid permit to do so from the director of public works.
   B.   Liability For Damage: The permittee shall assume total liability for
any and all damages to streets, bridges, village owned appurtenances and
private or public property while engaged in a permit movement. The measure of
liability is the cost for all repairs or the cost of replacement of property
damaged beyond repair together with all other expenses incurred by the
authorities in control of the highway structure in providing a temporary
detour, including a temporary structure, to serve the needs of traffic during
the period of repair or replacement of the damaged highway or highway structure
by the permittee.
   C.   Application For Permit; Authority To Grant And Establish Conditions:
The director of public works shall be empowered to receive, investigate and
determine the propriety of requests to transport or move overweight and
overdimension vehicles over, upon or across village roads and highways, to
require written application therefor, and to issue permits therefor consistent
with the public health, comfort, safety and welfare and the reasonable
preservation of the village roads and highways. The application for and
issuance of a permit shall be in accordance with Illinois Compiled Statutes
chapter 625, act 5, section 15-301, as amended from time to time, and all
movements under the permit shall be made in accordance with all applicable
federal, state and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
      1.   Permits shall be issued only in the name of a person, firm,
business, or corporation that owns and operates the transporting vehicle or
that operates the vehicle under a bona fide lease agreement. The permit is
nontransferable and applies only to the permittee. Whenever such driver is not
the owner of such vehicle, object, or contrivance, but is so operating,
driving, or moving the same with the express or implied permission of the
owner, then the owner and driver are jointly and severally liable to the extent
provided herein.
      2.   The permit, when issued, constitutes an agreement between the
permittee and the village that the move described in the application will take
place only as described. The permittee has the responsibility to report to the
village any inaccuracies or errors on the part of either the village or the
permittee before starting any move. Any revisions made at the request of the
permittee for purposes of changing weights, dimensions, routes, or load
description shall be made at a cost of ten dollars ($10.00) per permit.
Undertaking the move is prima facie evidence of acceptance of the permit as
issued and its terms.
      3.   The route prescribed in the permit constitutes the sole extent of
the authority granted by the permit for the use of village roads, and any
vehicle and/or load found to be off route will be considered off route and
without a permit.
      4.   It is the duty of the permittee to read and familiarize himself or
herself with the permit provisions upon receipt. Undertaking of the permit move
is deemed prima facie evidence of acceptance of the permit and that:
         a.   The permittee is in compliance with all operation requirements;
         b.   All dimension and weight limitations specified in the permit
shall not be exceeded;
         c.   All operation, registration and license requirements have been
complied with;
         d.   All financial responsibilities, obligations and other legal
requirements have been met; and
         e.   The permittee, including its officers, agents, or employees,
assumes all responsibility for injury or damage to persons or to public or
private property, including his or her own, or to the object being transported,
caused directly or indirectly by the transportation or movement of vehicles and
objects authorized under the permit. He or she agrees to hold the village
harmless from all suits, claims, damages, or proceedings of any kind and to
indemnify the village for any claim it may be required to pay arising from the
movement.
      5.   Upon application for a permit(s), the village may require an
applicant to provide evidence of a valid comprehensive general liability
insurance policy for protection against personal injury or property damage, in
the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence. The village
shall be named as an additional, noncontributory coinsured on all policies of
insurance. The village shall receive written notice of cancellation or
reduction in coverage of any insurance policy thirty (30) days prior to the
effective date of cancellation or reduction. The permittee will be responsible
for obtaining new insurance coverage in this event. In addition, the permittee
shall carry, at its own expense, at least the following insurance coverage:
         a.   Commercial general liability insurance:
Bodily injury, personal injury, and property damage with limits of not less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) each occurrence/two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) aggregate.
Contractual insurance - broad form, with limits of not less than one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) each occurrence/two million dollars ($2,000,000.00)
aggregate.
         b.   Business automobile liability: One million dollars
($1,000,000.00) combined single limit per accident for bodily injury and
property damage.
      6.   As a condition of the issuance of any permit, the director of public
works shall have the power to regulate the date, time, route and conditions,
safety equipment and measures to be employed in making any such movement. This
may include the use of Woodridge police department escorts, which shall be
determined by the village based on density of the area and other safety
concerns, at the sole discretion of the village. The expenses for such escort
shall be paid for by the permittee with a one hour minimum charge. The director
of public works shall process all applications within one business day of the
receipt of a complete and proper application. Said applications and permits
shall be made and granted upon such forms as the director of public works may,
from time to time, reasonably provide.
The permits issued under this section constitute the grant of a privilege by
the village and may be denied, suspended or revoked for such reasons as the
village may deem rationally related to its governmental interests including,
but not limited to:
         a.   A permittee knowingly providing incorrect information on an
application for a permit;
         b.   A permittee, its agents or employees acting on a permit which has
been altered;
         c.   Noncompliance by permittee, its agents or employees with federal,
state or local laws pertaining to the transport of goods or operation of a
vehicle engaged in the transportation of goods;
         d.   Overdue fines or fees due to the village;
         e.   Moving on village streets without a valid permit as is required.
      7.   Suspension or revocation of a current permit shall be for the time
determined appropriate by the director of public works or his or her designee;
however, reinstatement may be made upon conditions determined by the village
and payment of all outstanding settlements or judgments. The charges for
reinstatement are:
 
Denial    No charge
Suspended $50.00
Revoked   75.00
 
The director of public works or his or her designee shall administer and
enforce this section and shall have the authority to grant, deny, suspend,
revoke and reinstate permits. Any applicant or permittee denied a permit or who
has had a permit suspended or revoked, upon request, shall be given a hearing
before the director of public works or his or her designee and, if applicant or
permittee desires, may appeal the decision of the director of public works
before the village administrator.
   D.   Permit Fees: Permits may be applied for and granted in accordance with
the following schedule and definitions:
MULTIPLE MOVES: Those in such close proximity to each other in distance or in
time that the village would consider incorporating two (2) or more permit moves
as one move. Multiple move permits, when granted by the village, shall be for a
period of time not to exceed thirty (30) days from the date of issuance.
Multiple moves must be identified prior to obtaining a permit.
ONE-WAY OR SINGLE TRIP MOVEMENT: One move from the point of origin to the point
of destination. Any additional stops between the point of origin and the point
of destination are expressly prohibited. Single trip permits are valid for five
(5) consecutive days from date of issuance unless otherwise directed by the
village in writing.
ROUND TRIP MOVEMENT: Two (2) trips over the same route in opposite directions.
Round trip permits are valid for ten (10) consecutive days from the date of
issuance.
 
                    Fee
   Permit Size   Single Trip       Round Trip          Multiple Moves
Weight (with load):                                      
Up to 88,000 pounds $ 50.00                 $ 75.00       $150.00
88,001 - 100,000    75.00             100.00              175.00
100,001 - 120,000   100.00            125.00              225.00
120,001 - 150,000   125.00            150.00              300.00
Over 150,000        125.001           150.001                -
Width (with load):                                       
Up to 12'           50.00             75.00               150.00
12'1" - 13'6"       75.00             100.00              175.00
Over 13'6"          75.001            100.001                -
Height (with load):                                      
13'6" - 14'6"             50.00       75.00         150.00
Over 14'6"                50.001      75.001     -
Length (with load)                                       
Up to 75'0"               50.00       75.00         150.00
75'1" - 100'0"            75.00       100.00        175.00
Over 100'0"               75.001      100.001    -
 
Notes:
   1.   Plus necessary and appropriate administrative, engineering and road
damage fees.
If a vehicle requires a permit due to multiple weight and/or dimensions issues,
the total fee will be based on the largest individual weight or dimension
factor only.
   E.   Permit Carried In Vehicle: Every such permit issued shall be carried in
the vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to
inspection by any police officer of the village.
   F.   Locations Where Permit Is Not Valid: The permit is not valid on any
highway or bridge posted for a load limit less than the gross weight of the
move, on any highway closed to traffic, and on any highway not under the
jurisdiction of the village; provided, however, that whenever a vehicle is
operating pursuant to a permit issued hereunder for excess width or length,
such vehicle may be moved upon a state highway for a distance not to exceed
one-half (1/2) mile without a permit for the purpose of crossing the state
highway.
   G.   Weighing Vehicles; Removal Of Excess Load:
      1.   Any village police officer having reason to believe that the weight
of a vehicle and load is unlawful shall require the driver to stop and submit
to a weighing of the same either by means of portable or stationary scales. If
such scales are not available to the place where such vehicle is stopped, the
police officer shall require that such vehicle be driven to the nearest
available scale that has been tested and approved by the Illinois department of
agriculture.
      2.   Whenever a village police officer, upon weighing of vehicle and
load, determines that the weight is unlawful, such officer shall require the
driver to stop the vehicle at a suitable place and remain standing until such
portion of the load is removed as may be necessary to reduce the weight of the
vehicle to the limit permitted under this title or to the limit permitted under
the terms of a permit issued pursuant to subsection A of this section and shall
forthwith arrest the owner, operator, lessee or driver thereof. All material so
unloaded shall be cared for by the owner or operator of the vehicle at the risk
of such owner or operator. (Ord. 2005-35, 5-19-2005)
6-8A-6: TOWED VEHICLES:
   A.   When one vehicle is towing another, the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed thereby and the
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') from one
vehicle to the other, except for the connection between any two (2) vehicles
transporting poles, pipes, machinery or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
   B.   Outside a business, residential or suburban district or on any
controlled access highway, no vehicle other than a pole trailer or a
semitrailer which is being towed by a truck tractor and is connected by the
means of a fifth wheel shall be towed on a roadway except by a drawbar and each
such vehicle so towed shall, in addition, be coupled with two (2) safety chains
or cables to the towing vehicle. Such chains or cables shall be of sufficient
size and strength to prevent the towed vehicle parting from the drawing vehicle
in case the drawbar should break or become disengaged.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any second division
vehicle owned, operated or controlled by any person who is registered with the
bureau of motor carrier safety of the federal highway administration and has
complied with the federal safety provisions of the bureau of motor carrier
safety of the federal highway administration and the rules and regulations of
the bureau. (Ord. 2005-35, 5-19-2005)
6-8A-7: PROTECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Planking Edge Of A Pavement: No tractor, traction engine or other metal
tired vehicle weighing more than four (4) tons, including the weight of the
vehicle and its load, shall drive up onto, off or over the edge of any paved
public highway in this village without protecting such edge by putting down
solid planks or other suitable device to prevent such vehicle from breaking off
the edges or corners of such pavement.
   B.   Spilling Loads:
      1.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless such
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom; except, that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such
roadway.
      2.   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless said load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
said covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard
to other users of the highway.
   C.   Restricting Right To Use Highways: Whenever a highway or street over
which the village has jurisdiction shall have become deteriorated, or by reason
of rain, snow, ice or other climatic condition, is likely to be seriously
damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited or the
permissible weights thereof reduced, the mayor and board of trustees may, by
resolution or ordinance, and for a period of not exceeding one hundred eighty
(180) days, prohibit the use of such street or define the maximum load that may
be carried thereon.
The mayor and board of trustees upon passing such ordinance or resolution shall
erect or cause to be erected and maintained signs designating the provision of
the ordinance or resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected
thereby, and the ordinance or resolution shall not be effective unless and
until such signs are erected and maintained. (Ord. 2005-35, 5-19-2005)
6-8A-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES 1 :
   A.   Penalties:
      1.   Violation Of Permit: Whenever any vehicle is operated or movement
made in violation of a permit issued pursuant to section
6-8A-5 of this article, the permittee or the driver of such vehicle, is guilty
of such violation and either, but not both, persons may be prosecuted. Any
person, firm or corporation convicted of such violation shall be fined for the
first offense, not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) and, for the second offense by the same person, firm or
corporation within a period of one year, not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) and, for the third
offense by the same person, firm or corporation within a period of one year
after the date of the first offense, not less than three hundred dollars
($300.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and the director of
public works shall not issue permits to the person, firm or corporation
convicted of a third offense during a period of one year after the date of
conviction for such third offense.
      2.   Additional Penalties For Permit Moves: In addition to the penalty
set forth in subsection A1 of this section, the following penalties shall
apply:
         a.   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions
of a permit issued under section
6-8A-5 of this article by operating under a fraudulent permit or under a permit
not specifically covering the move, the owner, operator or lessee of such
vehicle shall be deemed guilty of a business offense and either the owner,
operator or lessee of such vehicle may be prosecuted for such violation. When
any person is convicted of such violation, the permit shall be null and void
and such owner, operator or lessee shall be fined in an amount not less than
ten cents ($0.10) per pound for each pound the gross weight of the vehicle
exceeds the gross weight of such vehicles' allowable under section
6-8A-5 of this article.
         b.   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions
of a permit issued under section
6-8A-5 of this article by operating with axle weights in excess of those
authorized in such permit, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed
guilty of a business offense and either the owner or the driver of such vehicle
may be prosecuted for such violation. Any person, firm or corporation convicted
of such violation shall be fined in an amount not less than two cents ($0.02)
nor more than five cents ($0.05) per pound for each pound of excess weight on
such axle or tandem axle in excess of the weight authorized in the permit when
the excess is one thousand (1,000) pounds or less; not less than five cents
($0.05) nor more than ten cents ($0.10) per pound for each pound of excess
weight when the excess exceeds one thousand (1,000) pounds and is two thousand
(2,000) pounds or less; not less than ten cents ($0.10) nor more than fifteen
cents ($0.15) per pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds
two thousand (2,000) pounds and is three thousand (3,000) pounds or less; and
not less than fifteen cents ($0.15) nor more than twenty cents ($0.20) per
pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds three thousand
(3,000) pounds.
         c.   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions
of a permit issued under section
6-8A-5 of this article by operating with a gross weight in excess of that
authorized in such permit, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed
guilty of a business offense and either the owner or the driver of such vehicle
may be prosecuted for such violation. Any person, firm or corporation convicted
of such violation shall be fined in an amount not less than two cents ($0.02)
nor more than five cents ($0.05) per pound for each pound of excess weight in
excess of the gross weight authorized in the permit when the excess is one
thousand (1,000) pounds or less; not less than four cents ($0.04) nor more than
seven cents ($0.07) per pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess
exceeds one thousand (1,000) pounds and is two thousand (2,000) pounds or less;
not less than seven cents ($0.07) nor more than ten cents ($0.10) per pound for
each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds two thousand (2,000) pounds
and is three thousand (3,000) pounds or less; and not less than ten cents
($0.10) nor more than fifteen cents ($0.15) per pound for each pound of excess
weight when the excess exceeds three thousand (3,000) pounds and is four
thousand (4,000) pounds or less; not less than fifteen cents ($0.15) nor more
than twenty cents ($0.20) per pound for each pound of excess weight when the
excess exceeds four thousand (4,000) pounds and is five thousand (5,000) pounds
or less; and not less than seventeen cents ($0.17) nor more than twenty five
cents ($0.25) per pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds
five thousand (5,000) pounds.
      3.   Failure To Obtain Permit: Whenever any vehicle is operated in
violation of the weight limits set forth in section
6-8A-4 of this article, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed
guilty of such violation and either the owner or the driver of such vehicle may
be prosecuted for such violation. Any person, firm or corporation convicted of
any such violation shall be fined according to the following schedule:
Pounds Overweight Fine
Pounds Overweight         Fine
 
Up to and including 2,000 $ 50.00
From 2,001 through 2,500  135.00
From 2,501 through 3,000  165.00
From 3,001 through 3,500  260.00
From 3,501 through 4,000  300.00
From 4,001 through 4,500  425.00
From 4,501 through 5,000  475.00
 
From 5,001 or more pounds overweight the fine shall be computed by assessing
$750.00 for the first 5,000 pounds overweight and $75.00 for each additional
increment of 500 pounds overweight or fraction thereof.
In addition any person, firm or corporation convicted of four (4) or more
violations of section
6-8A-4 of this article within any twelve (12) month period shall be fined an
additional amount of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for the
fourth and each subsequent conviction within the twelve (12) month period;
provided, however, that with regard to a firm or corporation, a fourth or
subsequent conviction shall mean a fourth or subsequent conviction attributable
to any one employee-driver.
      4.   Violation Of Width, Height Or Length Limitations: Whenever any
vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions with respect to width,
height or length limitations set forth in section
6-8A-1, subsection 6-8A-2A or 6-8A-3A of this article, the owner or driver of
such vehicle shall be deemed guilty of such violation and either may be
prosecuted for such violation. Any person, firm or corporation convicted of any
violation thereof shall be fined for the first or second conviction an amount
equal to not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00), and for the third and subsequent convictions by the same
person, firm or corporation within a period of one year after the date of the
first offense, not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      5.   Fraudulent Permit: Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of
the provisions of a permit issued under section
6-8A-5 of this article by operating under a fraudulent permit, the permit shall
be void, and the person, firm or corporation to whom such permit was granted,
the driver of such vehicle in addition to the person who issued such permit and
any accessory, shall be guilty of fraud and either one or all persons may be
prosecuted for such violation. Any person, firm or corporation committing such
violation shall be guilty of a class 4 felony and the director of public works
shall not issue permits to the person, firm or corporation convicted of such
violation for a period of one year after the date of conviction. Penalties
imposed under this section shall be in addition to any penalties imposed for
other violations of this article.
      6.   Violation Of Load Spilling: Any person charged with a violation of
subsection 6-8A-7B of this article may, in lieu of prosecution for a violation
thereof, make payment in accordance with section
1-4-2 of this code.
      7.   Fine: To the extent not otherwise specified above, in addition to
other remedies the village may seek, an owner, operator or lessee found guilty
of a violation of any provision of this article shall be subject to a seven
hundred fifty dollar ($750.00) fine.
   B.   Refusal To Submit To Weighing And/Or Permit Inspection: It shall be
unlawful for any driver of a vehicle to refuse to stop and submit his vehicle
and load to weighing after being directed to do so by an officer; refuse to
allow a permit to be inspected; or remove or cause the removal of the load or
any part of it prior to weighing.
   C.   Bail Schedule:
      1.   Persons charged with a violation of section
6-8A-5 of this article shall post cash bail with the village in an amount equal
to the amount of the minimum fine fixed by subsection A of this section plus
costs. When the bail for any offense hereunder does not exceed two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00), the accused may, at his option, deposit a truck bond
certificate in lieu of bail.
      2.   Persons charged with refusing to allow a permit to be inspected and/
or refusing to stop and submit a vehicle and load to weighing after being
directed to do so by a village police officer or removing all or part of his
load prior to weighing in shall post bail in the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   D.   Liability For Damage Caused By Excess Weight: Any person driving any
vehicle, object or contrivance upon any highway, street, highway structure or
improvement shall be liable for all damage which said highway or structure may
sustain as a result of any illegal operation, driving or moving of such
vehicle, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum weight herein
provided, but authorized by a special permit.
Whenever such driver is not the owner of such vehicle, object or contrivance,
but is so operating, driving or moving the same with the express or implied
permission of the owner, then the owner and driver shall be jointly and
severally liable for any such damage.
Such damage may be recovered in a civil action brought by the village. (Ord.
2005-35, 5-19-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-2-9 of this title.
CHAPTER 9
BICYCLES 1
SECTION:
6-9-1: Operation of Bicycles
6-9-2: Bicycle Equipment
6-9-3: Parental Responsibility for Minors
6-9-4: Settlement of Violation
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  6-2-1 of this Title for definition of "bicycle".
6-9-1: OPERATION OF BICYCLES:
The following regulations apply to the operation of all bicycles within the
limits of the Village:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: Every person operating a bicycle within the
Village shall do so in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this
Chapter.
   B.   Obedience to Traffic-Control Devices: Any person operating a bicycle
shall obey the instructions of official traffic signals, signs and other
control devices applicable unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   C.   Turning Movements: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle
shall disobey the direction of any such sign, except where such person
dismounts from the bicycle to make such turn, in which event such person shall
then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians. (1976 Code §19-267)
   D.   Riding on Bicycles:
      1.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than on or
astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto. (1976 Code §19-267;
1991 Code)
      2.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped. (1976 Code §19-267)
   E.   Speed Restrictions: No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   F.   Duty to Ride to the Right: Every person operating a bicycle upon a
roadway shall ride as near to the right-hand side of the roadway as
practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one
proceeding in the same direction.
   G.   Emerging from Alley, Driveway or Building: The operator of a bicycle
emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk
or the sidewalk area extending across an alleyway, yield the right of way to
all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area and upon entering
the roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
   H.   Parking Bicycles: No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other
than upon the roadway against the curb, upon a sidewalk in a rack to support
the bicycle, against a building or at the curb in such manner as to afford the
least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
   I.   Clinging to Vehicles: No person riding upon any bicycle shall attach
the bicycle or himself to any streetcar or vehicle upon a roadway.
   J.   Riding on Sidewalks:
      1.   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
      2.   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person
shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
   K.   Riding Abreast: Persons operating bicycles upon a roadway shall not
ride abreast but shall ride in a single file.
   L.   Carrying Packages, Bundles, Etc.: No person operating a bicycle shall
carry any package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping both
hands upon the handlebars. (1976 Code §19-267)
6-9-2: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Required Equipment:
      1.   Lights and Reflectors: Every bicycle when in use at night shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type approved by the Department of Transportation of
Illinois which shall be visible from all distances from one hundred feet (100')
to six hundred feet (600') to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from
a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to
the red reflector.
      2.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will
adequately control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle. (1976 Code §19-
206)
   B.   Siren Prohibited: A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any
person use upon a bicycle any siren. (1976 Code §§19-206, 19-218)
6-9-3: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR MINORS:
The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter 1 . (1976 Code §19-270)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-7A-2 of this code.
6-9-4: SETTLEMENT OF VIOLATION:
Any person violating any section of this chapter may, in lieu of prosecution
for violation hereof, make payment in accordance with section
1-4-2 of this code. (1976 Code §19-271; amd. 1991 Code)
CHAPTER 10
ABANDONED, WRECKED, STOLEN VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-10-1: Definitions
6-10-2: Abandonment Of Vehicles
6-10-3: Penalty
6-10-4: Police To Be Notified Of Vehicle Possession
6-10-5: Removal Of Abandoned Or Wrecked Vehicle
6-10-6: Unknown Owner Of Towed Vehicle; Procedure
6-10-7: Pretow Notice For Abandoned Vehicles
6-10-8: Pretow Hearing Procedures For Abandoned Vehicles
6-10-9: Posttow Notice For Hazardous Vehicles
6-10-10: Posttow Hearing Procedures
6-10-11: Disposition Of Unclaimed Vehicle
6-10-12: Nonliability Of Village And Towing Service
6-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall be defined as
follows:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: All vehicles in a state of disrepair which renders the
vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or any motor vehicle or
other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven (7) consecutive days or
more and is apparently deserted.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: Any vehicle twenty five (25) years of age or older.
HAZARDOUS VEHICLE:
   A.   A vehicle that has been involved in an accident and is disabled or
cannot be immediately moved by the owner or operator of the vehicle to a
nonhazardous location; or
   B.   A vehicle that presents an immediate danger to the health or welfare of
the members of the public; or
   C.   A vehicle abandoned or disabled on a highway that is impeding the
orderly flow of traffic or poses a potential danger to pedestrians and other
operators of vehicles either by its location, condition or appearance; or
   D.   A vehicle that must be moved to allow for proper municipal snow removal
from a highway.
HIGHWAY: Any street, alley or public way within the village.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street, highway or any public way, except
devices moved by human power, devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or
tracks, and snowmobiles. (Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
6-10-2: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Abandonment On Public Ways: The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other
vehicle or any part thereof on any highway in the village is unlawful and
subject to penalties as set forth herein.
   B.   Abandonment On Public Or Private Property: The abandonment of a motor
vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on private or public property,
other than a highway, in view of the general public anywhere in the village is
unlawful except on property of the owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A
motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on private
property may be authorized for removal by or upon the order of the chief of
police or his or her designee after a waiting period of seven (7) days or more
has expired. (Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
6-10-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates or aids and abets in the violation of section
6-10-2 of this chapter is guilty of a petty offense, consistent with 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-214, as amended; and
   A.   Shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) or more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00); and
   B.   Shall be required by the court to make a disposition on the abandoned
or unclaimed vehicle. (Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
6-10-4: POLICE TO BE NOTIFIED OF VEHICLE POSSESSION:
When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in the village and
that person is not the owner of the vehicle, then that person shall immediately
notify the village police department when the vehicle is within the corporate
limits of the village. Upon receipt of such notification, the chief of police
or his or her designee shall authorize a towing service to remove and take
possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle. The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its
contents, maintain a record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the
owner or any other person legally entitled to possession thereof or until it is
disposed of as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-
2014)
6-10-5: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED OR WRECKED VEHICLE:
   A.   Authority:
      1.   Abandoned Vehicles: When a vehicle is abandoned on a highway in the
village ten (10) hours or more, its removal by towing service may be authorized
by order of the chief of police or his or her designee; provided, however, that
an abandoned vehicle may be towed only after the mailing or personal delivery
of prior notice and providing an opportunity for a hearing as set forth in
section
6-10-8 of this chapter.
      2.   Hazardous Vehicles: The immediate removal from the highway by a
towing service may be authorized by order of the chief of police or his or her
designee. The opportunity for a posttow hearing shall be provided as set forth
in section
6-10-10 of this chapter.
   B.   Removal Costs: When a vehicle removed from either public or private
property is authorized by order of the chief of police or his or her designee,
the owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all towing and storage costs.
   C.   Records Kept: When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be
towed away, the police department shall keep and maintain a record of the
vehicle towed, listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade
name, manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow. (Ord. 2014-
45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
6-10-6: UNKNOWN OWNER OF TOWED VEHICLE; PROCEDURE:
   A.   When the village police department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other person legally entitled to the vehicle, it will cause
the motor vehicle registration records of the state of Illinois to be searched
by a directed communication to the secretary of state for the purpose of
obtaining the required ownership information.
   B.   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of this state or from the registration files of a foreign
state, if applicable, the police department shall notify the Illinois state
police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person
legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by
the Illinois state police will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement
agency having custody of the vehicle for notification of owner.
   C.   The police department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
Illinois state police to be searched by a directed communication to the
Illinois state police for a stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When
the Illinois state police files are searched with negative results, the
information contained in the national crime information center (NCIC) files
will be searched by the Illinois state police. The information determined from
these record searches will be used by the police department in sending a
notification by certified mail to the owner or legally entitled person advising
where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth
hearing and public sale information.
   D.   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the police department due to the
addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required. (Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
6-10-7: PRETOW NOTICE FOR ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   A.   Notice pursuant to this section shall be personally delivered to the
owner or shall be forwarded by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, to the address of the owner of the vehicle. The notice shall include
a description of the vehicle, the license plate and vehicle identification
number (VIN), if available and legible, and notice that a hearing as to the
propriety of the towing will be granted, if requested within seven (7) days of
the date of mailing or personal delivery of the notice.
   B.   A "notice of intent to tow" sticker with the earliest date upon which
the tow may take place and the address and phone number of the police
department shall be placed on the vehicle. (Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-
2014)
6-10-8: PRETOW HEARING PROCEDURES FOR ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   A.   Opportunity For Hearing: The owner or person entitled to possession of
a vehicle to be towed as an abandoned vehicle shall have seven (7) days after
the date of mailing or personal delivery of the notice to request, in writing,
a pretow hearing. If the owner has not filed a written hearing request within
the seven (7) day period, any hearing rights under the provisions of this
chapter will be deemed waived and the vehicle may be towed.
   B.   Scheduling Of Pretow Hearings: The pretow hearing shall be scheduled
for a date within fifteen (15) days of the mailing or personal delivery of the
pretow notice. The village shall not be required to delay towing longer than
such fifteen (15) day period.
   C.   Request For Pretow Hearings: Request for a pretow hearing may be made
in person or by mail as indicated on the notice. Forms for such requests shall
be made available at the police department. The owner shall be provided a
hearing date and time by mail or in person as the circumstances require.
   D.   Appointment Of Hearing Officer: The village administrator shall choose
an officer or employee of the village to serve as hearing officer. In no case
shall that hearing officer be an individual who was involved in the initial
decision to tow the vehicle. The hearing officer shall have the authority to
require the presence of the enforcement officer who initiated the proposed tow
or any other village personnel.
   E.   Nature Of Hearing: The hearing shall be informal in nature, and the
rules of evidence shall not apply. The hearing will not be determinative of, or
adjudicate, any citation relative to any vehicle. After receiving all relevant
evidence, the hearing officer shall make a written decision based upon a
preponderance of the evidence as to whether towing of the vehicle is authorized
by the laws of the state or the ordinances of the village, with a specific
statutory or ordinance section cited in the decision. The owner shall be
provided a copy of such pretow hearing decision.
   F.   Decision To Tow: If the preponderance of the evidence supports towing
and compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the hearing officer shall
direct that vehicle be towed, with any towing and storage costs to then be
imposed upon the owner thereof. The owner of said vehicle having had such
hearing may avoid the towing by immediately removing the vehicle from the
improper location to a proper, lawful location and correcting any unlawful
condition of the vehicle.
   G.   Decision Not To Tow: If the preponderance of the evidence fails to
support towing of the vehicle, the hearing officer shall direct that the
vehicle shall not be towed. The hearing officer shall furnish a copy of such
decision to the owner, who may place it inside the vehicle in a location
plainly visible from the outside, such as the dashboard or rear window. No
vehicle about which such a decision has been rendered shall be towed by the
village unless the circumstances under which the decision was rendered have
changed. If at some subsequent time the village should wish to tow the vehicle
from the same location, it shall follow the same procedures required for the
towing of any other similarly situated vehicle.
   H.   Reports And Documents To Be Retained; Contesting Decisions: Originals
or copies of all notices, pretow hearing decisions, towing reports, and any
associated police reports or documents shall be retained by the police
department for a period of at least five (5) years after each hearing, or after
each tow if no hearing was requested or held. The village or the owner may
contest the decision of the hearing officer in any manner provided by law.
(Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
6-10-9: POSTTOW NOTICE FOR HAZARDOUS VEHICLES:
   A.   Mailing Or Delivery Of Notice: Notice pursuant to this section shall be
forwarded by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the
address of the owner of the vehicle. Notification shall be sent no later than
ten (10) business days after the date the police department impounds or
authorizes the impounding of a vehicle, provided that if the police department
is unable to determine the identity of the registered owner, lienholder or
other person legally entitled to ownership of the impounded vehicle within a
ten (10) business day period after impoundment, then notification shall be sent
no later than two (2) days after the date the identity of the registered owner,
lienholder or other person legally entitled to ownership of the impounded
vehicle is determined.
   B.   Notice Of Vehicle Release Requirements And Hearing Rights Of Towed
Vehicles: Information indicating the opportunity and procedures for a hearing
to contest the validity of a towed vehicle shall be printed on the back of the
invoice.
   C.   Requests For Posttow Hearings: Requests for hearings may be made in
person or by mail to the office indicated on the notice and the back of the
invoice within fifteen (15) days of the mailing or personal delivery of the
notification of tow, or release of the vehicle, whichever occurs first;
otherwise, the right to a hearing shall be deemed waived.
   D.   Release Of Motor Vehicles: Before the owner or other person entitled to
possession of any impounded vehicle shall be permitted to remove same, that
person shall furnish evidence of his identity, proof of ownership, or his right
to possession, sign a receipt for the vehicle, and pay the amount owed for
towing and storage fees to the towing service operator unless the hearing
officer finds that the vehicle should not have been towed. (Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-
2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
6-10-10: POSTTOW HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Opportunity For Hearing: The owner of a vehicle towed as an immediate
tow, by or pursuant to the authority of the police department as set forth
herein, shall be provided the opportunity for a posttow hearing to determine
the validity of such tow. The hearing will not be determinative of, or
adjudicate, any citation issued relative to any towed vehicle.
   B.   Appointment Of Hearing Officer And Nature Of The Hearing: The nature of
the hearing and the appointment of the hearing officer shall be the same as set
forth in section
6-10-8 of this chapter.
   C.   Conduct Of Posttow Hearings: The hearing officer shall review all
evidence presented by the vehicle owner and the police department or other
village employees, and shall make a finding in writing based upon the
preponderance of the evidence presented, as to the lawful authority for the
towing and storage of the vehicle.
   D.   Posttow Hearing Decision: For each hearing, the hearing officer shall
complete a posttow hearing decision and attach such decision to the police
department's original vehicle towing report, and supply a copy of the decision
to the owner by personal delivery if the owner is present, otherwise by mail
within seven (7) days of the hearing.
   E.   Decision To Tow Justified: If the preponderance of the evidence
supports towing and compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the hearing
officer shall direct that the tow was justified and towing and storage costs be
imposed upon the owner thereof.
   F.   Decision To Tow Unjustified: If the preponderance of the evidence fails
to support towing of the vehicle then the hearing officer may find the village
responsible for towing and storage fees.
   G.   Reports And Documents To Be Retained; Contesting Decisions: All
originals or copies of the notices, posttow hearing decisions, towing reports,
and any associated police reports or documents shall be retained by the police
department for a period of at least five (5) years after each hearing, or after
each tow if no hearing was requested or held. The village or the owner may
contest the decision of the hearing officer in any manner provided by law.
(Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
6-10-11: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE:
   A.   Owner Notified, Public Sale: When the identity of the registered owner
or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or
unclaimed vehicle of seven (7) years of age or newer cannot be determined by
any means provided for in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided
herein or disposed of in the manner authorized by this chapter without notice
to the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of
the vehicle.
   B.   Sale Of Vehicle: Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor
vehicle or other vehicle seven (7) years of age or newer remains unclaimed by
the registered owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a
period of thirty (30) days after notice has been given as provided herein, the
police department having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at
public sale to the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale
shall be posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the
sale on the premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten (10)
days prior to the sale, the police department shall cause a notice of the time
and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner or
other person known by the police department or towing service to be legally
entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete
description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any
legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
   C.   Disposal Of Vehicle As Junk: When an abandoned vehicle of more than
seven (7) years of age is impounded as specified by this chapter, it will be
kept in custody for a minimum of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining
ownership, the contacting of the registered owner by the United States mail,
public service or in person for a determination of disposition; and, an
examination of the Illinois state police stolen motor vehicles files for theft
and wanted information. At the expiration of the ten (10) day period, without
the benefit of disposition information being received from the registered
owner, the chief of police or his or her designee will authorize the disposal
of the vehicle as junk only.
A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is excluded
from this subsection.
   D.   Record Of Sale Or Disposal: When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in
the custody of the police department is reclaimed by the registered owner or
other legally entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or
otherwise disposed of as provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction
will be maintained by the police department for a period of one year from the
date of the sale or disposal.
   E.   Proceeds Of Sale: When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of
the village is authorized to be towed away by the chief of police and disposed
of as set forth in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition
after the deduction of towing, storage and processing charges shall be
deposited in the general fund of the municipal treasury. (Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-
2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
6-10-12: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE AND TOWING SERVICE:
Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner or his legal representative or any other person
legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle when the
vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
CHAPTER 11
TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT OF UNLAWFUL VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-11-1: Definitions
6-11-2: Towing Of Unlawful Vehicles
6-11-3: Procedures For Seizure, Tow And Impoundment
6-11-4: Administrative Hearing
6-11-5: Unclaimed Vehicles
6-11-6: Chronic Parking Violator
6-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall be defined as
follows:
HEARING OFFICER: An attorney licensed to practice law in the state of Illinois
for a minimum of three (3) years, designated by the village administrator to
serve as the hearing officer in regard to hearings held pursuant to this
chapter.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street, highway or any public way, except
devices moved by human power, devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or
tracks, and snowmobiles.
UNLAWFUL VEHICLE:
   A.   A vehicle that is the subject of a search and seizure by the police
department.
   B.   A vehicle towed incident to arrest.
   C.   A vehicle that is used in connection with any of the following:
      1.   Commission or attempted commission of an offense for which a motor
vehicle is subject to seizure and forfeiture pursuant to 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/36-1 or 36.5-5;
      2.   Commission or attempted commission of an offense for which a motor
vehicle is subject to seizure and forfeiture pursuant to the narcotics profit
forfeiture act 1 ;
      3.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501;
      4.   The commission of, or attempted commission of an offense in
violation of the cannabis control act 2 ;
      5.   The commission of, or attempted commission of, an offense in
violation of the Illinois controlled substances act 3 ;
      6.   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-303, unless the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or
moving) or due to failure to comply with emission testing;
      7.   Soliciting, possessing, or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis
or a controlled substance, as defined by the cannabis control act or the
Illinois controlled substances act;
      8.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's
license, in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101, if the period
of expiration is greater than one year;
      9.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver's license or permit, in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
6-101, or operation of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit due to a person's age;
      10.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101, 6-303
or 11-501;
      11.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-503 while the vehicle is part of a funeral procession or
in a manner that interferes with a funeral procession;
      12.   The commission of, or attempted commission of, any misdemeanor or
felony offense in violation of the criminal code of 2012 4 , or any
corresponding violation of this code; or
      13.   A vehicle where the registered owner is a Chronic Parking Violator,
as defined in Section
6-11-6 herein.
      14.   Any other violation described in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-208.7(b). (Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-2014; amd. Ord. 2021-2, 1-21-
2021)
 
Notes
1 1. 725 ILCS 175/1 et seq.
2 1. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
3 2. 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.
4 3. 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
6-11-2: TOWING OF UNLAWFUL VEHICLES:
   A.   The police department is authorized to seize, tow and impound any
unlawful vehicle pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this
chapter.
   B.   The owner of an unlawful vehicle that has been seized, towed and
impounded shall be civilly liable to the village for an administrative fee of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), except for vehicles impounded pursuant to
720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/36-1, 36.5-5, or the narcotics profit
forfeiture act, in which case the administrative fee shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00). The owner of an unlawful vehicle is also liable to the tow
operator for towing and storage fees.
For vehicles impounded pursuant to 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/36-1, 36.5-
5, or the narcotics profit forfeiture act, if the state's attorney of the
applicable county files a forfeiture action, the hearing and administrative fee
provisions of this chapter shall be inapplicable and the vehicle shall be held
pending the completion of the forfeiture action. If, however, the state's
attorney declines to pursue a forfeiture action, the hearing and administrative
fee provisions of this chapter shall apply.
   C.   An administrative hearing to determine whether the seizure, tow and
impoundment are appropriate shall be scheduled within forty five (45) days.
(Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
6-11-3: PROCEDURES FOR SEIZURE, TOW AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle
is an "unlawful vehicle", as defined in this chapter, the police officer may
authorize the towing of the vehicle to a facility authorized by the village.
Said vehicle shall be impounded pending the completion of the hearing provided
for herein, unless the owner of the vehicle posts with the village a cash bond
equivalent to the applicable civil liability, as set forth above, to secure the
release of the vehicle and pays the towing and storage fees. Vehicles that are
held as evidence or subject to article 36 or 36.5 of the Illinois criminal code
or narcotics forfeiture act may not be released upon posting of bond.
   B.   The village shall provide written notice, via personal service or
certified mail, within ten (10) days of the seizure, tow and impoundment to the
owner or lessee of the unlawful vehicle as registered with the Illinois
secretary of state, or other state driver's license authority, as well as any
lienholder of record. If the unlawful vehicle is not registered with the
secretary of state, notice shall be sent to the most recent owner of record at
the most recent address by first class mail. The notice shall state the
following:
      1.   A description of the unlawful vehicle, the date the vehicle was
seized, towed and impounded, the reason(s) therefor, and the location of the
impounded vehicle.
      2.   The date, time and location of the administrative hearing.
      3.   That the failure to appear at a hearing shall result in a finding of
liability to the village for the applicable administrative fee.
      4.   If applicable, that the unlawful vehicle may be released upon the
owner posting the applicable bond with the village. (Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014,
eff. 9-1-2014)
6-11-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   A hearing on the lawfulness of the impoundment shall be conducted by a
hearing officer no later than forty five (45) days after the date of the
mailing of the notice of hearing.
   B.   All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the hearing. Persons appearing at the hearing may be represented by
counsel at their expense.
   C.   Any sworn or affirmed report prepared in the performance of a law
enforcement officer's duties that sufficiently describes the circumstances
leading to the seizure, tow and impoundment shall be admissible prima facie
evidence of probable cause and the vehicle owner's liability, unless rebutted
by clear and convincing evidence.
   D.   The hearing shall be recorded. The formal rules of evidence shall not
apply at said hearing, and hearsay evidence shall be allowed and admissible.
The hearing officer is empowered to administer oaths and to secure by subpoena
both the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of relevant
books and papers.
   E.   If after the hearing, the hearing officer determines, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that the vehicle was subject to seizure, tow and
impoundment under this chapter, the hearing officer shall enter an order
finding the owner of the vehicle civilly liable to the village for the
administrative fee. Any cash bond posted to secure the release of the vehicle
shall be applied to the fee.
   F.   If after the hearing, the hearing officer finds that there was no
probable cause to determine the vehicle was subject to seizure, tow and
impoundment, the owner may secure the release of the vehicle without the
payment of any tow or storage fees or administrative fee.
   G.   If the owner fails to appear at the hearing, the hearing officer may
enter a default order for the amount of the administrative fee against the
owner.
   H.   Any vehicle still impounded after the administrative hearing may not be
released without payment of the applicable administrative fee.
   I.   All final decisions of the hearing officer shall be subject to review
under the provisions of the administrative review law 1 .
   J.   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any administrative
fee imposed hereunder which remains unpaid in whole or in part after the
expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review under the administrative
review law may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court
of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
6-11-5: UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
Vehicles not retrieved from the towing or storage facility within thirty five
(35) days after the hearing officer issues a written decision shall be deemed
abandoned and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 et seq. (Ord. 2014-45, 7-24-2014, eff. 9-1-2014)
6-11-6: CHRONIC PARKING VIOLATOR:
   A.   Definition: “Chronic Parking Violator” is the registered owner of any
vehicle which has accumulated five (5) or more parking violations in the
Village, within a single calendar year.
   B.   Authorization To Cause Towing: The Chief of Police of the Village is
hereby authorized to cause a towing service to remove and take possession of
any vehicle owned by and/or registered to a “Chronic Parking Violator”, as
defined above, which is currently illegally parked.
   C.   Written Notice: Prior to removal of any vehicle pursuant to the
Section, the Village shall send written notice to each registered owner by U.S.
mail notifying him or her that their vehicle is subject to removal by the
Police Department if such vehicle is cited for a subsequent parking violation.
The notification will be sent at least five (5) days prior to any vehicle being
towed.
   D.   Release of Vehicle: The owner of a vehicle towed for Chronic Parking
Violator status may secure release of the vehicle by paying all unpaid fines,
administrative fees, towing charges, and storage fees.
   E.   Post-Tow Administrative Hearing: Vehicles towed under this Section
shall be entitled to a post-tow Administrative Hearing process established for
vehicles seized, towed and impounded in Section
6-11-4 herein. (Ord. 2021-2, 1-21-2021)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Deposits On Public Ways
7-1-2: Public Improvements; Work In Or On Public Property, Rights-Of-Way,
Thoroughfares Or Easements For Public Use; Access To Public Rights-Of-Way
7-1-3: Excavations
7-1-4: Settlement Of Violation
7-1-5: Placement Of Facilities Within Public Ways
7-1-6: Mailboxes In Public Right-Of-Way
7-1-7: Small Wireless Facilities
7-1-1: DEPOSITS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Harmful Deposits:
      1.   Harmful Deposits Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
deposit on any street, sidewalk, bike path or public right-of-way any dirt,
clay, black dirt, sand, gravel, cement, brick, rubbish, refuse or waste
material of any kind, or any material or thing which might cause injury to
persons, animals or vehicles. (Ord. 2004-30, 5-20-2004)
      2.   Permit For Certain Deposits: The Department of Public Works, upon
proper application, may issue a permit to any person allowing the deposit of
rubbish or waste material upon a Village street when said deposit is necessary
for the purpose of excavation or filling operations. Said permit shall be for a
definite period of time, and at the end of the specified period of time, the
street or streets shall be cleaned and kept clean to the satisfaction of the
Department of Public Works.
      3.   Administration Of Provisions: The Police Department, in consultation
with the Department of Public Works, is hereby authorized to administer this
subsection and in the case of hauling and excavation work, they are empowered
to close down the work unless the streets are cleaned and kept clean to the
satisfaction of the Director of Public Works throughout the duration of the
operation. (1976 Code §15-2; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 2011-21, 5-12-2011)
   B.   Snow Deposits: It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalks
or public streets any snow which accumulates upon and is removed from any
adjacent private property or from the area between the adjacent lot line and
curb line of the street. (1976 Code §15-3)
7-1-2: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS; WORK IN OR ON PUBLIC PROPERTY, RIGHTS-OF-WAY,
THOROUGHFARES OR EASEMENTS FOR PUBLIC USE; ACCESS TO PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: Any person proposing to do any form or type of work
within public property, rights-of-way, thoroughfares or easements for public
use shall obtain a permit from the Village.
      2.   Issuance Of Permit: Permits required by this section shall be issued
by the Director of Public Works or the Village Engineer.
      3.   Contents Of Permit: Permits required by this section shall include
information as to type, location and extent of improvement, construction or
repair intended, including necessary restoration, and any such other
information as may be required by the Director of Public Works or the Village
Engineer.
      4.   Insurance And Indemnification: Prior to issuance of any such permit,
the permittee shall provide evidence of insurance, naming the Village, its
officers and employees, as additional insureds, in a form and in such amounts
as are acceptable to the Village. In the event that permittee does not provide
such insurance to protect the contractors and subcontractors performing the
work, then such contractors and subcontractors shall comply with the insurance
requirements set forth in this title. Further, the permittee shall execute an
indemnification agreement in a form acceptable to the Village.
   B.   Improvement Specifications: All work within public property, rights-of-
way, thoroughfares or easements for public use shall be in a true and
workmanlike manner in accordance with the ordinances of the Village and
applicable State law, and, when required, plans and specifications approved by
the Village Engineer. (Ord. 2007-48, 9-6-2007)
When a concrete repair or replacement of a curb is performed, the top of the
curb shall be stamped, while the concrete is curing to prevent damage to the
integrity of the concrete, with an "S" at all sanitary service crossings and
shall be stamped with a "W" at all water service crossings. (Ord. 2017-58, 10-
5-2017)
   C.   Access To Public Rights-Of-Way: When any person proposes to access any
public right-of-way within the Village, that person shall be responsible for
improving such right-of-way adjacent to the property to be served by such
access in accordance with the standards established in title 10 of this Code.
If such right-of-way adjacent to the property to be served by such access has
been heretofore improved, the Village shall conduct a public hearing at the
time access is requested to determine the road improvement cost and/or level of
improvement that is specifically and uniquely attributable to the development
of the property and the amount of any reimbursement due the Village for such
preexisting improvement. The location, type and number(s) of access, and the
level of required improvements to such adjacent right-of-way shall be in
accordance with the standards established in title 10 of this Code and/or as
otherwise approved by the Village Engineer. All such access work shall be in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Village Engineer and a
permit shall be obtained as otherwise required by this section. As a condition
of obtaining such a permit, the applicant shall execute the Village's form of
improvement agreement and secure the completion of such work as provided for in
said improvement agreement.
   D.   Restoration Of Parkway Lawns:
      1.   Restoration Required: Whenever any such work shall be within the
parkway area and such parkway shall have previously been seeded and put to a
lawn, which lawn shall be fully established, it shall be the obligation of the
permittee herein to replace or restore the lawn upon completion of the work.
      2.   Bond: When it is the opinion of the director of public works or the
village engineer that the work for which a permit shall issue hereunder will
disturb or destroy such a lawn, then the permittee shall post a bond in the sum
of five hundred dollars ($500.00) in addition to the permit fee charged herein.
Such bond shall be promptly released to the permittee immediately upon
completion of the work and restoration of the lawn within the parkway and
inspection and approval by the director of public works.
   E.   Emergency Repairs: The permit requirements of this section shall not be
interpreted to require a permit prior to emergency repairs. The party
responsible for the emergency repair shall apply for a permit from the village
not more than seventy two (72) hours after the emergency repair is intended.
Any party initiating work within the above defined "public areas", found not to
be of an emergency nature, shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2007-48, 9-6-2007)
7-1-3: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Intent: It is the intent of this section to make it mandatory upon the
person doing the work to prevent any ditch or excavation from remaining open
for a long period of time while the work is in progress, in order that the
general public may be safeguarded against any hazardous conditions which would
be brought about by such work. (1976 Code §15-32)
   B.   Compliance With Provisions: Whenever any improvements such as water
mains, storm sewer drains or sanitary sewerage mains, or any excavation are to
be constructed, laid or made in public rights of way or upon private property,
the person doing the work shall comply with the requirements of this section.
(1976 Code §15-33)
   C.   Barricades, Safety Devices 1 : It shall be the duty of the person doing
the work to provide adequate and safe barricades or other safety devices at the
ditches so opened up while construction is in progress and before the work is
backfilled. (1976 Code §15-34)
   D.   Inspections, Special Requirements: The director of public works or the
village engineer, while work is in progress and before the excavations are
backfilled, shall make such inspections as are necessary in order to determine
that no excavation is left unguarded or unattended. They may require such
proper barricades or fencing or other devices to be placed at the excavation so
opened as in their judgment is necessary to make the area safe for the public,
including the right to require the excavation to be pumped dry or filled. (1976
Code §15-36; amd. Ord. 2011-21, 5-12-2011)
   E.   Backfilling: Upon completion of the work and inspection, and upon
approval by the village engineer, the person doing the work shall immediately
backfill opened ditches. (1976 Code §15-35)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 7-5A-6C of this title and subsection 8-1A-7C of this
  code.
7-1-4: SETTLEMENT OF VIOLATION:
Any person charged with a violation of subsection
7-1-1A1, 7-1-1B, 7-1-2A1 or 7-1-3C of this chapter may, in lieu of prosecution
for a violation thereof, make payment in accordance with section
1-4-2 of this code. (1976 Code §§15-1, 15-3, 15-34; amd. 1991 Code)
7-1-5: PLACEMENT OF FACILITIES WITHIN PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose and intent of this section is to:
         a.   Permit and manage reasonable access to the public ways of the
village for telecommunications and utility purposes on a competitively neutral
basis;
         b.   Conserve the limited physical capacity of the public ways held in
public trust by the village;
         c.   Assure that the village can continue to fairly and responsibly
protect the public health, safety and welfare;
         d.   Enable the village to discharge its public trust consistent with
rapidly evolving federal and state regulatory policies, industry competition
and technological development;
         e.   Assure that the village's current and ongoing costs of granting
and regulating private access to and use of the public ways are fully paid by
the persons seeking such access and causing such costs;
         f.   Secure fair and reasonable compensation to the village and the
residents of the village for permitting private use of the public ways;
         g.   Assure that all telecommunications carriers and utility providers
providing facilities or services within the village comply with the ordinances,
rules and regulations of the village. In the event that applicable federal or
state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this section, the
requirements of this section shall apply to the maximum extent possible without
violating said federal or state laws or regulations;
         h.   Establish a local policy concerning telecommunications and
utility facilities and services;
         i.   Establish clear local guidelines, standards and time frames for
the exercise of local authority with respect to the regulation of facilities;
         j.   Minimize unnecessary local regulation of telecommunications,
cable and video service providers, and utility facilities and services;
         k.   Encourage the provision of advanced and competitive services on
the widest possible basis to the businesses, institutions and residents of the
village;
         l.   Promote competition.
      2.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words, and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When
not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. Any term not defined herein
shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92 Illinois administrative code
section 530.30, the Illinois municipal code, the Illinois simplified municipal
telecommunications act, the Illinois telephone company act, the cable and video
competition law of 2007 and the Illinois highway code, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise. In the event that a term is not defined by this
subsection or the above cited, said term shall have its common and ordinary
meaning:
ABOVEGROUND SERVICE FACILITY: A structure located on or above the surface of
the ground, including any cabinet and the underground supports and foundations
for such structure, that is used by a public utility or service provider to
supply some public need or demand such as power, water, gas, telecommunications
or similar benefit. For the purposes of this title, an aboveground service
facility is one located within the public right of way.
AFFILIATE: A person that (directly or indirectly) owns or controls, is owned or
controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with another person.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this section.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: Excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion of
pipe or electrical conductors. Bore or boring shall include directional boring
as approved by the village engineer.
CABLE ACT: The cable communications policy act of 1984, 47 USC 532 et seq., as
now and hereafter amended, or any successor act(s) thereto.
CABLE AND VIDEO COMPETITION LAW OF 2007: 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-
100 et seq., as the same may be amended from time to time.
CABLE OR VIDEO SERVICE: For the purpose of this section shall have the same
meaning provided by the cable and video competition law of 2007.
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas, or slurry to be transported.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COMPETITIVE CABLE SERVICE OR VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER: Shall have the meaning
ascribed thereto by the cable and video competition law of 2007, section 5/21-
201(h).
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment of facilities.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The mayor and board of trustees of the village.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
DIRECTIONAL BORING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure
to create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
DISRUPT OR DISRUPTION OF THE RIGHT OF WAY OR PUBLIC WAY: Any work or
construction that obstructs the right of way or causes a material adverse
effect on the use of the right of way for its intended use. Such work may
include, without limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting;
placement (whether temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or
structures; damage to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and
shall not include the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does
not materially obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance or construction required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way.
ENCASEMENT: The provision of a protective casing.
EQUIPMENT: The materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXCESS CAPACITY: The volume or capacity in any existing or future duct,
conduit, manhole, handhole or other utility facility within the public way that
is or will be available for use for additional facilities.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: A pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FCC OR FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION: The federal administrative agency, or
lawful successor, authorized to regulate and oversee telecommunications
carriers, services and providers on a national level.
FACILITY: The plant, equipment and property, including, but not limited to, the
poles, pipes, mains, conduits, ducts, cables, wires, plant and equipment
located under, on or above the surface of the ground within the public ways of
the village, including, but not limited to, freestanding facilities and
aboveground facilities.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, vault, box, cabinet, equipment enclosure,
pedestal, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access on highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
village engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health
or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A type of right of way used for vehicular traffic including rural or
urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and improvements,
including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage structures,
signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances necessary or
convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A competitive cable or video service provider that has obtained a state
issued authorization from the ICC pursuant to section 5/21-401 of the
competitive cable and video law of 2007.
ICC OR ILLINOIS COMMERCE COMMISSION: The state administrative agency, or lawful
successor, authorized to regulate and oversee telecommunications carriers,
services and providers and utility services and providers in the state of
Illinois.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
OTHER WAYS: The highways, streets, alleys, utility easements or other rights of
way within the village, but under the jurisdiction and control of a
governmental entity other than the village.
OVERHEAD FACILITIES: Utility poles, facilities located above the surface of the
ground, including the underground supports and foundations for such facilities.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: The entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to this
section.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES: Equipment at a fixed location that
enables personal wireless service between user equipment and a communications
network, including, but not limited to: a) equipment associated with personal
wireless services such as private broadcast and public safety services, as well
as unlicensed wireless services and fixed wireless services such as microwave
backhaul; and b) telecommunications tower, radio transceivers, antennas,
coaxial or fiber optic cable, regular and backup power supplies and comparable
equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES: Any technologies defined in 47 USC 332(c)(7),
including commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless services, and common
carrier wireless exchange access services, provided to personal mobile
communication devices through wireless facilities or any fixed mobile wireless
services provided using personal wireless service facilities.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS STANDARDS MANUAL: The village of Woodridge "Standards And
Specifications For Public And Private Improvements", as amended from time to
time.
PUBLIC STREET: Any highway, street, alley or other public right of way for
motor vehicle travel under the jurisdiction and control of the village which
has been acquired, established, dedicated or devoted to highway purposes not
inconsistent with facilities.
PUBLIC WAY: Means and includes all public streets and utility easements, as
those terms are defined herein, now or hereafter owned by the village, but only
to the extent of the village's right, title, interest or authority to grant a
license or franchise to occupy and use such streets and easements for
facilities.
RESTORE OR RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or
other area disrupted by the construction of a facility to the same condition or
state prior to the disruption taking place.
SCREENING: Solid wall, fence or densely planted compact hedge not less than
five feet (5') in height.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
STATE ISSUED AUTHORIZATION: The authorization to offer or provide cable or
video service from the ICC pursuant to section 5/21-401 of the cable and video
competition law of 2007.
SURPLUS SPACE: That portion of the usable space on a utility pole which has the
necessary clearance from other pole users, as required by the orders and
regulations of the Illinois commerce commission, to allow its use by a utility
and/or telecommunications carrier for a pole attachment.
TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER: Any freestanding structure that is designed and
constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas. This
term includes, but is not limited to, radio and television transmission towers,
microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular phone towers, alternative
tower structures, and other wireless communication towers.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
service, private line services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Telecommunications" shall not include value
added services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the
form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission. Notwithstanding the foregoing, telecommunications shall not
include: a) the purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications service
provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such provider
to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end to end
communications; b) the provision of cable services through a cable system as
defined in the cable communications act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and
following) as now or hereafter amended; and c) cable or other programming
services subject to an open video system fee payable to the village through an
open video system as defined in the rules of the federal communications
commission (47 CFR 76.1500 et seq.) as now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES: The plant, equipment and property, including,
but not limited to, cables, wires, conduits, ducts, pedestals, antennas,
electronics and other appurtenances used or to be used to transmit, receive,
distribute, provide or offer telecommunications service. All personal wireless
service facilities are telecommunications facilities.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Every person that installs, owns, operates or
controls telecommunication facilities in the public right of way.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Every person engaged in making sales of
telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE OR SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The
transmitting, supplying, or furnishing of telecommunications and all services
rendered in connection therewith for a consideration, other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries, when the gross charge made by one such corporation to another
such corporation is not greater than the gross charge paid to the retailer for
their use or consumption and not for sale.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM: See definition of Telecommunications Facilities.
UNDERGROUND FACILITIES: Facilities located under the surface of the ground,
excluding the underground foundations or supports for overhead facilities.
USABLE SPACE: The total distance between the top of a utility pole and the
lowest possible attachment point that provides the minimum allowable vertical
clearance as specified in the orders and regulations of the Illinois commerce
commission.
UTILITY EASEMENT: Any easement owned by the village and acquired, established,
dedicated or devoted for public utility purposes not inconsistent with
facilities.
UTILITY FACILITIES: The plant, equipment and property, including, but not
limited to, the poles, pipes, mains, conduits, ducts, cables, wires, plant and
equipment located under, on or above the surface of the ground within the
public ways of the village and used or to be used for the purpose of providing
utility or telecommunications services.
UTILITY POLE: A structure owned or operated by a public utility, as defined by
220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-105, or a municipality as defined by 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1-2, that is designed specifically for and used
to carry lines, cables or wires for telecommunications, cable, electricity or
to provide lighting.
UTILITY PROVIDER: Means and includes every person who owns, controls, operates
or manages, directly or indirectly, for public use, any plant, equipment or
property used or to be used for or in connection with the production, storage,
transmission, sale, delivery or furnishing of heat, cold, power, electricity,
water, gas or light, the disposal of sewerage, or the conveyance of oil or gas
by pipeline; provided, however, that the village shall not be deemed to be a
utility provider for the purposes of this section.
UTILITY SERVICE: The providing or offering, directly or indirectly, for public
use, of the production, storage, transmission, sale, delivery or furnishing of
heat, cold, power, electricity, water, gas or light, the disposal of sewerage,
or the conveyance of oil or gas by pipeline; provided, however, that the
provision or offering of such service by the village shall not be deemed to be
utility service for the purposes of this section.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground facility.
VILLAGE PROPERTY: Means and includes all real property owned by the village,
other than public streets and utility easements as those terms are defined
herein, and all property held in a proprietary capacity by the village, which
are not subject to right of way licensing and franchising as provided in this
section.
      3.   Telecommunications License: Except as otherwise provided herein, any
telecommunications carrier, provider or retailer who desires to construct,
install, operate, maintain, or otherwise locate telecommunications facilities
in, under, over or across any public ways of the village shall first obtain a
license granting the use of such public ways from the village pursuant to
subsection B of this section.
      4.   Pass-Through License: Except as otherwise provided herein, any
utility provider or competitive cable service or video service provider who
desires to construct, install, operate, maintain, or otherwise locate utility
or cable television facilities in, under, over or across any public ways of the
village for the sole purpose of providing its services to persons and areas
outside the village shall first obtain a license granting the use of such
public ways from the village pursuant to subsection C of this section.
      5.   Utility Franchise: Except as otherwise provided herein, any utility
provider who desires to construct, install, operate, maintain or otherwise
locate utility facilities in, under, over or across any public way of the
village, and to also provide utility service to persons or areas in the
village, shall first obtain a franchise granting the use of such public ways
from the village pursuant to subsection D of this section.
      6.   Cable Television Franchise Agreement Or State Issued Authorization:
Except as otherwise provided herein, any competitive cable service or video
service provider who desires to construct, install, operate, maintain or locate
facilities in any public way of the village for the purpose of providing cable
or video service to persons in the village shall first obtain a cable franchise
from the village or obtain state issued authorization pursuant to the cable and
video competition law of 2007. For the purposes of this section, including, but
not limited to, the requirements and standards set forth in subsection D of
this section, a holder shall be treated as if it was a franchisee.
      7.   Annual Update: Telecommunications provider, competitive cable
service, video service provider, and utility that occupies public ways within
the village shall, on January 1 of each year, update the director of public
works, in writing, with name, address and regular business telephone and
facsimile (fax) numbers, the name of one or more contact persons who can act on
behalf of the telecommunications provider, competitive cable service, video
service provider, and utility in connection with emergencies involving their
facilities in the public way, and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for
each such person, together with evidence of insurance as required in subsection
G18 of this section, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
      8.   Application To Existing Franchise Ordinances And Agreements: This
section shall not be deemed or construed to repeal or amend any existing
franchise ordinance or franchise agreement, and the same shall remain in full
force and effect, until the expiration of said franchise ordinance or agreement
or termination thereof. In the event that an existing franchise agreement is
silent with regard to standards and conditions, or a long term course of
dealing does not exist for an in force franchise, this section shall apply.
      9.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this section, may vary the standards, conditions,
and requirements herein when the director of public works or village engineer
determines that application of the standards, conditions and requirements
herein are substantially impractical and inconsistent with sound engineering
practices. Such variations shall not include variations from any permit
prohibitions. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its public ways for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare.
      10.   Other Remedies: Nothing in this section shall be construed as
limiting any judicial remedies that the village may have, at law or in equity,
for enforcement of this section.
   B.   Telecommunications License:
      1.   Telecommunications License: A telecommunications license shall be
required of any telecommunications carrier, provider or retailer who desires to
occupy any public ways of the village.
      2.   License Application: Any person that desires a license pursuant to
this subsection B shall file an application with the village which shall
include the following information:
         a.   The identity of the license applicant, including all affiliates
of the applicant which will make use of the public ways.
         b.   A description of the telecommunications services that are or will
be offered or provided by licensee over its telecommunications facilities.
         c.   A completed application for construction permit, including all of
the required information and materials as set forth in subsections G and H of
this section.
         d.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all
other governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the
facilities, including evidence that any "certificate of public convenience and
necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant is required by
law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has been issued by
the ICC or other jurisdictional authority.
         e.   Such other information as may be required by the village
engineer.
      3.   Determination By Village: After receipt of a complete application
which complies with the requirements of this subsection B, and within such time
as required under the cable and video competition law of 2007, or other
applicable law, the corporate authorities shall approve a written license
agreement and the director of public works shall issue associated construction
permits so as to grant the application as requested or with specified
modifications. The determination to approve the license agreement and issue the
permits shall be based upon the applicant's compliance with the requirements of
this section, the capacity of the public ways to accommodate the applicant's
proposed facilities and the damage or disruption, if any, which would result to
public or private facilities, improvements, or services. In the event that an
application is received which is not complete or does not comply with the
requirements of this section, the director of public works or his designee
shall so notify the applicant within forty five (45) days after the receipt of
said application, or such other time as required by applicable law, specifying
the deficiencies and directing the applicant to correct the same.
Where the work proposed will be performed in phases in multiple locations, the
village, in its sole discretion, may authorize a master license agreement in
lieu of a license agreement for each location.
      4.   Acceptance: No license, or associated construction permits, granted
under this subsection B shall be effective until the applicant files with the
village a written acceptance of such license.
      5.   Nonexclusive Grant: No license granted under this subsection B shall
confer any exclusive right, privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use
the public ways of the village for any purposes.
      6.   Rights Granted: No license granted under this subsection B shall
convey any right, title or interest in the public ways, but shall be deemed a
license only to use and occupy the public ways for the limited purposes and
term stated in the grant. Further, no license shall be construed as any
warranty of title.
      7.   License Route: A license granted under this subsection B shall be
limited to the specific public ways and portions thereof set forth therein.
      8.   Construction Of Facilities: Unless otherwise specified in the
license, all facilities shall be constructed, installed and located in
accordance with the conditions and standards set forth in this section.
      9.   Additional Requirements For Personal Wireless Service Facilities:
         a.   No telecommunications tower used to support personal wireless
service facilities shall be permitted in any public way.
         b.   Personal wireless service facilities may be located on an
existing utility pole that is within the public way. Personal wireless service
facilities shall comply with aboveground service facilities requirements as set
forth herein and subject to the following conditions:
            (1)   The addition of said personal wireless service facilities
does not exceed more than seven feet (7') above the height of the existing
utility pole to which it is attached.
            (2)   No guy or other support wires shall be used in connections
with such personal wireless service facilities.
            (3)   Personal wireless service facilities antenna and related
equipment shall not exceed seven (7) square feet in antenna surface area or
seven feet (7') in any dimension.
            (4)   Replacement utility poles can be placed at the same height as
the existing utility pole to accommodate personal wireless service facilities.
            (5)   Personal wireless service facilities, including antenna and
related equipment, shall be a color that blends with the surroundings of the
existing utility pole on which it is mounted. Any wiring on the utility pole
must be covered with an appropriate cover or cable shield.
            (6)   Not more than one personal wireless service facility may be
located on an existing single utility pole.
            (7)   No personal wireless facility shall be installed within three
hundred feet (300') of an existing personal wireless facility or within three
hundred feet (300') of a site specific location already granted a permit for a
personal wireless facility.
            (8)   If installation is to be located on a utility pole owned by
the village, the licensee shall install a separate meter measuring electricity
usage and shall pay the utility directly for its power consumption. If the
licensee requests to use the existing service, the village, in its sole
discretion, may consent to such use; however, it is the licensee's
responsibility to obtain all required approvals from the utility provider, and
the licensee shall be responsible for all costs related to the licensee's use
of the existing service, as determined by the village.
            (9)   Facilities mounted on an existing utility pole of a current
franchisee or licensee with the written permission of the franchisee or
licensee, regardless of the terms and conditions of any existing franchise or
license agreement with the village shall be allowed, so long as the owner of
the personal wireless service facility has entered into a license agreement as
required by this section and secured a permit as required by this section. An
applicant for a permit shall submit its written agreement with the franchisee
or licensee which owns the existing utility pole as part of its permit
application.
      10.   Term Of Grant: A license under this subsection B shall be granted
for a specific term, not to exceed ten (10) years. Upon the written request of
the licensee, and provided that the licensee is in compliance with the
requirements of this code and the terms of the license, such license may be
renewed for successive periods, not to exceed ten (10) years.
      11.   Compensation To Village: Each license granted under this subsection
B is subject to the licensee's payment of compensation to the village in
accordance with all ordinances of the village and other applicable law; to the
extent permitted by law, the village reserves the authority to annually fix a
fair and reasonable compensation to be paid by the licensee.
   C.   Pass-Through Licenses:
      1.   Pass-Through License: A pass-through license shall be required of
any utility provider or competitive cable service or video service provider who
desires to occupy public ways of the village for the purpose of providing
utility or cable or video services solely to persons or areas outside the
village.
      2.   License Application: Any person that desires a license pursuant to
this subsection C shall file an application with the village which shall
include the following information:
         a.   The identity of the license applicant, including all affiliates
of the applicant which will make use of the public ways.
         b.   A description of the services that are or will be offered or
provided by licensee over its facilities.
         c.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
licensee to offer or provide such services.
         d.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map
of the facilities to be located within the village, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
            (1)   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
facilities.
            (2)   The location of all overhead and underground public utility,
telecommunication, cable, water, sewer, drainage and other facilities in the
public way along the proposed route.
            (3)   The locations, if any, for interconnection with the
facilities of other competitive cable service or video service providers,
telecommunications carriers and/or utility providers.
            (4)   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate.
         e.   If applicant is proposing to install overhead facilities,
evidence that surplus space is available for locating its facilities on
existing utility poles along the proposed route.
         f.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing
ducts, conduits or other underground facilities within the public ways,
information in sufficient detail to identify:
            (1)   The excess capacity currently available in such facilities
before installation of applicant's facilities;
            (2)   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such
facilities after installation of applicant's facilities.
         g.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation within new
ducts, conduits or other underground facilities to be constructed within the
public ways:
            (1)   The location proposed for the new ducts, conduits or other
underground facilities;
            (2)   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts, conduits
or other underground facilities after installation.
         h.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion date.
         i.   A preliminary traffic control plan in accordance with the IDOT
"Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices".
         j.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability
to construct, operate, maintain, relocate and remove the facilities.
         k.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's
technical qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the facilities and
services described in the application.
         l.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all
other governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the
facilities and to offer or provide the telecommunications and/or utility
services.
         m.   All fees, deposits or charges required pursuant to subsection F
of this section.
         n.   Such other and further information as may be required by the
village administrator.
To the extent that the applicant claims that any such information is
proprietary, privileged or confidential, or that disclosure of such information
may cause competitive harm, or such information consists of architects' plans
or engineers' technical submissions, so as to be exempt from inspection or
copying under the freedom of information act, the applicant shall specifically
and conspicuously indicate such claim(s) on the item(s) submitted to which such
claim(s) applies.
      3.   Determination By The Village: Within one hundred twenty (120) days
after receiving a complete application under subsection C2 of this section, or
such earlier time period required by any applicable federal or state law, the
corporate authorities shall issue a written determination granting, granting
with modifications and/or conditions, or denying the application in whole or in
part, applying the following standards. If the application is denied, the
written determination shall include the reasons for denial.
         a.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
         b.   The legal ability of the applicant.
         c.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate the applicant's
proposed facilities.
         d.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional
facilities if the license is granted.
         e.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private
facilities, improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the license is
granted.
         f.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
         g.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and
region.
         h.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the
license is granted.
         i.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the
proposed facilities.
         j.   Applicable federal and state laws, regulations and policies.
         k.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the
public ways will serve the community interest.
      4.   Agreement: No license granted under this subsection C shall be
effective until the applicant and the village have executed a written agreement
setting forth the particular terms and provisions under which the license to
occupy and use public ways of the village will be granted.
      5.   Nonexclusive Grant: No license granted under this subsection C shall
confer any exclusive right, privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use
the public ways of the village for any purposes.
      6.   Rights Granted: No license granted under this subsection C shall
convey any right, title or interest in the public ways, but shall be deemed a
license only to use and occupy the public ways for the limited purposes and
term stated in the grant. Further, no license shall be construed as any
warranty of title.
      7.   Term Of Grant: Unless otherwise specified in a license agreement, a
license granted under this subsection C shall be in effect for a term of five
(5) years.
      8.   License Route: A license granted under this subsection C shall be
limited to a grant of specific public ways and defined portions thereof.
      9.   Construction Standards: Unless otherwise specified in a license
agreement, all facilities shall be constructed, installed and located in
accordance with subsections G and H of this section.
      10.   Construction Permits: All licensees under this subsection C are
required to obtain construction permits as provided in subsection G of this
section, provided, however, that nothing in this section shall prohibit the
village and a licensee from agreeing to alternative plan review, permit and
construction procedures in a license agreement, provided such alternative
procedures provide substantially equivalent safeguards for responsible
construction practices.
      11.   Compensation To Village: Each license granted under this subsection
C is subject to the village's right, which is expressly reserved, to annually
fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for the license rights
granted to the licensee; provided, nothing in this section shall prohibit the
village and a licensee from agreeing to the compensation to be paid.
      12.   Service To Village Users: A licensee under this subsection C may be
permitted to offer or provide utility or cable or video services to persons or
areas within the village upon submitting an application for and obtaining a
franchise pursuant to subsection D or E of this section, as appropriate.
      13.   Amendment Of Grant:
         a.   A new license application and grant or amendment shall be
required of any licensee that desires to extend or locate its facilities in
public ways of the village which are not included in a license previously
granted under this subsection C.
         b.   If the village orders a licensee to locate or relocate its
facilities in public ways not included in a previously granted license, the
village shall grant a license amendment without further application.
      14.   Renewal Applications: A licensee that desires to renew its license
under this subsection C shall, not more than one hundred eighty (180) days nor
less than ninety (90) days before expiration of the then current license, file
an application with the village for renewal of its license which shall include
the following information:
         a.   The information required pursuant to subsection C2 of this
section.
         b.   Any information required pursuant to the license agreement
between the village and the licensee.
      15.   Renewal Determinations: Within ninety (90) days after receiving a
complete application under subsection C14 of this section, the corporate
authorities shall issue a written determination granting, granting with
modifications and/or conditions, or denying the renewal application in whole or
in part, applying the following standards. If the renewal application is
denied, the written determination shall include the reasons for denial.
         a.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
         b.   The legal ability of the applicant.
         c.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
         d.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this code and
the license agreement.
         e.   Applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and policies.
         f.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to
use the public ways will serve the community interest.
      16.   Obligation To Cure As A Condition Of Renewal: No license shall be
renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in the licensee's performance
of the license agreement, or of the requirements of this code, have been cured,
or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken by the licensee has been
approved by the village.
   D.   Utility Franchises:
      1.   Utility Franchises: A utility franchise shall be required of any
utility provider who desires to occupy public ways of the village and to
provide utility services to any person or area in the village.
      2.   Franchise Application: Any person that desires a franchise pursuant
to this subsection D shall file an application with the village which shall
include the following information:
         a.   The identity of the franchise applicant, including all affiliates
of the applicant.
         b.   A description of the utility services that are or will be offered
or provided by the franchise applicant over its existing or proposed
facilities.
         c.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
franchisee to offer or provide such services.
         d.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map
of the facilities to be located within the village, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
            (1)   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
facilities.
            (2)   The location of all overhead and underground public utility,
telecommunication, cable, water, sewer drainage and other facilities in the
public way along the proposed route.
            (3)   The locations, if any, for interconnection with the
facilities of other telecommunications carriers and/or utility providers.
            (4)   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate.
         e.   If applicant is proposing to install overhead facilities,
evidence that surplus space is available for locating its facilities on
existing utility poles along the proposed route.
         f.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing
ducts, conduits or other underground facilities within the public ways,
information in sufficient detail to identify:
            (1)   The excess capacity currently available in such facilities
before installation of applicant's facilities;
            (2)   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such
facilities after installation of applicant's facilities.
         g.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation within new
ducts, conduits or other underground facilities to be constructed within the
public ways:
            (1)   The location proposed for the new ducts, conduits or other
underground facilities;
            (2)   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts, conduits
or other underground facilities after installation.
         h.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion dates.
         i.   A preliminary traffic control plan in accordance with the IDOT
"Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices".
         j.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability
to construct, operate, maintain, relocate and remove the facilities.
         k.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's
technical qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the facilities and
services described in the application.
         l.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all
other governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the
facilities and to offer or provide the utility services.
         m.   If the applicant intends to provide cable or video service, video
dial tone service or other video programming service, sufficient information to
determine whether such service is subject to the cable and video competitive
law of 2007.
         n.   An accurate map showing the location of any existing facilities
in the village that applicant intends to use or lease.
         o.   A description of the services or facilities that the applicant
will offer or make available to the village and other public, educational and
governmental institutions.
         p.   A description of applicant's access and service extension
policies.
         q.   The area or areas of the village the applicant desires to serve
and a schedule for build-out to the entire franchise area.
         r.   All fees, deposits or charges required pursuant to subsection G
of this section.
         s.   Such other and further information as may be requested by the
village administrator.
      3.   Determination By The Village: Within one hundred fifty (150) days
after receiving a complete application under subsection D2 of this section, the
corporate authorities shall issue a written determination granting, granting
with modifications and/or conditions, or denying the application in whole or in
part, applying the following standards. If the application is denied, the
written determination shall include the reasons for denial.
         a.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
         b.   The legal ability of the applicant.
         c.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate the applicant's
proposed facilities.
         d.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility
and telecommunications facilities if the franchise is granted.
         e.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private
facilities, improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the franchise is
granted.
         f.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
         g.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and
region.
         h.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the
franchise requested is granted.
         i.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the
proposed facilities.
         j.   Applicable federal and state laws, regulations and policies.
         k.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the
public ways will serve the community interest.
      4.   Agreement: No franchise shall be granted under this subsection D
unless the applicant and the village have executed a written agreement setting
forth the particular terms and provisions under which the franchise to occupy
and use public ways of the village will be granted.
      5.   Nonexclusive Grant: No franchise granted under this subsection D
shall confer any exclusive right, privilege, license or franchise to occupy or
use the public ways of the village for any purposes.
      6.   Term Of Grant: Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement,
a franchise granted under this subsection D shall be valid for a term of ten
(10) years.
      7.   Rights Granted: No franchise granted under this subsection D shall
convey any right, title or interest in the public ways, but shall be deemed a
franchise only to use and occupy the public ways for the limited purposes and
term stated in the grant. Further, no franchise shall be construed as any
warranty of title.
      8.   Franchise Territory: A franchise granted under this subsection D
shall be limited to the specific geographic area of the village to be served by
the franchisee, and the specific public ways necessary to serve such areas.
      9.   Construction Standards: Unless otherwise specified in a franchise
agreement, all facilities shall be constructed, installed and located in
accordance with subsections G and H of this section.
      10.   Construction Permits: All franchisees under this subsection D are
required to obtain construction permits as required in subsection G of this
section; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall prohibit the
village and a franchisee from agreeing to alternative plan review, permit and
construction procedures in a franchise agreement, provided such alternative
procedures provide substantially equivalent safeguards for responsible
construction practices.
      11.   Compensation To Village: Each franchise granted under this
subsection D is subject to the village's right, which is expressly reserved, to
annually fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for the franchise
rights granted to the franchisee; provided, nothing in this section shall
prohibit the village and a franchisee from agreeing to the compensation to be
paid.
      12.   Nondiscrimination: A franchisee shall make its services available
to any customer within its franchise area who shall request such service,
without discrimination as to the terms, conditions, rates or charges for the
franchisee's services; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall
prohibit a franchisee from making any reasonable classifications among
differently situated customers.
      13.   Service To The Village: A franchisee shall make its services
available to the village at its most favorable rate for similarly situated
users, unless otherwise provided in the franchise agreement.
      14.   Amendment Of Grant:
         a.   A new franchise application and grant or amendment shall be
required of any franchisee that desires to extend its franchise territory or to
locate its facilities in public ways of the village which are not included in a
franchise previously granted under this section.
         b.   If the village orders a franchisee to locate or relocate its
facilities in public ways not included in a previously granted franchise, the
village shall grant a franchise amendment without further application.
      15.   Renewal Applications: A franchisee that desires to renew its
franchise under this section shall, not more than two hundred forty (240) days
nor less than one hundred fifty (150) days before expiration of the current
franchise, file an application with the village for renewal of its franchise
which shall include the following information:
         a.   The information required pursuant to subsection D2 of this
section.
         b.   Any information required pursuant to the franchise agreement
between the village and the franchisee.
      16.   Renewal Determinations: Within one hundred fifty (150) days after
receiving a complete application under subsection D15 of this section, the
corporate authorities shall issue a written determination granting, granting
with modifications and/or conditions, or denying the renewal application in
whole or in part, applying the following standards. If the renewal application
is denied, the written determination shall include the reasons for denial.
         a.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
         b.   The legal ability of the applicant.
         c.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
         d.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this section
and the franchise agreement.
         e.   Applicable Federal, State and local laws, rules and policies.
         f.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to
use the public ways will serve the community interest.
      17.   Obligation To Cure As A Condition Of Renewal: No franchise shall be
renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in the franchisee's
performance of the franchise agreement, or of the requirements of this Code,
have been cured, or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken by the
franchisee has been approved by the Village.
   E.   Cable And Video Service Facilities License: The provision of cable and
video service is subject to extensive regulation under the Cable Act (47 USC
532 et seq.) and the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007 1 . The conditions
and standards set forth in subsections D, G and H of this section shall apply
to cable and video service facilities, which shall be treated as
telecommunications or utility facilities for the purposes of those subsections.
   F.   Fees And Compensation:
      1.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this subsection to provide for the
payment and recovery of the actual costs and expenses of the Village related to
the enforcement and administration of this section, whether direct or indirect.
Except as otherwise provided by the Cable Act, the Cable and Video Competition
Law of 2007, other applicable law, regulation or rule, or applicable license or
franchise agreement, each applicant hereunder shall pay to the Village the fees
and compensation provided under this subsection F.
      2.   Application And Review Fee:
         a.   Any applicant for a license or franchise pursuant to this section
shall pay a fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) or an amount equal to one
dollar ($1.00) per foot of new underground facilities, plus ten cents ($0.10)
per foot of overhead facilities installed on existing utility poles and/or
underground facilities installed in existing underground duct or conduit,
whichever is greater.
         b.   An applicant whose license or franchise application has been
withdrawn, abandoned or denied shall, within sixty (60) days of its written
request, be refunded the balance of its deposit under this subsection, less:
            (1)   One hundred dollars ($100.00); and
            (2)   All ascertainable costs and expenses incurred by the Village
in connection with the application.
      3.   Other Village Costs: All license or franchise grantees shall, within
thirty (30) days after written demand therefor, reimburse the Village for all
direct and indirect costs and expenses incurred by the Village in connection
with the grant or any modification, amendment, renewal or transfer of the
license or franchise or any license or franchise agreement.
      4.   Reserved Compensation For Public Ways: The Village reserves the
right to annually fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for the
access and use of Village owned public ways, in recognition of the Village's
costs in connection with reviewing, inspecting and supervising the use and
occupancy of the public ways on behalf of the public and existing or future
users, and the Village's increased costs for work in the public ways resulting
from such occupancy. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Village and a
licensee or franchisee from agreeing to the compensation to be paid for the
granted license or franchise rights.
      5.   Compensation For Village Property: If the right is granted, by
lease, license, franchise or other manner, to use and occupy Village property
for the installation of telecommunications, cable and video service facilities
and/or utility facilities, the compensation to be paid shall be fixed by the
Village.
      6.   Construction Permit Fee: Prior to issuance of a construction permit,
the permittee shall pay a permit fee equal to four hundred dollars ($400.00) or
an amount equal to one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) per foot of new underground
facilities, plus twenty five cents ($0.25) per foot of overhead facilities
installed on existing utility poles, plus ten cents ($0.10) per foot of
underground utilities installed in existing underground duct or conduit,
whichever is greater.
      7.   Cable And Video Service Fees: Cable and video service providers
shall be subject to the fees, payments and costs provided in this subsection F,
or such other fees as the Village and cable or video service provider agree.
      8.   Regulatory Fees And Compensation Not A Tax: The regulatory fees and
costs provided for in this section, and any compensation charged and paid for
the public ways provided for in subsection F4 of this section, are separate
from, and additional to, any and all Federal, State, local and Village taxes as
may be levied on, imposed on or due from a utility provider or
telecommunications carrier or provider, its customers or subscribers, or on
account of the lease, sale, delivery or transmission of utility and/or
telecommunications services.
   G.   Conditions Of Grants:
      1.   Location Of Facilities: All facilities shall be constructed,
installed and located in accordance with the requirements of this section,
unless otherwise specified in a license or franchise agreement, or otherwise
provided by applicable law.
      2.   License, Franchise Or Other Authorization Required: All licensees
and franchisees shall execute and maintain a license or franchise agreement as
otherwise required by this code, or state issued authorization pursuant to the
cable and video competition law of 2007.
      3.   Compliance With JULIE: All licensees or franchisees shall, before
commencing any construction in the public ways, comply with all regulations of
JULIE.
      4.   Construction Permits: All licensees or franchisees are required to
obtain construction permits as provided in subsection H of this section.
However, nothing in this section shall prohibit the village and a licensee or
franchisee from agreeing to alternative plan review, permit and construction
procedures in a license or franchise agreement, provided such alternative
procedures provide substantially equivalent safeguards for responsible
construction practices.
      5.   Interference With Public Ways: No licensee or franchisee may locate
or maintain its facilities so as to unreasonably interfere with the use of the
public ways by the village, by the general public or by other persons
authorized to use or be present in or upon the public ways. All such facilities
shall be moved by the licensee or franchisee, temporarily or permanently, as
determined by the village engineer.
      6.   Damage To Property: No licensee or franchisee, nor any person acting
on behalf thereof, including subcontractors and contractors, shall take any
action or permit any action to be done which may impair or damage any village
property, public ways of the village, other ways or other property located in,
on or adjacent thereto.
      7.   Notice Of Work: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, no licensee or franchisee, nor any person acting on behalf thereof,
shall commence any nonemergency work in or about the public ways of the village
or other ways without ten (10) working days' advance written notice to the
village. Additionally, the licensee or franchisee shall provide advance written
notices to every property where construction will be occurring and/or passing
through and/or adjacent to such property. Such notification shall include at
least two (2) written notices with the last notification being given at least
seven (7) but no more than fourteen (14) days before construction begins. The
licensee or franchisee shall notify the village in writing each time a
notification is being provided to property owners, including a copy of such
notification. The notifications shall include, at a minimum, a description of
the work that will be taking place, a description of where the work will be
taking place, efforts the property owner should take related to protection of
their private property, the plan for prompt restoration of any impacted areas,
and a contact telephone number, email, and website to direct questions and
concerns to the licensee or franchisee.
      8.   Repair And Emergency Work: In the event of an unexpected repair or
emergency, including damage to public ways or facilities, a licensee or
franchisee may commence such repair and emergency response work as required
under the circumstances, provided the licensee or franchisee shall notify the
village as promptly as possible, before such repair or emergency work, or as
soon thereafter as possible if advance notice is not practicable. Such repairs
or emergencies shall be made at the sole expense of the licensee or franchisee.
All such repairs shall be undertaken or completed as directed by the village.
      9.   Maintenance Of Facilities: Each licensee or franchisee shall
maintain its facilities in good and safe condition and in a manner that
complies with all applicable federal, state and local requirements.
      10.   Relocation Or Removal Of Facilities: Within thirty (30) days
following written notice from the village, a licensee or franchisee shall, at
its own expense, temporarily or permanently remove, relocate, change or alter
the position of any facility within the public ways whenever the corporate
authorities shall have determined that such removal, relocation, change or
alteration is reasonably necessary for:
         a.   The construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any
village or other public improvement in or upon the public ways.
         b.   The operations of the village or other governmental entity in or
upon the public ways.
      11.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days
following written notice from the village, any licensee or franchisee, or other
person that owns, controls or maintains any unauthorized facility or related
appurtenances within the public ways of the village shall, at its own expense,
remove such facility or appurtenances thereto from the public ways of the
village; provided, however, that the village engineer may, in his or her sole
discretion, approve the abandonment of all or any part thereof in lieu of
removal. The methods, materials and workmanship relating to such removal or
abandonment shall be subject to the approval of the village engineer.
Facilities or related appurtenances are unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
         a.   Upon expiration or termination of the applicable license or
franchise agreement as required by this code, or state issued authorization.
         b.   Upon abandonment of a facility within the public ways of the
village.
         c.   If the facility or related appurtenance was constructed or
installed without the prior grant of a license or franchise agreement as
required by this code, or state issued authorization.
         d.   If the facility or related appurtenance was constructed or
installed without the prior issuance of a required construction permit.
         e.   If the facility or related appurtenance was constructed or
installed at a location not permitted by the applicable license, franchise
agreement or state issued authorization.
      12.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains
the right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the public
ways of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency.
      13.   Damage To Facilities: Unless directly and proximately caused by
wilful, intentional or malicious acts by the village, its officers or
employees, neither the village, its officers or employees shall be liable for
any damage to or loss of any facility within the public ways of the village as
a result of or in connection with any public works, public improvements,
construction, excavation, grading, filling, or work of any kind in the public
ways by or on behalf of the village. This subsection shall not shield any
independent contractor of the village from any liability on the part of such
independent contractor for such damage or loss.
      14.   Restoration Of Public Ways, Other Ways And Village Property:
         a.   When a licensee or franchisee, or any person acting on its behalf
including subcontractors and contractors, does any work in or affecting any
public ways, other ways or village property, it shall, at its own expense,
promptly remove any obstructions therefrom and restore such ways or property,
including village equipment and public ways, to as good a condition as existed
before the work was undertaken, unless otherwise directed by the village. The
village reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to inspect the restoration
work that has been completed and dictate additional restoration activities that
must be completed. If licensee or franchisee fails to completely restore the
ways or property to the satisfaction of the village within five (5) business
days of completing the work, the village shall have the right to complete the
restoration. In such case, the village shall follow the procedures set forth in
subsection G21 of this section with regard to notice and withdrawal from the
security fund. In addition, for so long as the licensee or franchisee is in
violation of this paragraph, no further permits shall be issued to the licensee
or franchisee under this title.
         b.   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete
restoration required by this subsection, the licensee or franchisee shall
temporarily restore the affected ways or property. Such temporary restoration
shall be at the sole expense of the licensee or franchisee and the licensee or
franchisee shall promptly undertake and complete the required permanent
restoration when the weather or other conditions no longer prevent such
permanent restoration.
         c.   A licensee or franchisee, or other person acting on its behalf,
shall use suitable barricades, flags, flagmen, lights, flares and other
measures as required for the safety of all members of the general public and to
prevent injury or damage to any person, vehicle or property by reason of such
work in or affecting such ways or property.
      15.   Facilities Map: Each licensee or franchisee shall provide the
village with an accurate map or maps certifying the location of all facilities
within the public ways, and shall provide updated maps annually.
      16.   Duty To Provide Information: Within ten (10) days of a written
request from the village administrator, each licensee or franchisee shall
furnish the village with information sufficient to demonstrate:
         a.   That licensee or franchisee has complied with all applicable
requirements of this section.
         b.   That all municipal sales, message, telecommunications taxes and
any other fee due the village in connection with the services and facilities
provided by the licensee or franchisee have been properly collected and paid by
the licensee or franchisee.
All books, records, maps and other documents, maintained by the licensee or
franchisee with respect to its facilities within the public ways shall be made
available for inspection by the village at reasonable times and intervals.
      17.   Leased Capacity: A licensee or franchisee shall have the right,
without prior village approval, to offer or provide leased capacity or
bandwidth to its customers; provided, however, that such licensee or franchisee
shall provide the village with sufficient information to identify such
customers and the nature of their use thereof.
      18.   Insurance: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, each licensee or franchisee shall, as a condition of the grant of a
license or franchise under this section, secure and maintain the following
liability insurance policies insuring both the licensee and franchisee and the
village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents,
subcontractors and contractors and employees as additional insureds:
         a.   Comprehensive General Liability: Comprehensive general liability
insurance with limits not less than:
            (1)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or
death to each person; and
            (2)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
            (3)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability.
         b.   Automobile Liability: Automobile liability for owned, nonowned
and hired vehicles with a limit of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for
each person and three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each accident.
         c.   Workers' Compensation And Employer's Liability: Workers'
compensation within statutory limits and employer's liability insurance with
limits of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
         d.   Comprehensive From Premises-Operations, Explosions And Hazards:
Comprehensive from premises-operations, explosions and collapse hazard,
underground hazard and products-completed hazard with limits of not less than
three million dollars ($3,000,000.00).
         e.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverage required by this
section may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies.
Any excess or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying
insurance on a following form basis such that when any loss covered by the
primary policy exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or
umbrella policy becomes effective to cover such loss.
         f.   Policies To Be Maintained By The Licensee Or Franchisee: The
liability insurance policies required by this section shall be maintained by
the licensee or franchisee throughout the term of the license or franchise
granted pursuant to this section, and such other period of time during which
the licensee or franchisee is operating without a franchise or license
hereunder, or is engaged in the removal of its facilities. Each such insurance
policy shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until 90 days after receipt by the Village, by
registered mail, of a written notice addressed to the Village Administrator of
such intent to cancel or not to renew.
            (1)   Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared
to and approved by the village. At the option of the village, either the
insurer shall reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retention as
respects the village, its officials, agents, employees, subcontractors and
contractors and volunteers; or the contractor shall procure a bond guaranteeing
payment of losses and related investigation, claim administration and defense
expenses.
            (2)   The contractor shall furnish the village with certificates of
insurance naming the village, its officials, agents, employees, subcontractors
and contractors and volunteers as additional insureds, and with original
endorsements effecting coverage required prior to commencement of any work. The
certificates and endorsements for each insurance policy are to be signed by a
person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its behalf and shall be
in a form acceptable to the village. The insurance afforded by the policy shall
not be suspended, voided, canceled, reduced in coverage or in limits except
after thirty (30) days' prior written notice by certified mail, return receipt
requested, has been given to the village. Such notice shall be addressed as
shown in the heading of the endorsement.
            (3)   Any failure by the contractor to comply with reporting
provisions of the policy shall not affect coverage provided to the village, its
officials, agents, employees, subcontractors and contractors and volunteers.
The insurer shall waive all rights of subrogation against the village, its
officials, agents, employees, subcontractors and contractors and volunteers for
losses arising from work performed by the contractor for the village.
         g.   Replacement Policies: Within sixty (60) days after receipt by the
village of said notice, and in no event later than thirty (30) days prior to
said cancellation, the licensee or franchisee shall obtain and furnish to the
village replacement insurance policies meeting the requirements of this
subsection.
      19.   General Indemnification: Each licensee or franchisee shall agree,
to the extent permitted by law, the express undertaking by the licensee or
franchisee to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its officers,
employees, agents, subcontractors and contractors and representatives harmless
from and against any and all damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable
attorney fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or
alleged to arise out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful
acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the licensee or franchisee or
its affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in
the construction, operation, maintenance, repair or removal of its facilities,
including damages to village public ways and village facilities and equipment,
and in providing or offering telecommunications, cable and video services and/
or utility services over the facilities or network, whether such acts or
omissions are authorized, allowed or prohibited by this section or by an
agreement made or entered into pursuant to this section.
Said undertaking shall also include reimbursement of the village and/or any
other unit of local government for the costs and expenses of providing
emergency services to the licensee or franchisee in connection with such
construction, operation, maintenance, repair or removal, including, but not
limited to, personnel and equipment costs for traffic control, fire protection
and emergency medical services.
      20.   Performance And Construction Surety: Before a license or franchise
granted pursuant to this section is effective, and as necessary thereafter, the
licensee or franchisee shall provide and deposit such monies, bonds, letters of
credit or other instruments in form and substance acceptable to the village as
may be required by this section or by an applicable license or franchise
agreement.
      21.   Security Fund: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, or some other agreement to which the village is a party, each
licensee or franchisee shall establish a permanent security fund with the
village by depositing the amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) with
the village in cash, an unconditional letter of credit, or other instrument
acceptable to the village, which fund shall be maintained at the sole expense
of licensee or franchisee so long as any of licensee's or franchisee's
facilities are located within the public ways of the village. The required
amount of the security fund may be increased by the director of public works,
if in the reasonable exercise of his discretion, he determines that based upon
the number of facilities to be constructed or other relevant factor, fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) is inadequate for the purposes set forth in
subsection G21c of this section.
         a.   Fund To Serve As Security: The fund shall serve as security for
the full and complete performance of this section, including any costs,
expenses, damages, or loss, including public ways and equipment, the village
pays or incurs because of any failure attributable to the licensee or
franchisee to comply with the codes, ordinances, rules, regulations or permits
of the village, whether negligent or intentional.
         b.   Written Notice Of Withdrawal: Before any sums are withdrawn from
the security fund, the village shall give written notice to the licensee or
franchisee:
            (1)   Describing the act, default or failure to be remedied, or the
damages, cost or expenses which the village has incurred by reason of
licensee's or franchisee's act or default;
            (2)   Providing a reasonable opportunity for licensee or franchisee
to first remedy the existing or ongoing default or failure, if applicable;
            (3)   Providing a reasonable opportunity for licensee or franchisee
to pay any monies due the village before the village withdraws the amount
thereof from the security fund, if applicable;
            (4)   That the licensee or franchisee will be given an opportunity
to review the act, default or failure described in the notice with the village
administrator or his designee.
         c.   Withdrawals From Security Fund: The village shall provide the
licensee or franchisee with fourteen (14) days' advance written notice stating
the reason for, and its intention to, exercise withdrawal rights under this
subsection. Upon such notice, the village may withdraw an amount from the
security fund, provided that the licensee or franchisee has not reimbursed the
village for such amount within said fourteen (14) day notice period.
Withdrawals may be made if the licensee or franchisee:
            (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the licensee
or franchisee hereunder; or
            (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are
due and unpaid; or
            (3)   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs
or expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of
any action or nonperformance by the licensee or franchisee, including its
subcontractors or contractors; or
            (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the
village determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the
security fund.
         d.   Replenishing The Security Fund: Licensees or franchisees shall
replenish the security fund within fourteen (14) days after written notice from
the village that there is a deficiency in the amount of the fund.
      22.   Construction And Completion Security: Unless otherwise provided in
a license or franchise agreement, cash, an unconditional letter of credit, a
performance bond written by a corporate surety acceptable to the village, or
other instruments in a form acceptable to the village, equal to at least one
hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of all restoration work in
connection with constructing the telecommunications and/or utility facilities
of the licensee or franchisee within the public ways of the village shall be
deposited before construction is commenced.
         a.   The construction security shall remain in force until sixty (60)
days after substantial completion of the work, as determined by the village
engineer, including restoration of public ways and other property affected by
the construction.
         b.   The construction security shall guarantee, to the satisfaction of
the village:
            (1)   Timely completion of construction;
            (2)   Construction in compliance with applicable plans, permits,
technical codes and standards;
            (3)   Proper location of the facilities as specified by the
village;
            (4)   Restoration of the public ways and other property affected by
construction for the entire term of any license or franchise;
            (5)   The submission of "as built" drawings after completion of the
work as required by this section;
            (6)   Timely payment and satisfaction of all claims, demands or
liens for labor, material or services provided in connection with the work.
      23.   Coordination Of Construction Activities: All licensees and
franchisees are required to cooperate with the village and with each other.
         a.   By February 1 of each year, licensees and franchisees shall
provide the village with a schedule of their proposed construction activities
in, around, or that may affect the public ways.
         b.   Each licensee and franchisee shall meet with the village, other
licensees and franchisees and users of the public ways annually or as
determined by the village to schedule and coordinate construction in the public
ways.
         c.   All construction locations, activities and schedules shall be
coordinated, as ordered by the village engineer, to minimize public
inconvenience, disruption or damages.
      24.   Assignments Or Transfers: Except in the event of the merger,
consolidation or reorganization of a licensee or franchisee, a licensee or
franchisee shall not have the right to assign its rights and privileges under
the license or franchise granted pursuant to this section or to otherwise
transfer it in any manner whatsoever, without the prior written approval of the
village, pursuant to an ordinance enacted by the corporate authorities. In the
event of such a transfer or assignment, all provisions of the license or
franchise which are obligatory upon, or which inure to the benefit of, the
licensee or franchisee shall also be obligatory upon and shall inure to the
benefit of any and all successors and assigns of the licensee or franchisee.
Any transactions, other than the merger, consolidation or reorganization of a
licensee or franchisee, which singularly or collectively result in a change of
ten percent (10%) or more of the ownership or working control thereof shall be
deemed to be an assignment or transfer for purposes of this subsection.
      25.   Revocation Or Termination: A license or franchise granted by the
village to use or occupy public ways of the village may be revoked for the
following reasons:
         a.   Construction or operation in the village or in the public ways of
the village without a license or franchise grant of authorization, or any other
license, permit and/or other governmental approval or review required pursuant
to any applicable federal, state or local laws, ordinances, codes, rules or
regulations.
         b.   Construction or operation at an unauthorized location.
         c.   Unauthorized assignment of a license or franchise.
         d.   Unauthorized sale, assignment or transfer of licensee's or
franchisee's assets, or a substantial interest therein.
         e.   Misrepresentation or lack of candor by or on behalf of a licensee
or franchisee in any application to the village.
         f.   Abandonment of the licensee's or franchisee's facilities in the
public ways.
         g.   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as required in this
section.
         h.   Failure to pay taxes, compensation, fees or costs when and as due
the village.
         i.   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the licensee or franchisee.
         j.   Violation of material provisions of this section.
         k.   Violation of the material terms of any applicable license or
franchise agreement.
      26.   Notice And Duty To Cure: In the event that the village
administrator believes that grounds exist for revocation of a license or
franchise, he shall give the licensee or franchisee written notice of the
apparent violation or noncompliance, providing a short and concise statement of
the nature and general facts of the violation or noncompliance, and providing
the licensee or franchisee a reasonable period of time not exceeding thirty
(30) days to furnish evidence:
         a.   That corrective action has been, or is being actively and
expeditiously pursued, to remedy the violation or noncompliance.
         b.   That rebuts the alleged violation or noncompliance.
         c.   That it would be in the public interest to impose some penalty or
sanction less than revocation.
      27.   Hearing: In the event that a licensee or franchisee fails to
provide evidence reasonably satisfactory to the village administrator as
provided in subsection G26 of this section, the village administrator shall
refer the apparent violation or noncompliance to the corporate authorities. The
corporate authorities shall provide the licensee or franchisee with notice and
a reasonable opportunity to be heard concerning the matter.
      28.   Standards For Revocation Or Lesser Sanctions: If persuaded that the
licensee or franchisee has violated or failed to comply with material
provisions of this section, or of a franchise or license agreement, the
corporate authorities shall determine whether to revoke the license or
franchise, or to establish some lesser sanction and cure, considering the
nature, circumstances, extent and gravity of the violation as reflected by one
or more of the following factors:
         a.   Whether the misconduct was egregious.
         b.   Whether substantial harm resulted.
         c.   Whether the violation was intentional.
         d.   Whether there is a history of prior violations of the same or
other requirements.
         e.   Whether there is a history of overall compliance.
         f.   Whether the violation was voluntarily disclosed, admitted or
cured.
   H.   Construction Standards:
      1.   General Standards And Principles:
         a.   Compliance With Provisions: No person shall commence or continue
with the construction, installation or operation of facilities within the
village except as provided in this section.
         b.   Construction Codes: Facilities shall be constructed, installed,
operated and maintained in accordance with all applicable federal, state and
local codes, rules and regulations including the national electrical safety
code.
         c.   Construction Permits: No person shall construct or install any
facilities within the village, except individual service lines, without first
obtaining a construction permit therefor.
         d.   Applications: Applications for permits to construct facilities
shall be submitted upon forms to be provided by the village and shall be
accompanied by drawings, plans and specifications in sufficient detail to
demonstrate:
            (1)   That the facilities will be constructed in accordance with
all applicable codes, rules and regulations.
            (2)   The location and route of all facilities to be installed on
existing utility poles.
            (3)   The location and route of all facilities to be located under
the surface of the ground, including the line and grade proposed for the burial
at all points along the route which are within the public ways.
            (4)   The location of all existing public way boundaries, streets,
sidewalks, driveways and underground utilities, conduits, ducts, pipes, mains
and installations which are within the public ways along the underground route
proposed by the applicant.
            (5)   The location of all other facilities to be constructed within
the village, but not within the public ways.
            (6)   The construction methods to be employed for protection of
existing structures, fixtures, and facilities within or adjacent to the public
ways.
            (7)   The location, dimension and types of all trees within or
adjacent to the public ways along the route proposed by the applicant, together
with a landscape plan for protecting, trimming, removing, replacing and
restoring any trees or areas to be disturbed during construction.
            (8)   The applicant shall submit three (3) sets of such drawings,
plans and specifications on sheets not to exceed twenty four inches by thirty
six inches (24" x 36") and which shall be a scale of one inch to twenty feet
(1" = 20').
         e.   All Construction To Comply: All construction in the public ways
shall be in accordance with all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and
regulations, and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and
construction principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the
principles and standards set forth in the following village and IDOT
publications, as the same have been and may hereafter be amended from time to
time:
            (1)   "Public Improvements Standards Manual";
            (2)   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
            (3)   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special
Provisions";
            (4)   "Highway Design Manual";
            (5)   "Highway Standards Manual";
            (6)   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
            (7)   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill.
adm. code section 545);
            (8)   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
            (9)   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance
Operations".
         f.   Installation Of Underground Facilities Within Excess Capacity:
Facilities shall be installed within an existing underground duct or conduit
whenever excess capacity exists within such facility and such installation is
practicable.
         g.   Installation Of Overhead Facilities Within Surplus Space: A
licensee or franchisee with permission to install overhead facilities shall
install its facilities on pole attachments to existing utility poles only, and
then only if surplus space is available.
         h.   Sharing Of Occupancy: Whenever any existing electric utilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the village, a licensee with permission to occupy the same public way shall
also locate its facilities underground, unless the licensee establishes, to the
reasonable satisfaction of the village, that location underground is not
technically feasible.
         i.   Relocation Of Facilities: Whenever any new or existing facilities
are located or relocated underground within a public way of the village, a
permittee that currently occupies the same public way shall relocate its
facilities underground within a reasonable period of time, which shall not be
later than the end of the license term. Absent extraordinary circumstances or
undue hardship as determined by the village engineer, such relocations shall be
made concurrently to minimize the disruption of the public ways.
      2.   Interpretation Of Village Standards And Other Requirements: If a
discrepancy exists between or among village standards and other requirements as
set forth in this section, the village engineer shall determine, in the
exercise of sound engineering judgment, which standards and other requirements
apply and such decision shall be final. If requested, the village engineer
shall state which standard and other requirement will apply to the
construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the future.
      3.   Traffic Control:
         a.   Minimum Requirements: The village's minimum requirements for
traffic control shall be in accordance with IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform
Traffic Control Devices" and such other provisions of this code as the same may
be amended from time to time.
         b.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices And Flaggers: The permittee
shall be responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective
devices and flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable federal, state,
and local requirements for protection of the public and the permittee's workers
when performing any work on the public rights of way.
         c.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there
is minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
         d.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours
prior to beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any
residence, business or institution, the permittee shall notify the resident,
business or institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such
work; provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
this section, the permittee shall provide such notice as is practicable under
the circumstances. Completely blocking access is not permitted unless no other
option is practicable and approved by the village.
         e.   Compliance: Permittee shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
permittee's attention by the village.
      4.   Location Requirements:
         a.   General Location Requirements:
            (1)   Village Facilities: No facility installed by a permittee
shall be located in a manner or at a location that will interfere with the
operation or future maintenance with a facility of the village.
            (2)   Rights Of Way And Adjacent Lands: All facilities shall be
located in the right of way so as to cause no interference with the use of
streets, alleys and other public ways and places, and to cause no impact upon,
and interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners
who adjoin any of the said streets, alleys or other public ways.
            (3)   Cooperation: All permittees seeking to place a facility in
the village shall comply with the village's reasonable requests to place
facilities on public property where possible, and shall comply with village
direction with respect to the location and screening of equipment and
facilities.
            (4)   Size: All permittees constructing a new or upgraded facility
in the right of way shall use the smallest suitable equipment enclosures and
power pedestals and cabinets in use by the facility for that purpose.
         b.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
            (1)   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
               (A)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of
way line and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
               (B)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as
practicable from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') behind the
face of the curb, where available;
               (C)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from
pavement edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') outside
the outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
               (D)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
               (E)   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot
(1') of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way line.
            (2)   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel
facility may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
               (A)   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') from and parallel to the right of
way line;
               (B)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
               (C)   In the case of an underground power or communication line,
the facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and
not more than five feet (5') from the right of way line and any above grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') of the right of way line or
as near as practicable.
         c.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
            (1)   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
            (2)   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing
facilities shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage
facilities.
            (3)   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall
cross at or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as
practicable.
         d.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
            (1)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code part 305);
            (2)   Poles are located within one foot (1') of the right of way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
            (3)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
         e.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
            (1)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
            (2)   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs
is provided in the initial installation.
         f.   Markers: The village may require the permittee to provide a
marker at each right of way line where an underground facility other than a
power or communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify
the type of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may
also be eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section
192.707).
         g.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The
village may require that facilities be located within particular rights of way
that are not highways, rather than within particular highways.
         h.   Freestanding Facilities:
            (1)   No portion or part of any freestanding facility shall be
permitted to be installed within ten feet (10') of a potable water line,
sanitary sewer line or stormwater sewer line unless approved by the director of
public works or his designee.
            (2)   The village may restrict the location and size of any
freestanding facility located within a right of way.
            (3)   The village may require any freestanding facility located
within a right of way to be screened from view.
         i.   Aboveground Facilities: Aboveground facilities may be installed
only if:
            (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located
underground;
            (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
            (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and
will employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection
of aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
         j.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
            (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or
roadway structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means
of accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include,
but are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable
supports and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the
bridge or roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are
volatile, flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under
significant pressure or potential, present high degrees of risk and such
installations are not permitted.
            (2)   A permittee shall include in its request to accommodate a
facility installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data
demonstrating the impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or
disapproval of an application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway
structure will be based upon the following considerations:
               (A)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to
be transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property
in the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
               (B)   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the
highway structure in the transportation system;
               (C)   The alternative routings available to the utility and
their comparative practicability;
               (D)   The proposed method of attachment;
               (E)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of
the proposed facility;
               (F)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and
painting;
               (G)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
               (H)   The public benefit expected from the service as compared
to the risk involved.
      5.   Appearance Standards:
         a.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
         b.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or adjacent residents and property owners or otherwise
impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed by the right of way.
      6.   Construction Methods And Materials:
         a.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
            (1)   Boring Or Jacking:
               (A)   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way
shall be accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the
village engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking
shall be excavated no more than twenty four (24) hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within twenty four (24) hours after boring or
jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly
marked and protected by secured fencing and illuminated barricades. Shoring
shall be designed, erected, supported, braced, and maintained so that it will
safely support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it
during the boring or jacking operation.
               (B)   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings
over six inches (6") in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1").
               (C)   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six
inches (6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided
with auger, or auger and following pipe method.
            (2)   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT'S "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
               (A)   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the village engineer.
               (B)   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and
windrowed excavated material shall be protected as required by section 6 of the
"Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the
excavated material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as
added protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the
paved portion of the roadway. Material excavated from paved areas shall be
immediately loaded into trucks and hauled off site. Where right of way width
does not allow for windrowing excavated material off the paved portion of the
roadway, excavated material shall be hauled to an off road location.
               (C)   Drip Line Of Trees: The permittee shall not trench within
the drip line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
            (3)   Backfilling:
               (A)   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the
installation of facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and
length using methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is
hauled away or is unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be
used.
               (B)   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction
of a facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and
restore any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the
facility, or otherwise failed in any fashion. If so ordered by the engineer,
the utility, at its expense, shall remove any pavement, surrounding terrain and
backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place and properly
compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and
driveways, or any other disturbed items, to the proper grades, as determined by
the village engineer. Permittee shall be required to complete an annual
inspection for each year of the three (3) years for all areas that have been
disturbed to determine if any restorations have failed. A certified report of
such inspection shall be filed with the village no later than August 1 of each
year.
            (4)   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or
repair shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is
closed to traffic. If permittee requests a variance to the limitation set forth
herein, the following requirements shall apply:
               (A)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and
compacted in accordance with the "Public Improvements Standards Manual" as soon
as practicable with granular material of CA-6 gradation. No crushed recycled
concrete shall be used.
               (B)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as
soon as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be
provided immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or
the restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village. For a period
of three (3) years from the date construction of a facility is completed, the
utility shall be responsible to remove and restore any pavement that has
settled due to construction of the facility, or otherwise failed in any
fashion. If so ordered by the engineer, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement, and restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and driveways,
or any other disturbed items, to the proper grades, as determined by the
village engineer. Permittee shall be required to complete an annual inspection
for each year of the three (3) years for all areas that have been disturbed to
determine if any restorations have failed. A certified report of such
inspection shall be filed with the village no later than August 1 of each year.
               (C)   Saw cutting is prohibited unless determined by the village
to be the only feasible alternative. If permitted, appropriate traffic control
devices, as determined by the village, shall be in place prior to commencing
work.
               (D)   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete or asphalt surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in
the last three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is
determined to be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and
unforeseen before the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is
necessary for a JULIE locate. The village shall have the right to require
restoration to a larger area than what was initially disturbed in order to
achieve a uniform appearance for the repair.
            (5)   Encasement:
               (A)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
               (B)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within
one foot (1') of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
               (C)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement
shall be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
               (D)   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
               (E)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products
pipelines with installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be
eliminated only if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future
maintenance or repair, and 2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
               (F)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum
products pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that
construction does not disrupt the right of way.
            (6)   Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                             Minimum Cover
Power or communication line (in general)    30 inches
Communication line installed by the plowed  24 inches
method
Gas or petroleum products                   30 inches
Water line                                  Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                             protection, not less than 5.5 feet
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage    Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                         protection
 
No power or communication line shall be located at a depth of cover between
four (4) and seven feet (7') without express approval by the village in the
relevant construction permit.
         b.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
            (1)   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
               (A)   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications
facilities within village rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and
maintained in conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code
part 305 (formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission)
entitled "rules for construction of electric power and communication lines",
and the national electrical safety code.
            (2)   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication
facilities shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use
of poles shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design
the installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be
allowed if there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with
guy guards for maximum visibility.
            (3)   Underground Facilities:
               (A)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided
that special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
               (B)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking,
encasement shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be
eliminated only if: 1) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip
augers", or other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening
for cable installation, or 2) the installation is by the open trench method
which is only permitted prior to roadway construction.
               (C)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
            (4)   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or
Communication Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or
communication lines may be installed by:
               (A)   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved
methods which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
               (B)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between
the ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
               (C)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch
lines or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
               (D)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation
is not possible by other means.
            (5)   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines
within rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a
village approved manner and in conformance with the requirements of the office
of pipeline safety operations, department of transportation entitled
"transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety
standards" (49 CFR part 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
            (6)   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines
within rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard
code for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
            (7)   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
            (8)   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') in width beyond
the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may be provided by
an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or similar material
approved by the village engineer. With the approval of the village engineer,
shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation free
area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral
color to blend with the surroundings.
         c.   Construction Materials:
            (1)   General Standards: The materials used in constructing
facilities within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards
of the appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois commerce commission, and any other applicable standards established by
official regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
            (2)   Material Storage On Rights Of Way: All pipe, conduit, wire,
poles, cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right of
way prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the
public or an obstacle to right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way
and other property. If material is to be stored on a right of way, the
permittee shall obtain prior written approval from the village engineer.
            (3)   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the permittee to
the village shall identify any hazardous materials involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
      7.   Operational Restrictions:
         a.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion
of the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would
create hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare.
         b.   Such operations may also be required to be discontinued or
restricted when conditions are such that construction would result in extensive
damage to the right of way or other property.
         c.   These restrictions may be waived by the village engineer when
emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
         d.   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of
construction are those set forth in section
8-1A-16 of this code.
      8.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any permittee proposing to
construct facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and all other parties
who may have knowledge of the location of existing facilities that may not be
members of JULIE to ascertain the presence and location of existing aboveground
and underground facilities within the rights of way to be occupied by its
proposed facilities. The village will make its permit records available to a
permittee for the purpose of identifying possible facilities. When notified of
an excavation or when requested by the village or by JULIE, a permittee shall
locate and physically mark its underground facilities within forty eight (48)
hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with the Illinois
underground facilities damage prevention act.
      9.   Screening And Landscaping Requirements; Trees; Vegetation Control:
         a.   Screening And Landscaping Requirements: All facilities shall be
screened and landscaped in accordance with title 9, chapter 13 of this code, as
the same may be amended from time to time. In addition to the general screening
and landscaping requirements set forth therein, all facilities shall comply
with the specific requirements applicable to aboveground service facilities as
set forth in subsection
9-13-8E of this code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the director of community
development may, upon the request and for good cause shown, vary the
requirements set forth herein.
         b.   Compliance With Tree And Vegetation Protection: All work pursuant
to this section shall be subject to the tree preservation requirements of
section
9-13-3 of this code and all tree, vegetation and landscaping requirements of
the "Public Improvements Standards Manual".
         c.   Chemicals: Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals is
prohibited on rights of way unless the permittee demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the village engineer that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control.
         d.   Maintaining Landscaping Requirements: The owner of a facility, or
owner's successors, assigns or lessors shall maintain all landscaping and
screening in accordance with this code. In the event that said owner, owner's
successors, assigns or lessors fail to maintain all landscaping and screening,
the village shall have the authority, but not the obligation, to maintain the
same and charge the owner, owner's successors, assigns or lessors for the
reasonable costs of said work (including, but not limited to, materials and
labor). If the owner, owner's successors, assigns or lessors fail to pay said
costs within thirty (30) days of the receipt of an invoice therefor, the
village shall have the authority to withdraw said cost from any financial
security provided to the village by the owner, owner's successors, assigns or
lessors, regardless if said security is related to the facility. The village
shall have the authority to cite the owner, owner's successors, assigns or
lessors for failure to maintain landscaping and screening pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code.
      10.   Removal, Relocation, Or Modification Of Facilities:
         a.   Notice: Within thirty (30) days following written notice from the
village, a permittee shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily
or permanently disconnect or remove, relocate, change or alter the position of
any facilities within the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change, or alteration is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or upon,
the rights of way.
         b.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days
following written notice from the village, any permittee that owns, controls,
or maintains any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the
public rights of way shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such
facilities or appurtenances from the public rights of way.
         c.   Subject To Removal: A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
            (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
            (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the
prior grant of a license or franchise, if required;
            (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior
issuance of a required permit in violation of this code; or
            (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location
not permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
      11.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains
the right and privilege to remove any facility located within the rights of way
of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the village shall attempt to notify the permittee, if known, prior to
removing a facility and shall notify the permittee, if known, after removing a
facility.
      12.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within
the public rights of way of the village, the utility shall notify the village
within thirty (30) days via certified mail to the village administrator.
Following receipt of such notice the village may consent to the facility being
abandoned in place; however, if the village does not provide such written
consent within ten (10) days of receiving the utility's notice, the utility
shall remove the facility in its entirety within thirty (30) days of receipt of
the village notice.
      13.   Cleanup And Restoration: The permittee shall remove all excess
material and restore all turf and terrain and other property within ten (10)
days after any portion of the public rights of way are disturbed, damaged or
destroyed due to construction by the permittee, all to the satisfaction of the
village. This includes restoration of entrances and side roads. Restoration of
roadway surfaces shall be made using materials and methods approved by the
village engineer. Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of
backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to
restore the right of way to a condition substantially equivalent to that which
existed prior to the commencement of the project.
      14.   Landscape Restoration:
         a.   All trees, landscaping and grounds removed, damaged or disturbed
as a result of the construction, installation, maintenance, repair or
replacement of facilities, whether such work is done pursuant to a franchise,
license, or permit, shall be replaced or restored to the condition existing
prior to performance of work.
         b.   All restoration work within the public ways shall be done in
accordance with landscape plans approved by the village engineer and within
fourteen (14) days after completion of construction. All restoration work shall
be temporarily secured at the direction of the village engineer until such
restoration is complete. Landscape restorations shall be watered sufficiently
to establish such items. The time period provided herein may be extended by the
village engineer for good cause shown. In the event such cleanup and
restoration activities are not completed in a timely manner, no further
construction activities by the permittee will be permitted to occur until the
restoration and cleanup has been completed to the satisfaction of the village.
      15.   Restoration Of Improvements: Upon completion of any construction
work, the permittee shall promptly repair or replace any and all public
property and improvements, fixtures, structures and facilities in the public
ways, or elsewhere damaged during the course of construction, restoring the
same to its condition before the start of construction.
      16.   Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance:
         a.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across,
or within rights of way shall be maintained by or for the permittee in a manner
satisfactory to the village at all times and at the permittee's sole expense.
         b.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify
noncompliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
            (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of
the right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all
necessary protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of
way including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard
does not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as
to require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair
operations, adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the
shoulder in such an emergency will only be permitted when no other means of
access to the facility is available.
            (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible,
notify the village engineer or his or her duly authorized agent, of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately by the
utility.
            (3)   In an emergency, the permittee shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
         c.   Emergency Repairs: The permittee must file in writing with the
village a description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within
forty eight (48) hours after an emergency repair.
      17.   Engineer's Certification: All permit applications shall be
accompanied by the certification of a registered professional engineer that the
drawings, plans and specifications submitted with the application comply with
all applicable technical codes, rules and regulations.
      18.   Issuance Of Permit: Within forty five (45) days after submission of
all plans and documents required of the applicant and payment of the permit
fees required by this section, the village engineer, if satisfied that the
applications, plans and documents comply with all requirements of this section,
shall issue a permit authorizing construction of the facilities, subject to
such further conditions, restrictions or regulations affecting the time, place
and manner of performing the work as he or she may deem necessary or
appropriate.
      19.   Construction Schedule: The permittee shall submit a written
construction schedule to the village engineer ten (10) working days before
commencing any work in or about the public ways. The permittee shall further
notify the village engineer not less than five (5) working days in advance of
any excavation or work in the public ways. The village may require that the
permittee provide various types of public notification, at the permittee's
expense, to those parties and adjacent property owners that would be impacted
by the operations.
      20.   Compliance With Permit: All construction practices and activities
shall be in accordance with the permit and approved final plans and
specifications for the facilities; provided, however, that upon request of the
permittee, the village engineer may approve alterations with respect to the
approved plans and specifications which are typically handled as field changes
in the construction industry. The village engineer and his representatives
shall be provided access to the work and such further information as he or she
may require to ensure compliance with such requirements.
      21.   Display Of Permit: The permittee shall maintain a copy of the
construction permit and approved plans at the construction site, which shall be
displayed and made available for inspection by the village engineer or his
representatives at all times when construction work is occurring.
      22.   Survey Of Underground Facilities: If the construction permit
specifies the location of facilities by depth, line, grade, proximity to other
facilities or other standard, the permittee shall cause the location of such
facilities to be verified by a registered Illinois land surveyor. The permittee
shall relocate any facilities which are not located in compliance with permit
requirements.
      23.   Noncomplying Work: Upon order of the village engineer, all work
which does not comply with the permit, the approved plans and specifications
for the work, or the requirements of this section, shall be removed.
      24.   Completion Of Construction: The permittee shall promptly complete
all construction activities so as to minimize disruption of the public ways and
other public and private property. All construction work authorized by a permit
within public ways, including restoration, must be completed within one hundred
twenty (120) days of the date of issuance.
      25.   Record Drawings: Within sixty (60) days after completion of
construction, the permittee shall submit one complete set of twenty four inch
by thirty six inch (24" x 36") mylar drawings, and reproducible drawings in the
scanned digital format TIFF (tag image file format) or in another electronic
version specified by the village or an equivalent approved by the village
engineer, accurately depicting the location of all facilities constructed
pursuant to the permit.
      26.   Construction Surety: Prior to issuance of a construction permit,
the permittee shall provide a security, as provided in subsections G20 and G21
of this section.
      27.   Exceptions: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, or by applicable law, all telecommunications carriers and utility
providers are subject to the requirements of this subsection H.
      28.   Responsibility Of Owner: The owner of the facilities to be
constructed and, if different, the licensee or franchisee are responsible for
performance of and compliance with all provisions of this section. (Ord. 2016-
47, 12-15-2016; amd. Ord. 2025-19, 5-15-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq.
7-1-6: MAILBOXES IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY:
When required by Federal rules and regulations, a single mailbox per
residential or commercial address may be installed upon the public right-of-way
under the jurisdiction of the Village.
Any mailbox or support structure lawfully located in or upon the public right-
of-way which is damaged by the Village through an act or omission of one acting
as an agent or employee thereof shall be repaired or replaced by the Village;
however, should the homeowner object to the proposed repair/replacement, the
homeowner shall have the right to make such repair/replacement and the Village
shall reimburse the owner for the actual cost of such repair/replacement, but
in no event shall the amount of reimbursement exceed two hundred dollars
($200.00). (Ord. 2009-05, 3-19-2009)
7-1-7: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose And Scope:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish regulations,
standards, and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of- way on property zoned by the Village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Act, as defined herein.
      2.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This section supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
      3.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
section, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
section to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except as
otherwise stated or where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
ACT: The Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, 50 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 840/1, et seq.
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including, without limitation, the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the Village for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
AUTHORITY: A unit of local government that has jurisdiction and control for use
of public rights-of-way as provided by the Illinois Highway Code for placements
within public rights-of-way or has zoning or land use control for placements
not within public rights-of-way. Authority specifically includes, without
limitation, the Village.
AUTHORITY UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by an authority.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended;
information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: 1) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or 2) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or Historic District by an ordinance adopted by the authority
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office is pending.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
PERMIT: A written authorization required by the Village to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of- way does not include Village-owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: 1) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and 2) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
VILLAGE: Village of Woodridge.
VILLAGE UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the Village in public
rights-of-way.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
1) equipment associated with wireless communications; and 2) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: 1) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or 2) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications services in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the Village.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self- supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole.
   C.   Requirements And Regulations:
      1.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities are permitted uses and
subject to administrative review, except as provided in subsection C2e of this
section regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to zoning
review or approval if they are collocated: a) in rights-of-way in any zoning
district, or b) outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for
commercial or industrial use.
      2.   Permit Required: An applicant is required to obtain one or more
permits from the Village to collocate a small wireless facility. The Village
shall receive and process applications, and issue permits, subject to the
following requirements:
         a.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The Village may reserve space on
authority utility poles for future public safety uses or for the Village's
electric utility uses. Such reservation of space may preclude the collocation
of a small wireless facility if the Village reasonably determines that the
authority utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
         b.   Application Form: An applicant shall submit an application, to
include all required accompanying information and application fee(s), on a form
created and amended from time to time, as needed and in accordance with this
section and the Act, by the Village's Community Development Director or his/her
designee(s).
         c.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall be required
to provide the following information with its application when seeking a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
            (1)   Site specific structural integrity and, for an authority
utility pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that
term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989;
            (2)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed;
            (3)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural
engineer, as that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering
Practice Act of 1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the
application as it is proposed to be installed;
            (4)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
            (5)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of
each small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
            (6)   Certification that the collocation complies with the
requirements set forth in subsection C2f of this section, to the best of the
applicant's knowledge.
         d.   Alternate Placements: With respect to an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility pole,
the Village may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one hundred
feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
The Village may require the applicant to provide a written certification
describing the property rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the
alternate location does not satisfy the criteria in this subsection.
         e.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless
facility is ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support structure
on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
Subject to any applicable waiver, zoning, or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for an exception or variance and does not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances, the height of new or replacement
utility poles or wireless support structures on which small wireless facilities
are collocated is limited to the higher of:
            (1)   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility
pole, other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in
place on the date the application is submitted to the Village, that is located
within three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or
wireless support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the Village, provided the Village may designate
which intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the
proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height
limitation for such facility; or
            (2)   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
         f.   Requirements:
            (1)   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
            (2)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities
of the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency's communications equipment.
            (3)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured
in accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
            (4)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and
the wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall take all
reasonable steps necessary to correct and eliminate the interference,
including, but not limited to, powering down the small wireless facility and
later powering up the small wireless facility for intermittent testing, if
necessary.
            (5)   The Village may terminate a permit for a small wireless
facility based on the interference described in this subsection C2f if the
wireless provider is not making a good faith effort to remedy the problem in a
manner consistent with the abatement and resolution procedures for interference
with public safety spectrum established by the FCC including 47 CFR 22.970
through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR 90.675.
            (6)   The wireless provider shall comply with requirements that are
imposed by a contract between the Village and a private property owner that
concern design or construction standards applicable to utility poles and
ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
            (7)   The wireless provider shall comply with applicable spacing
requirements in applicable codes and ordinances concerning the location of
ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of- way if the requirements
include a waiver, zoning, or other process that addresses wireless provider
requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit granting of such
exceptions or variances.
            (8)   The wireless provider shall comply with local code provisions
or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements that prohibit the
installation of new or the modification of existing utility poles in a right-
of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a waiver, zoning, or
other process that addresses requests to install such new utility poles or
modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the replacement of
utility poles.
            (9)   The wireless provider shall comply with generally applicable
standards that are consistent with the Act and adopted by an authority for
construction and public safety in the rights-of-way, including, but not limited
to, reasonable and nondiscriminatory wiring and cabling requirements, grounding
requirements, utility pole extension requirements, and signage limitations; and
shall comply with reasonable and nondiscriminatory requirements that are
consistent with the Act and adopted by an authority regulating the location,
size, surface area and height of small wireless facilities, or the abandonment
and removal of small wireless facilities.
            (10)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on Village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution
or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole
or the electric supply zone of the pole.
   (A) However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the Village utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
   (B) For purposes of this subsection C2f, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
            (11)   The wireless provider shall comply with the applicable codes
and local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
            (12)   The wireless provider shall comply with the following
stealth, concealment, and aesthetic requirements as concerning the small
wireless facilities: all materials shall be colors that blend with the
surroundings of the utility pole on which the facilities are mounted; the use
of reflective materials is prohibited; small wireless facility component
materials must blend with the materials and colors of the surrounding area and
structures; and any wiring must be covered with appropriate covers or cable
shields meeting the aforementioned coloring requirements.
            (13)   Subject to subsection C1 of this section, and except for
facilities excluded from evaluation for effects on historic properties under 47
CFR 1.1307(a)(4), the applicant shall undertake reasonable, technically
feasible and non- discriminatory design or concealment measures in a Historic
District or historic landmark, as follows:
   (A) Such design and concealment measures shall not be considered a part of
the small wireless facility for purposes of the size restrictions of a small
wireless facility.
   (B) This subsection shall not be construed to limit an authority's
enforcement of historic preservation in conformance with the requirements
adopted pursuant to the Illinois State Agency Historic Resources Preservation
Act or the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 54 USC section 300101 et
seq., and the regulations adopted to implement those laws.
         g.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after
receiving an application, the Village shall determine whether the application
is complete and notify the applicant accordingly. If an application is
determined to be incomplete, the Village shall specifically identify the
missing information. Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the Village
sends the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the
missing information.
         h.   Application Process: The Village shall process applications as
follows:
            (1)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and approved or denied within ninety (90) days, subject
to tolling provisions herein.
            (2)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and approved or denied within one hundred twenty (120)
days, subject to tolling provisions herein.
            (3)   If the Village determines that applicable codes, local code
provisions or regulations that concern public safety, or the requirements of
subsection C2f of this section require that the utility pole or wireless
support structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval may be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            (4)   The Village shall document the basis for a denial, including
the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial was
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
Village denies an application.
            (5)   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
Village and resubmit the revised application once within thirty (30) days after
notice of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional
application fee. The Village shall approve or deny the revised application
within thirty (30) days after the applicant resubmits the application.
            (6)   Any subsequent review shall be limited to the deficiencies
cited in the denial. However, this revised application cure does not apply if
the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to
be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with
the small wireless facility.
         i.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled
by:
            (1)   The express agreement in writing by both the applicant and
the Village; or
            (2)   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
         j.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate
small wireless facilities entirely within the jurisdiction of the Village shall
be allowed, at the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application
and receive a single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small
wireless facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same
type of small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the Village may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The Village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
         k.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit
is granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after
issuance of the permit, unless the Village and the wireless provider agree to
extend this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for an authority
utility pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the
site, provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty
(60) days after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul
services, and the additional time to complete installation does not exceed
three hundred sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the
permit shall be void unless the Village grants an extension in writing to the
applicant.
         l.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a
period of five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the Village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities
or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable codes or
local code provisions or regulations in subsections C2f and C2h of this
section.
If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 of the Act, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable Village code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
         m.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, all supporting materials and applicable fee(s), and notices by
personal delivery at the Village Hall, addressed to the attention of the
Village's Community Development Director or his/her designee.
   D.   Application Fees: The following application fees are imposed:
      1.   For applications that do not include new utility poles, the
application fees are as follows: Six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00) for an
application to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure and three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application to
collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing utility poles or
wireless support structures.
      2.   For applications that include the installation of a new utility
pole, the application fee is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each small
wireless facility addressed in such application.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section must be accompanied by the
required application fee or the application will be deemed incomplete.
      4.   No application, approval, permit, fees or other charges shall be
required from a communications service provider authorized to occupy the
rights-of-way for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with the requirements of subsection C2c of this section;
or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or
replacement of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables that are
strung between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety
Codes.
         d.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, permit to work within rights-of-
way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require lane closures shall
be required.
   E.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this section authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the Village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately-owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a Park District, Forest
Preserve District, or Conservation District for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or property owned by a
rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code,
Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter rail service, or an electric
utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public Utilities Act, without the
consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or electric utility.
The provisions of this section do not apply to an electric or gas public
utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the facilities are being used,
developed, and maintained consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of
section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
      3.   For the purposes of this section, "public utility" has the meaning
given to that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: a)
to obtain a franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or
video service or b) to obtain any required permission to install, place,
maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless
facilities subject to this section.
   F.   Annual Recurring Rate:
      1.   An annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a
Village utility pole located in a right-of-way that equals: a) two hundred
dollars ($200.00) per year or b) the actual, direct, and reasonable costs
related to the wireless provider's use of space on the Village utility pole, is
hereby imposed.
      2.   Rates for collocation on Village utility poles located outside of a
right-of-way are not subject to these limitations.
   G.   Aerial Facilities: For Village utility poles that support aerial
facilities used to provide communications services or electric service,
wireless providers shall comply with the process for make-ready work under 47
USC 224 and its implementing regulations.
   H.   Abandonment:
      1.   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned and the owner of the
facility must remove the small wireless facility within ninety (90) days after
receipt of written notice from the Village notifying the owner of the
abandonment.
      2.   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the Village to the owner at the last known address of the
owner. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety (90) days of
such notice, the Village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for authority utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
      3.   A wireless provider shall provide the Village with written notice if
it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdictional
boundary of the Village. Such notice shall include the name and contact
information of the new wireless provider.
   I.   Indemnification, Insurance, And Severability:
      1.   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the Village harmless
against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage
resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of
the authority improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by
the wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of
the rights and privileges granted under this section and the Act. A wireless
provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the
Village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any
claims that they may have against the Village with respect to consequential,
incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the theory of
liability.
      2.   During the period in which a wireless provider's facilities are
located on the authority's improvements or rights-of-way, the wireless provider
shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and expense, the following
insurance: a) property insurance for its property's replacement cost against
all risks; b) workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; and c)
commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities on the
authority improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection limits
consistent with its requirements of other users of authority improvements or
rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage. The
wireless provider shall include the Village as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the Village in a commercial general liability policy as
reasonably required by the Village.
      3.   If any provision of this section or application thereof to any
person or circumstances is ruled unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this section
that can be given effect without the invalid application or provision, and each
invalid provision or invalid application of this section is severable. (Ord.
2019-9, 3-21-2019)
CHAPTER 2
GOLF COURSES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Season Pass
7-2-3: Daily Greens Fees
7-2-4: Tee Times
7-2-5: Equipment Rental; Range Pass
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
JUNIOR: A minor child eleven (11) to seventeen (17) years of age.
NONRESIDENT: A person residing outside the corporate limits of the Village.
RESIDENT: A person residing within the corporate limits of the Village.
RESIDENT CARD: Evidence issued by the Village that a person is entitled to
resident greens fees.
SENIOR: A person sixty five (65) years of age or older.
SPECIAL OUTING CLUB: A golf competition club that utilizes a minimum of ten
(10) tee times per week. (Ord. 95-13, 2-23-1995)
7-2-2: SEASON PASS:
   Issuance; Term: Season passes shall be issued by various classifications.
A. Season passes shall entitle the holder to playing privileges as provided by
   type of pass. Season passes shall expire on December 31 of each calendar
   year.
   Discounted Season Pass Fees: Fees for season passes purchased prior to the
B. May 1 preceding the season for which the pass is to be effective shall be as
   follows:
  1. Resident:
  Single         $ 750.00
   Married couple  1,200.00
  2. Nonresident:
  Single         1,200.00
   Married couple  1,920.00
   Regular Season Pass Fees: Fees for season passes purchased on or after May 1
C. in the calendar year for which the pass is to be effective shall be as
   follows:
  1. Resident:
  Single         $ 900.00
   Married couple  1,440.00
  2. Nonresident:
  Single         1,440.00
   Married couple  2,300.00
 
(Ord. 95-13, 2-23-1995)
7-2-3: DAILY GREENS FEES:
   A.   Golf Discount Cards:
      1.   Residents: "Residents", as defined in Section
7-2-1 of this Chapter, desiring to be eligible for resident regular daily fees,
shall be required to purchase a resident golf discount card. Said card may be
obtained by presenting a current year vehicle license receipt or suitable
identification and paying a fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
      2.   Nonresident Juniors And Seniors: "Nonresident juniors" or "seniors",
as defined in Section
7-2-1 of this Chapter, desiring to be eligible for nonresident regular daily
fees, shall be required to purchase a nonresident golf discount card. Said card
may be obtained by presenting a current year vehicle license receipt or
suitable identification and paying a fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
Said discount card shall be required to be presented each and every time holder
makes payment for a greens fee. Persons not presenting said card shall be
charged the applicable nonresident fee. (Ord. 95-13, 2-23-1995)
   B.   Daily Greens Fees Established:
1. Regular Daily Greens Fees:
   a. Weekdays - 18 holes:
  
 (1) Resident:
  
 Until 2:00 P.M.                         $16.50
 Between 2:00 P.M. and 4:00 P.M.         14.00
 After 4:00 P.M.                         10.50
 Junior, until 2:00 P.M.                 11.00
 Junior, after 2:00 P.M.                 9.00
 Senior, until 2:00 P.M.                 11.00
 Senior, after 2:00 P.M.                 9.00
  
 (2) Nonresident:
  
 Until 2:00 P.M.                         $26.00
 Between 2:00 P.M. and 4:00 P.M.         19.00
 After 4:00 P.M.                         15.00
 Junior, until 2:00 P.M.                 16.50
 Junior, after 2:00 P.M.                 14.00
 Senior, until 2:00 P.M.                 16.50
 Senior, after 2:00 P.M.                 14.00
  
 (3) High School Teams:
  
 District 99                             $14.00
 All other districts                     15.50
   b. Weekdays - 9 holes:
  
 (1) Resident:
  
 Single                                  $10.50
 Junior, after 2:00 P.M.                 6.00
 Senior, after 2:00 P.M.                 8.00
  
 (2) Nonresident:
  
 Single                                  $15.00
 Junior, after 2:00 P.M.                 9.00
 Senior, after 2:00 P.M.                 12.00
  
 (3) High School Teams:
  
 District 99                             $ 9.00
 All other districts                     11.00
   c. Weekends And Holidays - 18 holes:
  
 (1) Resident:
  
 Until 4:00 P.M.                         $19.00
 After 4:00 P.M.                         10.50
  
 (2) Nonresident:
  
 Until 4:00 P.M.                         $29.00
 After 4:00 P.M.                         15.00
   d. Weekends And Holidays - 9 holes:
  
 (1) Resident:
  
 Before 8:00 A.M.                        $14.00
 After 4:00 P.M.                         10.50
  
 (2) Nonresident:
  
 Before 8:00 A.M.                        $19.00
 After 4:00 P.M.                         15.00
2. Winter Daily Greens Fees:
   a. Weekdays - 18 holes:
  
 (1) Resident:
  
 Single, before 2:00 P.M.                $12.50
 Single, between 2:00 P.M.                  10.00
  and 4:00 P.M.   
 Single, after 4:00 P.M.                 8.50
 Junior, before 2:00 P.M.                9.00
 Junior, after 2:00 P.M.                 8.00
 Senior, before 2:00 P.M.                9.00
 Senior, after 2:00 P.M.                 8.00
  
 (2) Nonresident:
  
 Single, before 2:00 P.M.                $20.00
 Single, between 2:00 P.M. and 4:00 P.M.  15.00
 Single, after 4:00 P.M.                 12.00
 Junior, before 2:00 P.M.                13.00
 Junior, after 2:00 P.M.                 12.00
 Senior, before 2:00 P.M.                13.00
 Senior, after 2:00 P.M.                 12.00
   b. Weekdays - 9 holes:
  
 (1) Resident:
  
 Single                                  $8.50
 Junior                                  6.00
 Senior                                  8.00
  
 (2) Nonresident:
  
 Single                                  $12.00
 Junior                                  9.00
 Senior                                  12.00
   c. Weekends And Holidays - 18 holes:
  
 (1) Resident                            $15.00
 (2) Nonresident                         22.00
   d. Weekends And Holidays - 9 holes:
  
 (1) Resident                            $ 8.50
 (2) Nonresident                         12.75
 
(Ord. 95-65, 12-14-1995)
7-2-4: TEE TIMES:
   A.   Permanent Tee Time Policy And Fees:
      1.   Availability: Permanent tee times (18 holes only) shall be available
to any person (resident and nonresident) for weekends on Saturday from five
thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M. to eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) A.M., Sundays from
five thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and alternate
Sundays from eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. to eleven fifty three o'clock (11:53)
A.M. Permanent tee times (9 holes only) shall be available to any person
(resident and nonresident) for weekends on Saturday and Sunday from five thirty
o'clock (5:30) A.M. to six forty five o'clock (6:45) A.M. All such tee times
are available subject to the following:
         a.   Permanent tee times shall be issued to foursomes only. A foursome
shall consist of four (4) named persons and/or two (2) named alternative
individuals.
         b.   Notice shall be given to the pro shop before five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. on the Thursday before each weekend if the permanent tee time is to be
canceled or there will not be a complete foursome.
Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to the contrary, permanent tee
times (18 holes only) shall be available to special outing clubs on Sundays
commencing at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.; provided, however, special outing clubs
must comply with the provisions of this Section.
      2.   Priority Assignment Of Tee Times: Foursomes who desire to maintain
their permanent tee time shall, within thirty (30) days of being notified by
the Village, commit to their permanent tee time as provided for herein.
      3.   Lotteries For Tee Times: After the assignment of tee times on the
priority basis, as provided for in subsection
7-2-4A2 above, a lottery shall be conducted for the remaining tee times, with
lottery priorities as follows:
         a.   Priority A: Present permanent tee time holders in good standing
that would like to change their time.
         b.   Priority B: Foursome of four (4) Woodridge residents.
         c.   Priority C: Foursome of three (3) Woodridge residents and one
nonresident.
         d.   Priority D: Foursome of two (2) Woodridge residents and two (2)
nonresidents.
         e.   Priority E: Foursome of one Woodridge resident and three (3)
nonresidents.
      4.   Fees:
         a.   A foursome requesting an eighteen (18) hole permanent tee time
shall be charged the amount of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00)
nonrefundable, for each time requested. Notwithstanding any provision contained
herein to the contrary, special outing clubs shall not be subject to the said
one hundred fifty dollar ($150.00) fee. A foursome requesting an alternate
Sunday eighteen (18) hole permanent tee time shall be charged the amount of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nonrefundable, for each time requested. A
foursome requesting a nine (9) hole permanent tee time shall be charged the
amount of seventy five dollars ($75.00) nonrefundable, for each time requested.
         b.   Prior to play, each permanent time will be responsible for four
(4) greens fees, unless notice has been given in accordance with subsection
7-2-4A1b above. In the event the required notice is not given, the permanent
tee time holders shall be assessed a cash amount equal to the prevailing
weekend resident or nonresident rate for each member of the foursome not
present to play.
         c.   Greens fees as provided in subsection
7-2-4A4b above shall be paid prior to the tee time that day.
      5.   Forfeiture:
         a.   Any infraction of the permanent tee time policy as outlined in
this subsection shall result in loss of permanent tee time.
         b.   Repeat offenders of "keep pace policies" will lose permanent tee
time.
   B.   Reservation Policy And Fees:
      1.   Reservation Policy: The golf course will accept tee time
reservations seven (7) days a week for a minimum of two (2) individuals and a
maximum of four (4) individuals per tee time. Resident season pass and resident
card holders may call seven (7) days in advance; others may call five (5) days
in advance.
      2.   Fees: A Visa/Mastercard deposit on greens fees will be required for
securing a tee time on weekends and holidays. The deposit shall be refundable
if cancellation of tee time is made twenty four (24) hours prior to tee time.
(Ord. 95-13, 2-23-1995)
7-2-5: EQUIPMENT RENTAL; RANGE PASS:
   A.   Power Carts: Power carts shall be available for rental on basis of
eighteen (18) and nine (9) hole rates. One power cart per twosome and two (2)
power carts per threesome or foursome. The rental rates shall be as follows:
 
18 holes          $24.00
18 holes (single)  12.25
9 holes           16.00
9 holes (single)  8.00
 
(Ord. 95-22, 5-25-1995)
   B.   Hand Carts: Hand carts shall be available for rental on basis of
eighteen (18) and nine (9) hole rates, as follows:
 
18 holes  $2.00
9 holes  1.00
 
   C.   Golf Clubs:
      1.   Deposit: Persons renting golf clubs shall be required to supply a
valid driver's license or other suitable identification. Upon return of said
clubs and after inspection for damages by authorized personnel, the driver's
license, or other suitable identification, will be returned. For any lost,
stolen or broken clubs, a twenty dollar ($20.00) per club fee will be charged.
      2.   Rental Rates: Rental rates are as follows:
 
18 holes  $15.00
9 holes  10.00
 
(Ord. 95-13, 2-23-1995)
   D.   Locker Rentals: Locker rental rates are as follows:
 
Seasonal single - bag room              $45.00
Seasonal single - clothes locker        30.00
Seasonal single - bag and clothes combo  65.00
Daily                                   2.00
 
(Ord. 95-65, 12-14-1995)
   E.   Towel Fees: Towels will be available to course users on a per diem rate
of     $2.00
   F.   Practice Range Fees:
1. Range Balls And Bucket:
 Small                $2.00
 Large                3.50
2. Driving Range Card:
 15 large bucket card  $45.00
 
(Ord. 95-13, 2-23-1995)
CHAPTER 3
PARADES AND PROCESSIONS 1 ; OPEN AIR MEETINGS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Permits Required; Exceptions
7-3-2: Application For Permit
7-3-3: Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Of Permit
7-3-4: Restrictions On Issuance Of Permit
7-3-5: Denial Of Permit; Alternative Permit
7-3-6: Bond
7-3-7: Duties Of Permittee
7-3-8: Public Conduct During Parades
7-3-9: Revocation Of Permit
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-4-14 of this code.
7-3-1: PERMITS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
No person or organization shall conduct, participate in, aid, form or start any
parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, open air public meeting or
procession of any kind, or any similar display, in or upon any street, park, or
other public place in the village unless a parade permit shall have been
obtained from the chief of police of the village pursuant to this chapter and a
special events permit shall have been obtained from the village administrator
of the village pursuant to title 3, chapter 4, article D of this code.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to funeral or wedding
processions. (Ord. 2007-35, 6-7-2007)
7-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
The person or persons in charge or in control of an event described in section
7-3-1 of this chapter shall make application for a parade permit with the chief
of police, on forms provided by the chief, at least twenty one (21) days prior
to the event.
The application for the parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
   A.   The name, address and telephone number of the person or organization
seeking to conduct such event;
   B.   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be the
parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
   C.   The date when the event is to be conducted, the desired time of
starting, and the probable duration thereof;
   D.   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination point,
and the location of any assembly areas for such parade;
   E.   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles which,
will constitute such parade or event, the type of animals and description of
vehicles;
   F.   If the event is designed to be held by and on behalf of or for any
person other than the applicant, the applicant for such permit shall file with
the chief of police a communication in writing from the person proposing to
hold the parade authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his
behalf;
   G.   The purpose of the event;
   H.   Any additional information which the chief of police shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be
issued. (1976 Code §19-303)
7-3-3: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Upon such application being made, the chief of police shall investigate or
cause to be investigated the person or organization making application of the
truth of the statements made in the application regarding the purpose or object
of the event for which application for a parade permit is made. The chief of
police shall act upon the application within five (5) days after the receipt of
said application. (1976 Code §19-303)
7-3-4: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The chief of police shall issue a permit as provided hereunder when, from a
consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, he finds that:
   A.   The event is not to be held for any unlawful purpose;
   B.   The conduct of the event will not unnecessarily interfere with the
public use of the public ways;
   C.   The conduct of the event will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the village to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection of the village;
   D.   The event will not be a breach of the peace or unnecessarily interfere
with the peace and quiet of the inhabitants of the village;
   E.   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly area;
   F.   The conduct of the event will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire or other emergency. (1976 Code §19-
304)
7-3-5: DENIAL OF PERMIT; ALTERNATIVE PERMIT:
The chief of police in denying an application for a parade permit may authorize
the conduct of the event on a date, at a time or over a route different from
that designated by the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate
permit shall, within ten (10) days after notice of the action of the chief of
police, but not less than three (3) days prior to the event, file a written
notice of acceptance with the chief. An alternate parade permit shall conform
to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit under this
chapter. (1976 Code §19-305)
7-3-6: BOND:
If, in the opinion of the chief of police, a public liability bond is necessary
for the protection of the lives and property rights of the citizens of
Woodridge, the chief may set a reasonable bond as a condition for the issuance
of a parade permit. The chief shall immediately notify the applicant of the
bond requirements and set forth his reasons for the determination of the need
for the bond and the amount required. (1976 Code §19-307)
7-3-7: DUTIES OF PERMITTEE:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: A permittee hereunder shall comply with all
permit directions and conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   B.   Possession Of Permit: The parade chairman or other person heading or
leading such activity shall carry the parade permit upon his person during the
conduct of the event. (1976 Code §19-306)
7-3-8: PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES:
   A.   Interference: No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct or impede,
or interfere with any parade, parade assembly or other event covered by this
chapter or with any person, vehicle or animal participating or used in such
event.
   B.   Driving Through Parade: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the
vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in
motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade.
   C.   Parking On Parade Route: The chief of police shall have the authority,
when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles
along a highway or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade.
The chief of police shall post signs to such effect, and it shall be unlawful
for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No
person shall be liable for parking on a street unposted in violation of this
chapter. (1976 Code §19-308)
7-3-9: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The chief of police shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued
hereunder upon noncompliance with the standards for issuance as herein set
forth. (1976 Code §19-309)
CHAPTER 4
TREES AND PLANTS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Jurisdiction
7-4-2: Village Authority
7-4-3: Permit Requirements
7-4-4: Species Of Trees Permitted
7-4-5: Planting Requirements
7-4-6: Trimming Or Removing Trees
7-4-7: Prohibited Acts
7-4-8: Violation And Penalty
7-4-1: JURISDICTION:
The Village values its urban forest as infrastructure and this chapter shall
govern the planting, removal and maintenance of trees, shrubs, and other
plantings in, on or over any street, right-of-way or other public property
("public way") under the jurisdiction of the Village, in order to protect and
preserve trees, shrubs, and other plantings and the benefits this vegetation
provides the Village. The terms used herein shall be as defined by the
International Society of Arboriculture (ISA), American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) A300, and Village Code. In the event of a conflict between the
definition of those terms, the Director of Public Works or authorized designee
shall determine the appropriate definition to be utilized. (Ord. 2019-41, 9-19-
2019; amd. Ord. 2023-1, 1-19-2023)
7-4-2: VILLAGE AUTHORITY:
The Director of Public Works or an authorized representative is hereby
empowered to superintend, regulate the planting, preservation, protection,
removal, and maintenance of trees on or over any street, right-of-way or other
public property ("public way") under jurisdiction of the Village. The Village
shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove any and all plantings
in public ways when the Village, in its sole discretion, deems it necessary.
The Village may consult with a certified arborist when necessary in the
administration of the regulations contained herein. (Ord. 2001-07, 3-22-2001;
amd. Ord. 2023-1, 1-19-2023)
7-4-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to plant, place, trim, remove,
treat, damage, cut, tap, carve, transplant or attach a rope, wire, nail, sign,
poster or any other object to any tree, shrub or other planting in any public
way without having first obtained a permit therefor.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for a permit shall be made in
writing to the Director of Public Works and shall contain such information as
the Director of Public Works may, from time to time, require. Application forms
shall be available from the Director of Public Works. In the absence of the
needed permission, the Director of Public Works or an authorized representative
may require removal of any unapproved tree or woody plant, either by the
property owner or Public Works crews.
   C.   Issuance Of Permit: The Director of Public Works or his representative
shall issue a permit within fourteen (14) days after a complete application is
filed, provided the work to be performed is in compliance with all provisions
of this Code. Permits may contain such conditions as the Director of Public
Works deems necessary for the proper administration of this chapter and to
ensure compliance with this Code. (Ord. 2001-07, 3-22-2001)
7-4-4: SPECIES OF TREES PERMITTED:
Trees to be planted in any public way shall be selected from the following
lists of authorized tree species, and/or other species as approved by the
Director of Public Works.
   A.   Large Trees: Only the following trees shall be planted in Village
public ways where the clear space between the back of curb and sidewalk is ten
feet (10') or greater:
Scientific Name Common Name
Scientific Name         Common Name
Aesculus glabra         Ohio buckeye
Celtis occidentalis     Common hackberry
Gingko biloba           Gingko (male only)
Gymnocladus dioica      Kentucky coffee tree
Liriodendron tulipifera Tulip tree
Quercus bicolor         Swamp white oak
Quercus ellipsoidalis   Northern pin oak
Quercus ellipsoidalis   Hill oak
Quercus macrocarpa      Bur oak
Quercus rubra           Northern red oak
Sophora japonica        Regent pagoda tree
Taxodium distichum      Bald cypress
Tilia americana         American linden
Tilia cordata           Little leaf linden
Ulmus hybrids           Hybrid elm
Ulmus parvifolia        Lacebark elm
 
   B.   Medium Trees: Only the following trees shall be planted in Village
public ways where the clear space between the back of curb and sidewalk is six
feet (6') or greater: (Ord. 2007-57, 10-11-2007)
Scientific Name Common Name
Scientific Name         Common Name
Acer nigrum             Black maple
Acer x freemanii        Freeman maples, hybrid
Carpinus caroliniana    American hornbeam
Corylus colurna         Turkish filbert
Gleditsia triacanthos   Shademaster locust
Gleditsia triacanthos   Skyline locust
Liquidambar styraciflua Sweetgum
Ostrya virginiana       American hophornbeam
Quercus muehlenbergii   Chinkapin oak
Tilia americana         American basswood
 
   C.   Small Trees: Only the following trees shall be planted in Village
public ways where the clear space between the back of curb and sidewalk is four
feet (4') to six feet (6') or with overhead utility lines:
 
Scientific Name     Common Name
Amelanchier         Serviceberry (tree form)
Cornus kousa        Kousa dogwood (tree form)
Crataegus crusgalli Thornless cockspur hawthorn
Crataegus viridis   Winter king hawthorn
Malus ssp.          Crabapple (disease resistant cultivars only)
Syringa reticulata  Japanese tree lilac (tree form)
 
(Ord. 2007-57, 10-11-2007; amd. Ord. 2019-41, 9-19-2019; Ord. 2020-11, 4-2-
2020)
7-4-5: PLANTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Spacing Of Trees: Spacing of trees in public ways shall be as follows:
 
             Minimum Maximum
Small trees  20 feet 30 feet
Medium trees 30 feet 45 feet
Large trees  45 feet 55 feet
 
between other new and/or existing shade trees, whether on public ways or
private property. Spacing of existing trees shall be brought into conformity
with the above distances through normal attrition and gradual planned removal
of undesirable and deformed trees. Where different sizes of trees are being
planted, the spacing requirement for the largest size tree being planted shall
control.
   B.   General Criteria:
      1.   All trees shall be grown in a nursery located in the northern half
of the State of Illinois and licensed by the State of Illinois. All trees shall
meet the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) American Standard for
Nursery Stock or otherwise be approved in advance by the Village or designee
who is a certified arborist.
      2.   Newly planted street trees shall not be less than three inches (3")
in caliper, unless otherwise approved by the Director of Public Works, measured
one foot (1') from the ground, shall have a continuous single stem branched at
a minimum of five feet (5') aboveground before pruning and shall be free from
deformity and any indication of undesirable growth characteristics.
      3.   Trees when planted shall be healthy, free of infectious disease,
insect infestation, bark bruises and scrapes on the trunk before and after
planting.
      4.   Planting of trees is prohibited if such planting will unduly
interfere with existing overhead utility lines when tree matures.
      5.   Trees shall be planted on the centerline of the public way, or in
line with majority of trees existing. No tree shall be planted on public ways
less than four feet (4') wide, unless in the judgment of the Director of Public
Works the species of tree approved will not endanger sidewalk, curb or other
physical property.
      6.   No tree shall be planted closer than twenty five feet (25') to any
street corner, measured from the point of the nearest intersecting curbs or
curb lines. No tree shall be planted closer than ten feet (10') to any fire
hydrant or driveway, or twenty feet (20') to any streetlight.
      7.   The perimeter of the planting hole shall extend a minimum of two
feet (2') beyond the sides of the root ball on all sides. The sides of the hole
shall gradually slope making the hole saucer shaped or bowl shaped. All trees
will be planted to the depth of the root collar. The root system of all trees
shall be balled and burlapped with a minimum root ball of thirty three inches
(33") for a three inch (3") in caliper tree.
      8.   The root flare shall be at grade or slightly higher and a doughnut-
like circle of soil shall be cultivated eight inches (8") to twelve inches
(12") deep and eighteen inches (18") wide around the root ball. A four inch
(4") layer of organic mulch shall be spread over the planting hole coming no
closer than six inches (6") to the trunk. The tree shall be initially watered
to remove any air pockets from the soil and later as necessary to maintain a
healthy, vigorous condition.
      9.   All tags, wires, plastic ties and rope shall be removed from each
tree to prevent girdling the tree. The burlap shall be pulled back from the
upper third of the root ball. If plastic burlap is used, it shall be removed in
its entirety from the root ball. The Village shall determine whether or not
staking is required.
      10.   The planting season shall be September 1 to December 1 and March 15
to June 15.
      11.   Tree planting and post planting tree care standards shall comply
with the latest version of the International Society of Arboriculture Best
Management Practices or other national recognized manual. (Ord. 2001-07, 3-22-
2001; amd. Ord. 2019-41, 9-19-2019; Ord. 2023-1, 1-19-2023)
7-4-6: TRIMMING OR REMOVING TREES:
   A.   Systemic trimming and pruning shall be carried out to accomplish the
following and shall comply with the latest International Society of
Arboriculture specification or other nationally recognized standard both for
time of year and method and shall be completed by or under the supervision of
an ISA Certified Arborist or other nationally recognized tree care
certification. Any party conducting, trimming, pruning, or removal of Village
trees must meet then current commercial general liability, auto, and workers
compensation insurance coverage requirements as defined by the Village’s
commercial insurance provider.
      1.   Removal of dead branches, seriously damaged branches and unbalanced
branches and limbs.
      2.   Gradual removal of lower branches to provide a minimum overhead
clearance of eight feet (8') over sidewalks and fourteen feet (14') over
streets.
      3.   Shaping of young trees so that they will develop a single tall
straight trunk, a strong central framework or branch structure and symmetrical
balance crown.
      4.   Reasonable removal of limbs that seriously interfere with or hinder
the proper development of adjacent public way and/or private trees.
   B.   No person shall, without written permission from the Director of Public
Works, remove, destroy, break, cut, deface, trim, injure or interfere with any
tree, shrub or woody plant growing in any public way.
   C.   All contractors, utilities or contractors working for utilities shall
not use climbing irons in trees on Village public ways for any purpose other
than removal of that tree or in an emergency.
   D.   Upon the removal of any tree located in a public way, the stump shall
be removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall
not project above the surface of the ground. The area shall then be restored by
placing four inches (4") of topsoil and seeded.
   E.   Any tree, limb of a tree, shrub, or other planting which overhangs any
public way in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel or
interferes with any public or Village utility or is dead, decaying or broken
and likely to fall on or across any public way, shall be removed or trimmed by
the owner of the property on which such tree stands or grows. Where the owner
has been properly notified of such hazard, and fails to remove same within a
specified time the Village may remove the hazard, at the owner's expense. The
failure of any owner to pay said expense when due shall constitute a violation
of this Code.
   F.   When a planned construction project is occurring that may impact
Village owned trees, the following steps shall be taken:
      1.   A tree protection fence shall be installed prior to the commencement
of grading or construction and located so as to protect the critical root zone
of all trees designated for protection by the Village. Said fence shall be
located no closer to each tree to be preserved than at the outside edge of each
tree's "critical root zone" or as confirmed by the Village.
      2.   Tree protection fencing shall consist of brightly colored plastic
mesh or snow fencing a minimum of forty eight inches (48") in height. It shall
be securely attached to metal fence posts that are driven into the ground and
that are spaced no more than eight feet (8') apart.
      3.   No encroachment, grading, trenching, filling, compaction, waste
dumping, concrete washout, change in soil chemistry, or storage of materials,
equipment or vehicles shall occur within the fenced areas.
      4.   When roots two inches (2") in diameter and greater must be severed,
the ends shall be cut cleanly with a saw under the supervision or direction of
an arborist certified by the International Society of Arboriculture. If the
roots are accidentally broken or crushed, the root shall be saw cut above the
ragged end. In all cases, the cut roots shall be immediately buried, mulched,
or otherwise kept moist to preserve viability.
      5.   Tree protection fencing shall remain in place until the completion
of construction, as determined by the Director of Public Works or designee.
   G.   In the event existing Village owned tree(s) need to be removed for a
planned construction project, which is not a Village project, the Village shall
review the tree(s) to be removed and determine the appropriate replacement
value, which shall not exceed the value found in the International Society of
Arboriculture Tree Valuation Guide.
   H.   In the event an existing Village owned tree is damaged or destroyed
without prior approval, or as the result of an accident, the responsible party
shall reimburse the Village for the value of the tree which shall not exceed
the value found in the International Society of Arboriculture Tree Valuation
Guide. The responsible party shall also be subject to penalties as set forth in
Section
7-4-8 herein. (Ord. 2001-07, 3-22-2001; amd. Ord. 2019-41, 9-19-2019; Ord.
2023-1, 1-19-2023)
7-4-7: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful to:
   A.   Permanently attach any house number, sign, poster placard, rope or
connect any electric or other wire, antenna, etc., to any tree on a public way
or permit any such wire to come in contact with a tree located on a public way.
   B.   Place, deposit, store or maintain any material or substance, which
impedes the free passage of water, air, or fertilizer to the roots of any tree,
shrub, or other plantings located within a public way.
   C.   Cause, suffer or permit any gas, fire, or any liquid or solid substance
to damage any tree, shrub or planting located within a public way. (Ord. 2001-
07, 3-22-2001)
   D.   Attach to, injure, remove, prune, top, or otherwise damage any tree,
shrub, or planting located within the public way. (Ord. 2019-41, 9-19-2019)
7-4-8: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provisions of this chapter.
Any person charged with the violation of this chapter may, in lieu of
prosecution for a violation thereof, make payment in accordance with section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 2001-07, 3-22-2001)
CHAPTER 5
WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. COMBINED WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
7-5A-1: Definitions
7-5A-2: Combined Utility
7-5A-3: Compliance With Provisions
7-5A-4: Supervision Of System
7-5A-5: Taps
7-5A-6: Construction Regulations
7-5A-7: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
7-5A-8: Fees And Charges
7-5A-9: Land Developments
7-5A-10: Damaging, Tampering With System
7-5A-11: Reports And Records
7-5A-12: Enforcement Of Provisions
7-5A-13: Connections Outside Village
7-5A-14: Utility Service Extension
7-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
APPLICANT: Any person who makes application for connection or extension to the
system.
APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method, or type of
construction intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All
devices used for approved backflow prevention devices in Illinois must meet the
standards of the Illinois plumbing code, the Illinois environmental protection
agency and the requirements herein.
APPROVED CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICES OR METHODS: Backflow prevention
devices or methods of installation approved by the mayor and board of trustees.
Such approved devices or methods shall include those as described in the "List
Of Approved Backflow Prevention Assemblies", dated August 7, 1987, published by
the Foundation For Cross-Connection Control And Hydraulic Research, University
Of Southern California, devices which are set forth in the American Waterworks
Association standard for backflow prevention devices - reduced pressure
principle and double check valve types AWWA C506-78 (R83) reaffirmed without
revision January 30, 1983.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams
per liter.
BACK SIPHONAGE: The flowing back of used contaminated or polluted water due to
a negative gauge or subatmospheric pressure in that pipe.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
(including the connection) or other place of disposal.
CCCDI (CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE INSPECTOR): A person who is a licensed
plumber in the state of Illinois and has successfully completed both written
and performance examinations administered by the IEPA, as described in IEPA
regulations, 35 Illinois administrative code 653.802, or an IEPA certified
public water supply operator who has successfully completed both written and
performance examinations administered by the IEPA as described in the IEPA
regulations, 35 Illinois administrative code 653.802.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
storm, surface and ground water drainage.
COMMERCIAL USER: Includes transit loading, retail and wholesale establishments
or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The person in whose name the water service is registered
with the village and shall include the occupant, owner of record, contract
purchaser, lessee or anyone else in control of the premises.
CONSUMER'S OR CUSTOMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system serving the premises,
commencing at the outlet side of the service pipe shutoff valve location and
shall include the fitting for such service pipe.
CONTAMINATION: The introduction into water of any substance to a degree which
could create a health hazard or make the water unfit for its intended use.
COUNTY DIRECTOR: The director of public works, DuPage County.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any actual or potential connection through which a supply of
potable water could be contaminated or polluted.
DEPARTMENT: The department of public works of the village.
DIRECTOR: The director of public works of the village of Woodridge.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE standard 1015, including shutoff valves
which inhibit all water flow located at each end of the assembly and suitable
connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
DRAIN: Any pipe that carries wastewater or waterborne wastes in a building
drainage system.
DUPAGE COUNTY AGREEMENT: That certain agreement entered into by and between the
village and the county of DuPage, Illinois, wherein said county has or will
acquire the sewage treatment facility known as the Woodridge plant.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
EFFLUENT CRITERIA: Defined in any applicable "NPDES permit".
EXTENSION: A sanitary sewer main or water main installed by a private person or
persons, firm, association, corporation or partnership for the purpose of
extending the original sanitary sewer mains or water mains of the village or
the sewer mains or water mains of the village which have been extended from
time to time.
FEDERAL ACT: The federal clean water act (33 USC 466 et seq.), as amended (Pub.
L. 95-217).
FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by title II - grants for the
construction of treatment works of the act and implementing regulations.
FIXED AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
FIXTURE, PLUMBING: Installed receptacles, devices or appliances supplied with
water or that receive or discharge liquids for liquidborne wastes.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
FLOOD LEVEL RIM: The edge of the receptacle from which water overflows.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
HAZARD, PLUMBING: Any arrangement of plumbing, including piping and fixtures,
whereby a cross connection is created.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of customers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
HOUSE CONNECTION: A sewer line or pipe extending from the public sewer located
in the right of way or easement to the house or building to be served.
HOUSE SERVICE: That part of the water service extending from the curb stop and
buffalo box to the house or building to be served.
HYDROPNEUMATIC TANK: A pressure vessel in which air pressure acts upon the
surface of the water contained within the vessel, pressurizing the water
distribution piping connected to the vessel.
INDUSTRIAL USERS: Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing activities
involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of substance
into products.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois plumbing code,
77 Illinois administrative code 890.
INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER: Includes schools, hospitals, churches, penal
institutions and users associated with federal, state and local governments.
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters
(1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per
million to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of
water and wastewater analysis.
MUNICIPALITY: The village of Woodridge, DuPage, Will and Cook Counties,
Illinois.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
administrator or, where appropriate by the director, after enactment of the
federal clean water act, to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the federal act.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative code 604.
NONRESIDENTIAL PREMISES: A customer's premises which are not intended as a
dwelling unit.
OUTLET: The open end of the water supply pipe through which the water is
discharged into the plumbing fixture.
PPM: Parts per million by weight.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA division of
laboratories manual of laboratory methods.
PLUMBER, LICENSED: A plumber licensed and certified by the state of Illinois to
do plumbing work.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including,
without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to,
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, from discharge of pumping units to
and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing includes all
piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building drain and a
sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or buildings
where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection
of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system
up to and including the connection to the main sewer line.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day containing two hundred twenty
milligrams per liter (220 mg/l) of BOD and two hundred forty milligrams per
liter (240 mg/l) of suspended solids.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative
code 604 for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A fixture or other connection which would extend
the customer's water systems supply line beyond its legal termination point
through which the supply of potable water could be contaminated or polluted.
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: Any arrangement of devices or structures used
for the treating of sewage on private property.
PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollution or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a customer's potable water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Polluted or contaminated water.
   B.   Process waters.
   C.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality.
   D.   Cooling waters.
   E.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams or irrigation systems.
   F.   Chemicals in solution or suspension.
   G.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sanitary sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed
with village funds.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM: All mains, pipes and structures owned and/or
maintained by the village through which water is obtained and distributed to
the public, including wells and well structures, intakes and cribs, pumping
stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage tanks and appurtenances,
collectively or separately, actually used or intended for use for the purpose
of furnishing potable water.
REASONABLE NOTICE: The time interval in which the director of public works, in
the exercise of standard engineering practice, finds it acceptable to order a
water customer to correct an unprotected cross connection with due
consideration for the potable water supply system as a whole and any oral
notice being followed by written notice.
REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE (RPZ): A device
containing a minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with
an automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between
the two (2) check valves. During normal flow and at the cessation of normal
flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks shall be less than the supply
pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential release
valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure
between the check valves at less than the supply pressure. The unit must
include shutoff valves which totally inhibit all water flow, located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
RESIDENTIAL DWELLING: A customer's premises which is intended for use as a
dwelling unit.
RESIDENTIAL USER: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes, apartments
and permanent multi-family dwellings.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both and into which storm, surface and ground waters or polluted
industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The physical connection to the water main including all
fittings and appurtenances, through which water is supplied to the customer.
SEWAGE: Used interchangeably with "wastewater".
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
SEWERAGE: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
STATE ACT: The Illinois antipollution bond act of 1970 1 .
STATE GRANT: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois antipollution
bond act 2  and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of state of
the state of Illinois.
STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
SURGE TANK: The receiving, nonpressure vessel forming part of the air gap
separation between a potable and an auxiliary supply.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply system and
must include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date of
all cross connection control devices and methods located within that customer's
piping system. The survey shall be completed on a form supplied by the village
and need not be a plumbing inspection.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA division of
laboratories' manual of laboratory methods.
SYSTEM: The combined waterworks and sewerage system servicing the village.
SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a customer's potable water system.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria
in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality
standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary sewers and
wastewater treatment facilities provided.
USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a consumer's
water system after it has passed through the service connection and is no
longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
USER: A facility or customer that receives or sends any flow from or through
the village's water or sewer system or private system to which the village owns
to capacity rights.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
USER CLASS: The type of user - "residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial" or "industrial" as defined herein.
VACUUM: Any pressure less than exerted by the atmosphere.
VILLAGE: That area within the corporate limits of the village of Woodridge,
DuPage and Will Counties, Illinois.
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR: The individual appointed by the mayor and board of
trustees to be the direct representative of the corporate authorities in the
transaction of all village business and in all matters concerning the citizens
of the village as provided by ordinance.
VILLAGE BOARD: The mayor and board of trustees of the village.
VILLAGE COLLECTOR: The finance director of the village.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER AND SEWERAGE FUND: The principal accounting designation for all
revenues received in the operation of the system.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes it is used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"pollution control plant".
WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
WATER QUALITY STANDARDS: Defined in the water pollution regulations of
Illinois.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously or
intermittently.
WATERWORKS SYSTEM: All physical assets used for the production, storage and
distribution of water, whether owned, operated, leased, purchased, possessed or
maintained by the village of Woodridge. (1976 Code §§9-51, 20-2; amd. Ord. 86-
60, §1; 1991 Code; Ord. 94-33, 5-12-1994; Ord. 2009-15, 4-2-2009; Ord. 2011-21,
5-12-2011; Ord. 2022-53, 9-1-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
2 2. 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
7-5A-2: COMBINED UTILITY:
The waterworks system and sanitary sewerage system of the village shall be
owned, maintained and operated as a combined utility. (Ord. 71-16, art. I, §2)
7-5A-3: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
Every user of the system shall use the same upon the conditions prescribed in
this chapter. (Ord. 71-16, art. I, §2)
7-5A-4: SUPERVISION OF SYSTEM:
The department of public works under the direction of the director of public
works and such other agents and employees designated by the village board shall
have the supervision, management and control of the maintenance, enlargement
and operation of the system owned and controlled by the village and all matters
and things connected with the operation, maintenance and extension of the
system and preserving the property belonging thereto. (Ord. 71-16, art. I, §2;
amd. Ord. 84-52, §14; Ord. 2011-21, 5-12-2011)
7-5A-5: TAPS:
Whenever any permit for a connection with the water or sewer mains of the
village is issued hereunder, only the employee of the village so designated for
the work or an approved contractor shall tap the main of the system where such
connection is to be made. (Ord. 71-16, art. I, §2; amd. Ord. 82-8, §5; Ord. 83-
53, §6)
7-5A-6: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permits Required:
      1.   Building Sewer Or Water Main: No person shall install or repair any
sanitary building sewer or water main without first obtaining a written permit
for such work from the director and/or the county director. (1976 Code §20-19)
      2.   Water Or Sewer Connections: No sewer connection, house connection,
house service, or any combination thereof may be connected to the waterworks or
sewerage system of the village unless a permit is obtained therefor as provided
herein. (1976 Code §9-52)
   B.   Bond And Insurance Requirements:
      1.   Bond: No permit for a sewer connection, a house connection, a water
service extension or a sewer extension shall be issued by the director unless
the person applying therefor or the contractor shall have filed in the office
of the director of finance a performance bond with corporate surety acceptable
to the village in a sum equal to one and one-half (11/2) times the estimated
cost of the work to be done. Such performance bond shall be approved by the
village attorney, conditioned upon the applicant indemnifying and saving
harmless the village for any and all damage to underground utilities or to the
water and sewer mains and laterals of the village and from any failure to
restore any road, ditch, pavement or portion thereof damaged during
construction to the condition existing at the commencement of construction.
(1976 Code §20-20)
      2.   Insurance: No permit for a sewer connection, a house connection, a
water service extension or a sewer extension shall be issued by the director
unless the person applying therefor or the contractor shall have first procured
public liability insurance in an amount of not less than one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) for injuries, including accidental death, to any one
person and in an amount not less than three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) on account of any one accident, and property damage insurance in
an amount not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) insuring the
village and the applicant as their respective interests may appear. A
certificate of said insurance shall be filed with the village collector. (1976
Code §20-21)
   C.   Excavations 1 :
      1.   Safety Devices: All openings made in rights of way shall be
protected at all times by sufficient barriers on which signal lights or flares
shall be placed and maintained after dark. The owner of the premises for which
the work is being done shall notify the director of public works when a street
is fully obstructed by such opening. (1976 Code §20-18; amd. Ord. 2011-21, 5-
12-2011)
      2.   Restoration Of Excavated Area: Streets, sidewalks, parkways and
other public property disturbed in the course of any such work shall be
restored in a manner satisfactory to the village engineer. (1976 Code §20-18)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsections
  7-1-3C of this title and 8-1A-7C of this code.
7-5A-7: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of water and wastes
to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in accordance
with the latest edition of IEPA division of laboratories' manual of laboratory
methods and shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole
has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer
is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour composite of all
samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples. (1976 Code §20-28)
7-5A-8: FEES AND CHARGES 1 :
   A.   Fees And Charges Established:
      1.   User Charges: All users of the system shall pay such rates for the
use and service of the system as shall be prescribed from time to time by the
village board 2  and, when applicable, by the DuPage County board as set forth
in the county sewer use ordinance. (1976 Code §20-8)
      2.   Wastewater Maintenance Charge: All users of the sewerage system
shall pay a wastewater maintenance charge as set forth in section
7-5D-3 of this chapter. (1976 Code §20-9)
      3.   Connection Permit Fees: The fees to be charged for a permit to tap
or otherwise make a connection with any water or sewer main shall be determined
in such manner and shall be an amount as shall be prescribed by ordinance, from
time to time, adopted by the village board 3  and, where applicable, the county
board as set forth in the DuPage County sewer use ordinance. (1976 Code §20-14)
   B.   Criteria For Charges: A charge shall be made to the users of said
system which shall be reasonable for the use and service of such system, and
such charges or rates for that purpose shall be established and such rates
shall be sufficient to pay the cost of the operation and maintenance of the
entire system of the village including an adequate depreciation fund therefor,
and to pay the interest on and principal of all bonds which by their terms are
payable from the revenues of the system and to maintain the additional accounts
established in the ordinance authorizing the issue of bonds. Notwithstanding
any provision contained in this subsection and subsections C, D1 and D2 of this
section to the contrary, the establishment of, liability for and billing and
collection of user charges for the sewerage system shall be in accordance with
the DuPage County sewer use ordinance. (1976 Code §20-22)
   C.   Liability For Charges: The services of the system are furnished to the
respective premises by the Village only upon the condition that the owner of
the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service are jointly and
severally liable therefor to the Village. (1976 Code §20-23)
   D.   Bills For Service; Delinquencies:
      1.   Rendition Of Bills: It shall be the duty of the Director of Finance
to cause statements for charges to be delivered to each customer of the system
at such intervals as will be determined by the Mayor and Board of Trustees but
in no event at any greater interval than two (2) months. (1976 Code §20-24)
Where both water and sewer service are provided, the bill shall be rendered as
single water and sewer charge. (1976 Code §20-25)
      2.   Payment Of Bills; Delinquencies:
         a.   All charges shall be due and payable on or before the twenty
first day after the date when the statements of such charges are rendered. All
bills not paid within twenty one (21) days of the date of billing shall have a
penalty charge of ten percent (10%) added thereto.
         b.   In the event such charges for service are not paid within thirty
(30) days after the rendition of the bill for such services, such charges shall
be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent and thereafter such
delinquent charges shall constitute liens upon the real estate upon or for
which the services have been supplied. The Village may file a lien with the
Office of the Recorder of Deeds of the County in which the property resides,
which shall be deemed notice of the lien for payment of such service.
         c.   No person owing waterworks and sewerage charges and moving to
other premises where there are such connections or where connections shall
afterwards be made shall be served until all charges in arrears are paid in
full.
         d.   In the event charges for water service are not paid within thirty
(30) days after the rendition of the bill for such services, the Village shall
provide notice informing the customer of the required payment or other action
required to prevent discontinuation of service, the date by which such payment
or other action must be made, the charges for disconnection and reconnection of
service, that the Finance Department has authority to resolve disputes, and the
procedure for making a written request for review of disputed charges. If no
written request for review is made prior to the date on which service was to be
discontinued and payment of the unpaid charges is not made, or other required
action is not done, water service may be discontinued without further notice.
If a written request for review is made, the request will be reviewed by the
Finance Department and a decision rendered within five business days from date
of receipt of written request. Any amounts due or actions required after the
decision has been given shall be made within five business days or the service
shall be discontinued immediately. A fee shall be added to the account once it
has been placed on the shut off list for termination. Water service shall only
be restored (turned back on) during normal Village working hours. The
termination fee shall be as follows: seventy dollars ($70.00) which is intended
to cover administrative time as well as operations time and equipment. Anytime
any services are provided after normal Village working hours, a charge of one
hundred forty dollars ($140.00) shall be assessed.
         e.   If payment received by the Village on a delinquent account is
returned for any reason including, but not limited to, insufficient funds, or
account closed, the Village may disconnect water services immediately without
further notice. In such event, another termination fee would apply along with
the customary returned check fee stated in this Code.
      3.   Payment Plan: If a customer is unable to pay a bill rendered by the
Village for services of the system, the Director of Finance may, in their
discretion, enter into a payment plan agreement with said customer. Customers
who have entered into an agreed upon payment plan at any time during the
previous twelve (12) months shall not be afforded such opportunity.
   E.   Notice When Vacating Or Occupying Premises: Any person who shall vacate
any premises or any person who shall enter upon and occupy any premises shall
immediately, before vacating said premises or occupying said premises, notify
the department and secure a reading of the meter.
   F.   Denial Of Service:
      1.   If after a review of its records, the village finds that an
applicant for water service has failed to pay past due charges for water
service at the same or another address, the village may refuse to provide
service unless the applicant pays any past due bill. Service shall not be
denied for nonpayment of bills other than those for water service.
      2.   The village may refuse to provide water service to any premise for
which a claim of lien for unpaid charges for water service has been filed with
the county recorder on or before the date of application for service, unless
the applicant tenders to the village the amount of the charges due. (1976 Code
§20-27; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 2000-02, 1-13-2000; Ord. 2009-02, 2-5-2009; Ord.
2011-29, 6-9-2011; Ord. 2018-27, 8-16-2018; Ord. 2018-28, 8-16-2018; Ord. 2022-
53, 9-1-2022; Ord. 2024-46, 9-5-2024)
 
Notes
1 2. See article D of this chapter.
  1. See sections
2 7-5D-2,
  7-5D-3, and
  7-5D-4 of this chapter.
3 2. See section
  7-5D-1 of this chapter.
7-5A-9: LAND DEVELOPMENTS:
Any land developer, subdivider or construction contractor of land within the
Village, or party or owner or owners of land desiring annexation to the Village
shall provide without expense to the Village a sewage collection system and a
water distribution system for the area within the village for which building
permits are desired or for the area desired to be annexed to the Village, and
all such sewage and water systems shall be deeded over or otherwise legally
transferred to the Village without cost to the Village. (1976 Code §20-29)
7-5A-10: DAMAGING, TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM 1 :
No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any of the sewers, appurtenances, equipment,
machinery, lift stations or structures of the system installed, owned and/or
operated by the Village. Any violation hereof may be punishable as hereinafter
provided. (1976 Code §20-15; amd. Ord. 2022-53, 9-1-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  5-7-3-2B9 of this Code.
7-5A-11: REPORTS AND RECORDS:
   A.   Books, Records And Accounts: The director of finance shall keep or
cause to be kept full and complete books of accounts and records, separate and
apart from any other records of the village, showing in detail all monies
received by them with dates and sources and all matters pertaining to the
financial operation of the system in a clear and methodical manner. They shall
also keep such other books as the village administrator and the village board
may from time to time direct. All such books and records shall at all
reasonable times be open to the inspection of the village administrator and
village board, any member thereof, the holder of any outstanding waterworks and
sewerage revenue bonds or any duly authorized agent or agents of such holder.
(1976 Code §20-6)
   B.   Access To Records: The Illinois environmental protection agency and/or
the United States environmental protection agency or its authorized
representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of
the village which are applicable to the village's system of user charges or
industrial cost recovery for the purpose of making audit, examinations,
excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the
special and general conditions to any federal grant. (1976 Code §20-30; amd.
Ord. 2022-53, 9-1-2022)
7-5A-12: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Powers And Authority Of Inspectors:
      1.   The village engineer, director, county director and other duly
authorized employees of the village of Woodridge or the counties of DuPage,
Will and Cook, the Illinois environmental protection agency and the United
States environmental protection agency bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, testing, improvement,
maintenance and/or repair of the system in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Such persons shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or
other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the use of the
system.
      2.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in subsection A1 of this section, the village engineer, director, county
director or duly authorized employees of the village of Woodridge, counties of
DuPage, Will and Cook, the Illinois environmental protection agency and the
United States environmental protection agency shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises.
      3.   The village engineer, director, county director and other duly
authorized employees of the village of Woodridge and the counties of DuPage,
Will and Cook, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the village holds a
duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the water or sewer system lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any, on said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property. (1976 Code
§20-7)
   B.   Notice Of Violation; Failure To Comply: Whenever and wherever within
the boundaries of the municipality or other area served by the municipality it
shall be made to appear that any person is violating any of the provisions of
this chapter, the director, village engineer, or the county director (with
respect to the sewerage system) may, but is not required as a condition
precedent to prosecution for violation, cause to be served personally or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, upon the alleged offender a notice in
writing stating the date, nature of the alleged offense and directing that the
same cease and desist immediately upon service of the notice and that the act
or omission causing such violation be corrected within thirty (30) days or
within such reasonable time as the circumstances may require. (1976 Code §20-
10)
The failure, neglect and refusal of the person alleged to be in such violation
to cease and desist therefrom within the time stated in such notice shall be
deemed a violation of the provisions of this chapter and punishable as provided
in this chapter. (1976 Code §20-11)
   C.   Authority To Stop Certain Discharges:
      1.   The director and village engineer shall have the power to stop and
prevent free discharge into the public sewers from any private building drain
through which substances are discharged and which are liable to injure or
seriously obstruct the flow of the public sewers.
      2.   The county director shall have such powers as are set forth in the
DuPage County sewer use ordinance. (1976 Code §20-13)
   D.   Discontinuance Of Service:
      1.   The municipality shall have the right with respect to any violation
of this chapter, except as otherwise herein provided, to:
         a.   Discontinue service to any person; and/or
         b.   Plug or disconnect the sewer at any point in the building drain.
      2.   The county director, with respect to the sewerage system, shall have
the right to take such action as is set forth in the DuPage County sewer use
ordinance. (1976 Code §20-12)
      3.   If, after the water or sewer supply shall have been turned on to any
building, structure or premises, it shall be found by any employee or agent of
the village that fraudulent representations have been made by the applicant for
such water or sewer supply and that water is being used in or upon such
building, structure or premises for purposes not set forth in the application
made for such water or sewer supply, or that there is willful or unreasonable
use or waste of water, the director shall have the authority and it shall be
their duty to turn off and stop the supply of water or sewer to such building,
structure or premises forthwith and the supply shall not be turned on to such
building, structure or premises until the person or persons responsible for
such fraudulent representations or for such use of water shall pay the village
such sums of money for such water and sewer supply or on account of such
unreasonable waste of such water or sewer supply as the village board shall
find properly to be due the village.
   E.   Penalty: Any person found to have violated any provision of this
chapter shall be fined in accordance with provisions contained in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code §20-16; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 97-29, 6-26-1997;
Ord. 2009-15, 4-2-2009; Ord. 2022-53, 9-1-2022)
7-5A-13: CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE VILLAGE:
   A.   Connecting To The Village System/Capacity:
      1.   The village will consider serving new users that are located outside
of the corporate limits of the village with water and/or sewer service. The
village will also consider serving new users that are located outside of the
corporate limits of the village with water and/or sewer capacity owned and/or
controlled by the village, which is delivered through lines of a regulated
utility (all such potential new users described above, for purposes of this
subsection A, shall be referred to as "extraterritorial user applicants").
In accordance with the procedures set forth in subsection A2 of this section,
the village will consider applications submitted by extraterritorial user
applicants for water and/or sewer service or use of water and/or sewer capacity
provided that it is determined that the requested water and/or sewer services,
or use of water and/or sewer capacity, will not unreasonably impair the ability
to continue to adequately and safely meet the then current and anticipated
water and/or sewer service demands, or water and/or sewer capacity demands, of
its residents, the owners of vacant lands located within its corporate limits,
and its existing customers or owners of property located outside the village's
corporate limits presently served by the system or with capacity or with whom
the village presently has a contract providing for the provision of water and/
or sewer service, or water and/or sewer capacity, in the future.
All extraterritorial user applicants shall comply with all conditions imposed
by the village. Said conditions shall be set forth in a utility and annexation
agreement which may, in addition to any other conditions required by the
village, provide that the party applying for water and/or sewer service, or
water and/or sewer capacity will:
         a.   Construct any necessary extension and distribution system in
conformance with plans and specifications approved by the village engineer.
         b.   Upon inspection and acceptance by the village engineer and the
submission of proof satisfactory to the village that any such extensions and
distribution systems have been fully paid for, convey to the village such
extensions and distribution systems together with such easements as may be
necessary to permit the village to have adequate access thereto. Such
conveyances shall be by bills of sale, easements or other appropriate
documents, the form and substance of which shall be subject to the approval of
the village's legal counsel.
         c.   To the extent to which the property being or to be served is
located within the village's planning jurisdiction, agree to develop and
utilize the property in a manner consistent with the village's comprehensive
plan and agree to comply with the provisions of the village's codes,
ordinances, rules and regulations.
         d.   Agree to pay to the village all engineering and legal expenses
incurred by the village in reviewing the extraterritorial user applicant's
application, reviewing and approving the plans and specifications for the
construction of any extension or distribution system, inspecting and approving
the construction of the improvements and the negotiation, drafting, review and
execution of any utility and annexation agreement or other document
implementing such agreement.
All utility and annexation agreements shall, in addition to any and all other
terms, require that the property on which the user is located shall be annexed
to the village at such time as it becomes contiguous to the village or is
otherwise subject to annexation as part of a larger territory as permitted by
the Illinois municipal code. All utility and annexation agreements shall be
executed by the extraterritorial user applicant (as well as the record owner[s]
of the property on which the extraterritorial user applicant is located, if
different).
      2.   Extraterritorial user applicants shall make applications upon such
forms as the director may from time to time prescribe. Extraterritorial user
applicants shall provide the director with such information as the director may
deem necessary or appropriate to their review of any such application. If the
director preliminarily determines that the extraterritorial user applicant's
request may be permitted without adversely affecting the village's ability to
adequately and safely meet its other obligations, he shall cause to be prepared
a utility and annexation agreement incorporating the terms and provisions
provided under subsection A1 of this section together with such other terms as
he may determine. The utility and annexation agreement shall be executed by the
extraterritorial user applicant (as well as the record owner[s] of the property
on which the extraterritorial user applicant is located, if different) prior to
submittal of the director's findings and recommendations to the corporate
authorities.
      3.   The director shall submit their findings and recommendations to the
corporate authorities together with a copy of the executed utility and
annexation agreement. Should the corporate authorities concur in the director's
findings and recommendations, they may, by resolution, authorize the mayor and
village clerk to enter into the utility and annexation agreement.
      4.   Should the director find that any request would adversely affect the
village's ability to adequately and safely meet existing water or sewer
service/capacity demands, they shall deny such application. The
extraterritorial user applicant may thereafter appeal the director's denial to
the corporate authorities, whose decision with respect to the application
denial and appeal shall be final.
      5.   In the event the corporate authorities determine that an application
shall be granted, they shall authorize the director to issue necessary permits
for all work to be performed by the extraterritorial user applicant. All work
shall be in conformance with the permit(s), the utility and annexation
agreement, any incorporated engineering plans and specifications approved by
the village engineer and any other applicable provisions of this chapter.
      6.   The corporate authorities shall from time to time establish by
ordinance, rates and charges applicable to the service/capacity being provided,
which shall be incorporated by reference into all utility and annexation
agreements.
   B.   Existing Users Outside Village; Agreement Required; Termination Of
Service:
      1.   The village currently serves commercial, industrial and residential
users that are located outside of the corporate limits of the village with
water and/or sewer service. The village also currently serves commercial,
industrial and residential users that are located outside of the corporate
limits of the village with water and/or sewer capacity owned and/or controlled
by the village, which is delivered through lines of a regulated utility (all
such users described above, for purposes of this subsection B, shall be
referred to as "extraterritorial users").
The corporate authorities of the village have determined that it shall no
longer serve such extraterritorial users unless such extraterritorial users
(including the record owner[s] of the property on which the extraterritorial
user is located, if different) shall enter into a utility and annexation
agreement with the village. The terms of any such agreement shall be in
accordance with the terms set forth in subsection A of this section, to the
extent applicable, and otherwise in a form acceptable to the village attorney.
Extraterritorial users are hereby required to enter into a utility and
annexation agreement with the village on or before the following deadlines:
Commercial and industrial users must enter into a utility and annexation
agreement with the village by December 31, 2009.
Residential users must enter into a utility and annexation agreement prior to
submission of applications to DuPage County for any of the following building
permits: a) principal building addition; b) swimming pool; c) lawn sprinkler or
irrigation systems; d) water features; and e) accessory structures with water
or sewer service. An expansion shall mean an addition to the home, addition of
an accessory structure on the property, or any other expansion of the structure
or use that the village believes may impact the water and sewer system of the
village.
      2.   In the event any extraterritorial user fails to enter into the
required utility and annexation agreement as required in this section, the
water and/or sewer services or water and/or sewer capacity shall be terminated
upon sixty (60) days' prior written notice.
      3.   All extraterritorial users shall pay to the village all engineering
and legal expenses incurred by the village in the negotiation drafting, review
and execution of any utility and annexation agreement or other document
implementing such agreement. (Ord. 2009-15, 4-2-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-53, 9-1-
2022)
7-5A-14: UTILITY SERVICE EXTENSION:
In all situations where the potable water, sanitary sewer, and/or storm sewer
systems are being extended to provide service to a new property, such utility
system shall be extended to the far side of the property in order to be
available for future extensions by adjacent property owners. (Ord. 2013-53, 10-
24-2013)
ARTICLE B. WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-5B-1: Use Of Public Water System Required
7-5B-2: Water Service And Connections
7-5B-3: Construction Regulations
7-5B-4: Compliance With Plumbing Regulations
7-5B-5: Maintenance And Repair
7-5B-6: Water Meters
7-5B-6-1: Property Of Village
7-5B-6-2: Meter Location
7-5B-6-3: Meter Specifications
7-5B-6-4: Reading, Testing And Repairing Meters
7-5B-6-5: Multiple Meters
7-5B-6-6: Tampering, Interfering With Meters
7-5B-6-7: Nonconforming Water Meter Replacement Program
7-5B-7: Hydrants
7-5B-8: Prohibitions Regarding Water Supply
7-5B-9: Reserved
7-5B-10: Water Conservation Measures
7-5B-11: Reserved
7-5B-12: Nonliability Of Village
7-5B-13: Cross Connection Control
7-5B-1: USE OF PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM REQUIRED:
   A.   Use Of Public Water System Required: When feasible and where a public
water system main is now installed or hereafter may be installed in any street,
alley, public way or easement, all water users located on any such street,
alley, public way or easement shall make or cause to be made connection to such
public water system main and pay the connection charges therefor within ninety
(90) days hereafter or within ninety (90) days after the installation of such
water main if the same is not now installed, and all users shall discontinue
within the same period of time any connection which they theretofore may have
had with any other water service.
Connection with the public water system main is hereby declared to be feasible
as to any premises where any property line of such premises is within four
hundred feet (400') of any public water system main or the per structure cost
of establishing a connection to the public water system main is less than two
hundred percent (200%) of the cost of constructing a private well for each
structure on the premises.
For the purposes of this section, a "public water system" shall be defined as
any system owned and operated by a municipality, a county or by a utility
company regulated by the Illinois commerce commission. (Ord. 98-40, 7-9-1998)
   B.   Private Wells Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to drill or install any well for the purpose of
securing water for use in any premises within the village other than a well or
wells connected with and made a part of the municipal water supply and
distribution system installed and/or operated by the village.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to use water from any well drilled, dug or
installed in violation of the provisions of this chapter. (1976 Code §20-103)
   C.   Tax Supported Governmental Users; Variations From This Section: The
board of trustees may, by ordinance, grant variations from the regulations
imposed under this section for tax supported governmental users. An application
for a variation shall be filed with the director of public works, and shall
identify the specific unique circumstances affecting the subject property and
the specific detriment which would result in the absence of the requested
variation. The director of public works shall promptly review each application
and forward the same, along with recommendations thereon, to the board of
trustees. No variation shall be granted unless unique circumstances affecting
the subject property would result in some substantial detriment in the absence
of the requested variation, nor shall a variation be granted if any material
detriment to the public health, safety or welfare would result therefrom. The
board of trustees may impose such conditions or restrictions upon the grant of
any variation as may be necessary or appropriate to further the purpose and
intent of the connection requirements of this section. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the granting of a variation pursuant to this subsection is entirely
at the discretion of the board of trustees. No tax supported governmental user
shall be entitled to a variation as a matter of right. (Ord. 96-44, 9-12-1996;
amd. Ord. 2011-21, 5-12-2011)
7-5B-2: WATER SERVICE AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Application For Water Service And Connections: Any person desiring to
make any connection with the combined system or use water therefrom shall first
make application to the director upon a blank form or forms furnished by the
department. Said application shall contain an agreement on the part of the
applicant that all the rules, regulations, conditions and provisions of any
ordinance relating to the system will be complied with and that all water and
sewer rates, assessments and rents and all fines and penalties assessed,
charged or imposed against said applicant upon the property described in said
application will be paid. (1976 Code §20-107)
   B.   Water Connection Permit: When the applicant herein has complied with
all of the provisions of the ordinances of the village, a permit shall then be
issued by the director authorizing the connection to be made and specifying the
size thereof. (1976 Code §20-108)
   C.   Multiple Water Connections: No service pipe shall be laid or used to
supply water to more than one premises or building unless a separate curb stop
for each of the premises or buildings shall be placed outside of such premises
in the parkway as hereinafter provided and a permit fee shall be obtained for
each service connection. (1976 Code §20-109)
7-5B-3: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   State Specifications Adopted: Construction of water improvements shall
be in accordance with the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main
Construction In Illinois", first edition, August 1, 1967, as may be amended by
the village. (1976 Code §20-121)
   B.   Water Mains:
      1.   Installation Of Water Mains: Water mains shall be installed to
conform with the comprehensive water plan of the village as the same may be
adopted by the village board and as may be amended from time to time. All mains
shall be a minimum of six inches (6") in diameter. Water mains of eight inches
(8") in diameter or greater are to be ductile iron pipe, cement lined or of
equal material, all as approved by the village. (1976 Code §20-116)
      2.   Valves On Mains: Valves shall be installed on mains at locations to
minimize inconvenience to customers served thereby, but in no case shall be
spaced greater than eight hundred feet (800') apart. All valves must be placed
in valve vaults. Valves of six inches (6") to ten inches (10") in diameter,
inclusive, shall be installed in a four foot (4') diameter vault and those
twelve inches (12") in diameter and above shall be installed in a five foot
(5') vault. Valves shall be located at the extension of the right of way at its
intersection with the water main, wherever possible. (1976 Code §20-118)
   C.   Water Taps: The water main shall be tapped on an angle of forty five
degrees (45°) with the vertical and the corporation stop shall be turned so
that the T handle will be on top. (1976 Code §20-122)
   D.   Service Pipes And Connections:
      1.   Installation And Maintenance Of Service Pipes; Cost: Every person
supplied with water from the village waterworks system shall, at their cost and
expense, have installed and kept in repair all pipes leading from the curb stop
or valve, including the concrete pit or other protected means for the meter if
applicable, to their building, structure or premises supplied with water
through such service pipes.
      2.   Pipe Specifications: All copper service pipes shall be type K, soft
tubing and all joints shall be flared and swaged. The diameter of the service
pipe shall be three-fourths inch (3/4") minimum. (1976 Code §20-120)
      3.   Inspection And Approval Of Pipes And Connections 1 : All service
pipes and connections shall be inspected and approved by the director and no
such service pipes shall be covered until they have been so inspected. (1976
Code §20-123)
   E.   Curb Stops, Cocks, Boxes: Curb stops, cocks and boxes shall be in the
Mueller Minneapolis pattern of the inverted key and extension types. (1976 Code
§20-119)
   F.   Multiple Supply From Single Tap: Whenever two (2) or more distinct
buildings or premises are to be supplied by means of branch or surface pipes
supplied by a single tap in the street main, each branch must be independently
arranged with a stopcock and box in the manner prescribed by this article and
separate meters must be installed for each individual building. (1976 Code §20-
113; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 2013-11, 3-14-2013; Ord. 2022-53, 9-1-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 3-1A-3B5 of this code for plumbing inspection fees.
7-5B-4: COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING REGULATIONS:
Water shall not be turned on into the supply pipe of any new building in which
the plumbing and drainage systems have been altered until such plumbing and
drainage systems shall conform in all respects to the ordinances of the
village, as evidenced by the report of the director, and until the applicant
shall have paid the water charges due. However, a plumber will be allowed
twenty four (24) hours to test all work. (1976 Code §20-110)
7-5B-5: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
All persons taking water shall keep the service pipes and all fixtures
connected therewith in good repair and protected from frost at their own
expense and shall prevent all unnecessary waste of water; provided, however,
that a reasonable time, not to exceed forty eight (48) hours, shall be allowed
to any person having defective pipes to repair or cause the same to be
repaired. (1976 Code §20-124)
7-5B-6: WATER METERS:
All water supplied by the village system shall be measured by outside remote
reading water meters only; except, that in those cases where it is temporarily
impractical to set a meter, the use and consumption of water shall be governed
by other applicable provisions of this chapter. A conduit shall be provided
that runs from the inside meter to a location outside the structure to where
the outside meter is being installed on all new construction installations and
remodeling work where the existing wire run has been exposed. Said conduit
shall be labeled "For Water Meter Remote". (Ord. 97-29, 6-26-1997; amd. Ord.
2012-34, 6-14-2012)
7-5B-6-1: PROPERTY OF VILLAGE:
All meters used in connection with the system shall be furnished by the village
only and shall be and remain for all time the property of the village.
There shall be charges established for water meters and the payment thereof
shall be made upon application for a building permit to the department of
community development of the village. Such charges will be established by the
village board from time to  time 1 . (1976 Code § 20-137 and 20-138; amd. Ord.
2011-21, 5-12-2011; Ord. 2023-63, 12-21-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-5D-4 of this chapter.
7-5B-6-2: METER LOCATION:
Water meters shall be located at such places within the premises to be served
in the manner and in accord with such specifications as the director shall
direct. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the director shall retain the ability to
require the installation of the meter in a concrete pit or with other protected
means approved by the director to prevent damage, at the connection point with
the water main, whether on or off the premises. All meter locations shall be so
situated as to prevent freezing of water flowing through such meters. (Ord.
2013-11, 3-14-2013)
7-5B-6-3: METER SPECIFICATIONS:
The director, with the approval of the village board, shall in all cases
determine the kind and pattern of water meters to be installed and no other
kind shall be installed at any time. The size of the meter required for any
metered supply shall be governed by the size and character of the premises
served. The size of the meter for large buildings shall be approved by the
director at the time of application for the water supply. The size of meters so
approved may be changed from time to time if conditions require. (1976 Code
§20-139)
7-5B-6-4: READING, TESTING AND REPAIRING METERS:
   A.   Access To Premises: The Director shall have ready access to the
premises, places or buildings where meters are located for the purpose of
installing, replacing, and reading same, testing and repairing the same and
examining and testing the consumption, use and flow of water, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to interfere with, prevent or obstruct the Director in
this undertaking. Where inspections are not of an immediate or urgent nature,
employees of the waterworks system will use best efforts to arrange for
appointments that are mutually convenient to the owners or occupants of the
premises served and such employees. The property owner and/or occupant shall be
responsible for providing unobstructed access to all of the components related
to the water service, including, but not limited to, the inside meter, outside
meter, remote, and buffalo box. In the event there is an obstruction, the
property owner and/or occupant shall be responsible for removing or otherwise
providing unobstructed access within ten (10) working days of notice to
complete the same. In the event the owner does not provide unobstructed access
within ten (10) working days the village shall have the right to disconnect and
refuse further service to the premises until unobstructed access is available.
   B.   Permission Required For Meter Work: It shall be unlawful to tamper at
any time with the installed water meter or have the same removed or repaired or
cause the same to be removed or repaired without obtaining permission from the
director.
   C.   Notice Of Defective Meter: It shall be the duty of the owner or
occupant of any premises to promptly notify the department of any defects in
any meter or of its failure to properly register the quantity of water passing
through the same.
   D.   Inaccurate Meters: Water meters are determined as inaccurate or in need
of repair when the variation of or departure from one hundred percent (100%)
accuracy shall be in excess of two percent (2%). Whenever any meter shall prove
to be inaccurate or in need of repair, the director will cause the meter to be
removed, tested, recalibrated and/or replaced. The charges for these services
as indicated will be the responsibility of the village. If, however, the
customer requests that the meter be checked or replaced and if it is proven
that the meter is accurate and/or not in need of repairs, the customer will be
responsible for the cost of the replacement meter plus village expenses
incurred.
   E.   Repair Or Replacement; Costs: All repair or replacement costs, other
than normal maintenance of the water meter, remote and resetter, including,
without limitation, freezing, hot water damage or damages caused by known or
unknown persons (including theft), shall be the joint and several
responsibility of the property owner and occupant. Such costs for any work
other than the aforementioned normal maintenance shall be paid by the owner/
occupant as soon as a bill from the village for the same is presented, and the
amount therefor shall be a lien against the premises for which the meter was
installed or repaired to the extent and with the same effect as that for water
charges.
In the event the wire between the outside and inside meter needs to be replaced
and is reasonably accessible, or there is functional conduit in place, the
village will complete the work to install the wire. In the event the location
for the wire is not reasonably accessible, or there is not functional conduit,
the village shall supply the wire, at no charge, but the property owner and/or
occupant shall be responsible for completing the work to install the wire
within thirty (30) calendar days of notice to complete the same. In the event
the work in question is not completed by the deadline, water service shall be
temporarily suspended until the required work is completed to the satisfaction
of the village. If water service is suspended reinstatement of the same shall
be subject to the standard village fee. (1976 Code §§ 20-143, 20-144, 20-147
and 20-148; amd. Ord. 2012-34, 6-14-2012; Ord. 2022-53, 9-1-2022; Ord. 2023-63,
12-21-2023)
7-5B-6-5: MULTIPLE METERS:
Where water is supplied through two (2) or more meters to one customer or to
two (2) or more premises owned by any one person, in no instance will readings
of such meters be combined. All readings shall be on a per meter basis. The
village will not recognize a secondary or subtraction meter, nor will it render
any bill or bills on same. Water will always be charged against the property as
registered by the primary meter. (1976 Code §20-149)
7-5B-6-6: TAMPERING, INTERFERING WITH METERS:
   A.   After the meter is placed, only employees or agents of the department
shall be allowed to repair, remove or in any manner interfere with the same. A
meter stop or valve shall be placed on each side of the meter. (1976 Code §20-
145)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface, mar, destroy or
in any manner to interfere with any meter 1 . (1976 Code §20-140)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-5A-10 of this chapter.
7-5B-6-7: NONCONFORMING WATER METER REPLACEMENT PROGRAM:
The village has determined that all water meters in the system shall be of the
outside remote reading type which are integrated with the Village's advanced
metering infrastructure (AMI) only. All water meters in the system which are
not of the AMI type are deemed to be nonconforming and shall be replaced as a
part of the replacement program by the village at the expense of the village.
The director shall implement a program for the replacement of all nonconforming
water meters. The program shall provide for three (3) notices to be given to
any user having a nonconforming water meter. The notices shall direct the user
to schedule an appointment with the village for the replacement of the
nonconforming water meter by the village. Any user whose nonconforming water
meter is not replaced within thirty (30) days after giving of the third notice
shall be subject to immediate discontinuance of service as provided in
subsection
7-5A-12D of this chapter.
In the event a customer does not wish to have the AMI infrastructure installed
with the meter due to medical reasons, that request must be supported by a
licensed medical professional. In that specific situation the customer may
elect to keep a manual meter without the remote AMI data transmission
capabilities. As a consequence of this option, the customer will not have
access to usage data, which may have assisted in leak detection for the
property. Prior to the transfer of the account for any reason the installation
of the AMI infrastructure shall be required at the property. The customer may
elect at any time to rescind the medical exemption and to have the AMI
infrastructure installed. In the event the property owner refuses or is
otherwise unwilling to provide access to complete the meter reading, the AMI
infrastructure shall be installed and/or water service shall be discontinued
until the AMI infrastructure is installed. Under all of these circumstances,
the cost for the AMI infrastructure and its installation shall be completed at
the Village's expense.
Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter to the contrary, during the time
period in which the nonconforming meter is not replaced the Village shall
assess an additional fee to the customer of thirty-five dollars ($35.00) to the
account for the additional staff and equipment time associated with obtaining
and entering the data collected each time a manual visit to the water meter
needs to occur which would have otherwise not been needed had the AMI system
been in place. In the event of medical exemption documentation having been
submitted to the Village this fee shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00). Said
charge(s) shall be shown on the user's bimonthly statement of charges. Failure
to pay said charge when due shall subject the user to discontinuance of service
as provided in subsection
7-5A-8D of this chapter. (Ord. 97-29, 6-26-1997; amd. Ord. 2023-63, 12-21-2023;
Ord. 2024-46, 9-5-2024)
7-5B-7: HYDRANTS:
   A.   Installation Of Hydrants: Water hydrants with auxiliary valves shall be
installed at intervals not to exceed four hundred feet (400') and shall be of a
type approved by the Director. Hydrants shall be located within the right-of-
way. Valve boxes shall be placed on all auxiliary valves. (1976 Code §20-117)
   B.   Use Of Fire Hydrants: All hydrants erected and connected with the water
system belonging to the Village for the purpose of extinguishing fires in the
Village are hereby declared to be public hydrants and no person or persons
other than members of a legally constituted fire district or department shall
open any of said hydrants or attempt to draw water from the same, except for
extinguishing fires, and shall not in any manner interfere with or injure any
of said hydrants. If special conditions arise which require utilization of
hydrants for any purposes other than extinguishing fires, upon written
application, the Director may grant temporary use of such facilities. (1976
Code §20-150)
   C.   Violation: In addition to any of the activities described hereinabove,
no person shall attach anything to, alter, or otherwise tamper with a hydrant
in any fashion, except by the express consent and direction of a duly
authorized Village official.
   D.   Payment: Any person charged with a violation of this section may, in
lieu of prosecution for a violation hereof, make payment in accordance with
section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 2006-43, 8-3-2006)
7-5B-8: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Purchasing Water From Other Than Village: No person having their
residence or place of business within the territorial limits of the Village
shall be permitted to buy water from any other municipal corporation or other
public utility for such residence or place of business located in the Village
whenever the waterworks system of the Village is adjacent to their property
under the provisions of this chapter. (1976 Code §20-105)
   B.   Supplying Water To Others: No person or persons, whether owners or
occupants, in possession or control of any building, structure or premises into
which water is supplied through the system shall be allowed, without written
permission from the Director, to supply other persons or families, or to supply
water from such building or premises to another building, structure or
premises. The supply of water to a building, structure or premises of any
person who violates any of the foregoing provisions of this subsection shall be
shut off and stopped forthwith and the water shall not again be turned on to
such building, structure or premises from which it was cut off until there
shall have been paid to the Village the sum of money as prescribed by the
Director and deemed properly due the Village. (1976 Code §20-125; amd. Ord.
2022-53, 9-1-2022)
7-5B-9: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2009-15, 4-2-2009)
7-5B-10: WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES:
   A.   Restricted Hours For Nonessential Outside Water Uses To Prevent
Excessive, Wasteful Use: Commencing on May 15 of each year and extending
through the following September 15 of each year, lawn sprinkling shall not
occur on consecutive days, nor shall water from the Village water distribution
system be used on any day between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and
five o'clock (5:00) P.M. (local time) when evaporation is at its highest for
the purpose of watering or sprinkling of gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs and
other outdoor plants; except, that such restrictions shall not prohibit the
watering of newly planted gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs and plants by means of
handheld watering devices designed and intended for such purpose and only when
such device is actually being operated by hand. New lawns (less than 3 months
old) may be exempted from this provision. In addition, new/replacement
sprinkler systems shall be equipped with a WaterSense labeled irrigation
controller and shall be in compliance with section 2.5(g) of the Illinois
Plumbing License Law.
   B.   Emergency Water Conservation:
      1.   Authority To Proclaim Emergency: Whenever the water supply of the
Village is diminished from any cause whatever to an amount which in the opinion
of the Village Administrator or their designee is or is likely to become
dangerous to the health and safety of the public, the Village Administrator or
their designee is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a proclamation in
the form of a public notice containing regulations on the use of water from the
Village water distribution system. Such regulations may provide for the limited
usage of water, limitations on days and hours of use for some or all purposes
and the prohibition of specified uses. Upon issuing said proclamation, the
Village Administrator or their designee shall make the contents thereof known
to the public by news release to the local newspapers and radio media and may
also notify the citizens in any other practical manner that he shall devise.
Further, the Village Administrator or their designee shall immediately notify
all members of the Village Board of the nature of the emergency and the
regulations that have been imposed.
      2.   Effect Of Proclamation: The emergency proclamation of the Village
Administrator or their designee and the regulations imposed thereby shall
remain in full force and effect until any one of the following shall occur:
         a.   The Village Administrator or their designee determines that the
emergency proclamation and the regulations imposed thereby are no longer
necessary because the emergency proclaimed has ended.
         b.   The Village Board, by official action, modifies or repeals the
emergency proclamation and the regulations imposed thereby or takes such other
or further action as it in its discretion deems necessary and advisable.
         c.   The first regular meeting of the Village Board occurring more
than thirty (30) days after the emergency proclamation.
      3.   Notice Of Emergency: Any Village employee or officer may, at the
direction of the Village Administrator or their designee, notify or warn any
person of the effect of said emergency proclamation and direct said person to
comply with the watering or sprinkling restrictions imposed as herein provided.
If any such person, after having first been notified and warned about said
emergency proclamation and such restrictions, shall continue to violate said
proclamation and restrictions, they shall be deemed to be in violation of this
section and they shall be liable for the penalties provided for in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1976 Code §20-127)
   C.   Violation: Any person charged with a violation of this section may, in
lieu of prosecution for a violation hereof, make payment in accordance with
section
1-4-2 of this Code. (1991 Code; amd. Ord. 2006-43, 8-3-2006; Ord. 2017-51, 9-
21-2017; Ord. 2022-53, 9-1-2022)
7-5B-11: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2009-15, 4-2-2009)
7-5B-12: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE:
All connections and water supplied hereunder and all water used hereunder shall
be upon the express condition that the Village shall not be liable nor shall
any claim be made against it for damages or injury caused by reason of the
breaking of any meter, main, branch service pipe, apparatus or appurtenance
connected with the system or sewage treatment plant, or any part or portion of
said plant, or for any interruption of supply by reason of the breakage of
machinery or by reason of stoppage, alteration, extension or removal. (1976
Code §20-101)
7-5B-13: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
   A.   General Policy:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is as follows:
         a.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
         b.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross
connections, actual or potential, between the public or customer's potable
water system and nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable quality.
         c.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and customer's potable water system.
      2.   Application: This section shall apply to all premises which may be
served by the public potable water supply system of the village.
      3.   Policy: The customer shall be responsible for protection of the
public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back siphonage
of contaminants through the customer's water service connection.
   B.   Reserved.
   C.   Water System:
      1.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts:
the public water supply system and the consumer's system.
      2.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source
facilities and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities
of the potable water system under the control of the director of public works
up to the point where the consumer's water system begins.
      3.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
      4.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the
network of conduits used to deliver water from the resource to the customer's
water system.
      5.   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the
facilities beyond and including the service connection used to convey water
from the public water supply distribution system to points of use.
   D.   Cross Connection Prohibited:
      1.   Connections between the public water supply system and other systems
or equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
      2.   No connection shall be permitted between the public water supply
system and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological and
chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the village.
      3.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which contamination
may enter the public water supply system.
   E.   Surveys, Investigations And Inspections:
      1.   Surveys: The director of public works shall cause surveys and
investigations to be made of properties served by the village water supply and
distribution system to determine whether actual or potential hazards to such
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be open
for public inspection to the extent required by the Illinois freedom of
information act and shall be repeated at least every three (3) years, or as
required by regulatory agencies, or more often if the director of public works
shall deem it necessary. Records of such surveys shall be maintained and made
available for review to the extent required by law for a period of at least
five (5) years.
      2.   Nonresidential Customers:
         a.   The customer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to
the certified cross connection control device inspector (CCCDI) for the
inspection of the presence or absence of cross connections within the
customer's premises, and testing, repair and maintenance of cross connection
control devices within the customer's premises.
         b.   On request by the director of public works, or their authorized
designee, the customer shall furnish information regarding the piping system or
systems for water use within the customer's premises and cross connection
inspection results. The customer's premises shall be open at all reasonable
times to the director of public works, or their designee, for the verification
of information submitted by the customer regarding the piping system or systems
for water use and cross connection inspection results. Refusal to provide
required information shall be prima facie evidence of the presence of
connections prohibited by this section.
         c.   It shall be the responsibility of the water customer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on the customer's premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross connections to the customer's water
system through which contamination or pollution could backflow into the
customer's or the public potable water system. All cross connection control or
other plumbing inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 320/3, as amended.
         d.   It is the responsibility and financial obligation of the water
customer to prevent backflow into the public water supply system by ensuring
that:
            (1)   All cross connections are removed; or approved cross
connection control devices are installed for control of backflow and back
siphonage.
            (2)   Cross connection control devices shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
            (3)   Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at the
time of installation and at least annually by a person approved by the agency
as a cross connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of
mechanical devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions and such additional requirements, if any, of the
village, all as more fully described later in this section.
         e.   Water customers that file reports with the village may request
that portion of a report which may disclose trade secrets or proprietary
processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public. To the
extent permitted by law, confidential portions shall be made available upon
written request to government agencies for uses related to this section. To the
extent permitted by law, portions of a report shall be available for use by the
state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the water customer furnishing the report. Any information accepted as
confidential shall not be transmitted to the general public except as required
by law. It shall be the responsibility of the water customer to prove
confidentiality to the village by timely presentation of the basis for such a
claim of confidentiality. The village shall not be required to make data
available to the public except in accordance with this code and the "Illinois
freedom of information act", 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/1 et seq.
      3.   Residential: The cross connection control device inspector shall
have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a
connection to the public water supply or distribution system of the village for
the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and the
director of public works or their authorized designee shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the village of Woodridge for the purpose
of verifying information submitted by the customer regarding cross connection
control. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the director of public works any information which he may
request regarding the piping system or water use on such property. The refusal
to provide requested information shall be prima facie evidence of the presence
of connections prohibited by this section.
   F.   Devices Required:
      1.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
water service line to a customer's water system, as described in the plumbing
code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35
Illinois administrative code 680, and this section, when in the judgment of the
director of public works or their authorized representative, actual or
potential hazards to the public water supply system may exist. The installation
shall be done by a licensed plumber with a CCCDI registration at the sole
expense of the customer being served. All devices shall be installed in
accordance with manufacturer's recommendations. Reduced pressure zone principle
backflow preventers shall be installed as follows:
         a.   Installation shall be in a location where the unit is readily
accessible for maintenance and testing. Location should be immediately
"downstream" of the water meter.
         b.   Minimum clearance as recommended by the manufacturer shall be
observed.
         c.   All devices shall be protected against flooding and freezing.
         d.   Free draining of the relief port shall be maintained under all
conditions.
         e.   Floor drains at least four inches (4") in diameter shall be
provided.
         f.   Water meters and backflow devices shall not be installed in valve
vaults or manholes. The reduced pressure zone backflow prevention device must
be a minimum of one and one-half feet (11/2') and a maximum of four feet (4')
above the floor.
         g.   There shall be no reduction made in the size of the relief port
drain.
         h.   Provision shall be made for easy and unrestricted removal of the
unit.
         i.   All devices shall be located within ten feet (10') of the water
meter.
      2.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
water service line to a customer's water system where the following conditions
exist:
         a.   Premises having an auxiliary water system, unless such auxiliary
water system is accepted as an additional source by the director of public
works and the source is approved by the agency and village.
         b.   Premises where any substance(s) exist which can create an actual
or potential hazard to the public water supply system.
         c.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment
of the director of public works are not correctable or intricate plumbing
arrangements which make it undeterminable or impractical to determine whether
or not cross connections exist.
         d.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical as determined in
accordance with standard engineering practices to make a complete cross
connection survey.
         e.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
         f.   Premises having an outdoor landscape or lawn sprinkling system.
      3.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
water line to a customer's water system serving, but not necessarily limited
to, the following types of facilities unless the director of public works
determines that no health hazard to the public water supply system exist:
         a.   Hospital, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
         b.   Laboratories.
         c.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
         d.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater
pumping stations.
         e.   Food or beverage processing plants.
         f.   Chemical plants.
         g.   Metal plating industries.
         h.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
         i.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
         j.   Car washes.
         k.   Facilities utilizing an auxiliary water source, and/or booster
pumps for fire suppression.
         l.   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
         m.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
   G.   Type Of Protection Required:
      1.   The type of protection required shall depend on the degree of hazard
which exists as follows:
         a.   An approved fixed air gap shall be installed where the public
water supply system may be contaminated potentially causing a severe health
hazard.
         b.   An approved fixed air gap or an approved reduced pressure zone
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public water
supply system may be contaminated causing a system hazard or health hazard.
         c.   An approved fixed air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure zone principle backflow prevention device or a double check valve
device shall be installed where the public water supply system may be polluted
with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
      2.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for
a fire protection system, reduced pressure zone principle backflow preventers
shall be installed between the fire sprinkler system(s) connected to the public
water supply system when:
         a.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or
other chemicals;
         b.   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
         c.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source;
         d.   There is a connection whereby another source can be connected to
the fire safety system; or
         e.   Reduced principle backflow preventers shall be installed on fire
lines and potable water service lines separately. Fire lines shall be equipped
with a detector check.
   H.   Approved Backflow Prevention Devices:
      1.   Approved backflow prevention devices, methods, installation and
maintenance required by this section are those approved by the mayor and board
of trustees of the village of Woodridge, including those devices, methods,
installation and maintenance requirements as described in the "List Of Approved
Backflow Prevention Assemblies", dated August 7, 1987, published by Foundation
For Cross-Connection Control And Hydraulic Research, University Of Southern
California, American Society Of Sanitary Engineering, American National
Standards Institute and certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be
in compliance with applicable industry specifications, devices which are set
forth in the American Water Works Association standard for backflow prevention
devices - reduced pressure principle and double check valve types AWWA C506-78
(R83) reaffirmed without revision January 30, 1983.
      2.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with 35
Illinois administrative code 653.802, and this section, and only as specified
by the Research Foundation For Cross-Connection Control Of The University Of
Southern California or applicable industry specifications.
   I.   Inspection And Maintenance:
      1.   Duties Of Customer: It shall be the duty of the customer at the
premises on which backflow prevention devices required by this section are
installed to have inspections, tests, maintenance and repairs made in
accordance with the following schedule or more often where inspections indicate
a need or are specified in manufacturer's instructions:
         a.   Fixed air gap separation devices shall be inspected at the time
of installation and at least annually thereafter and required service performed
within five (5) days.
         b.   Dual check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five (5) days.
         c.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually thereafter, and
required service performed within five (5) days.
         d.   All inspections and tests shall be conducted within sixty (60)
days of the anniversary date of installation.
      2.   Testing And Inspection: Testing and inspection shall be performed by
a licensed plumber who is a CCCDI as defined in this section. Proof of status
as a CCCDI shall be in writing.
      3.   Device Tag: Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date
of most recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
      4.   Maintenance Log: A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
         a.   Date of each test.
         b.   Name and approval number of person performing the inspection or
test.
         c.   Test results/inspection.
         d.   Repairs or servicing required.
         e.   Repairs and date completed.
         f.   Services performed and date completed.
      5.   Devices Found Defective: Whenever backflow prevention devices
required by this section are found to be defective, they shall be repaired or
replaced at the expense of the customer within five (5) days or as otherwise
specified by the director of public works. All parts necessary to rebuild a
unit to meet factory and/or state standards shall be provided by the
manufacturer of the backflow preventer, and shall be new parts.
      6.   Written Authorization: Backflow prevention devices shall not be
bypassed, made inoperative, removed or otherwise made ineffective without
specific written authorization by the director of public works.
      7.   Tampering Is Prohibited: No persons other than the director of
public works or their designee or other CCCDI shall remove, repair, test or
perform any maintenance on any reduced pressure principle backflow preventer.
      8.   Out Of Service; Repair: When a unit is out of service, or otherwise
is in need of service, the director of public works shall be notified within
twenty four (24) hours.
      9.   Bypasses: If there is only one service line and the water service
cannot be interrupted, a second backflow preventer may be installed in parallel
with the first. Under no circumstances will a backflow preventer be bypassed by
unprotected piping.
      10.   Copies Of Test Results: Copies of all test results shall be
forwarded to the director of public works at the time of each inspection.
Further said test results shall also be reported to the village's cross
connection control consultant, together with all required fees as hereinafter
provided.
      11.   Original Records Available: Original records submitted to the
director of public works shall be available for inspection by agency personnel
in accordance with 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4(e). These original
records will be maintained by the village of Woodridge as required by law.
   J.   Booster Pumps:
      1.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the water customer to maintain the low
pressure cutoff device in proper working order and to certify in writing to the
director of public works at least once a year that the device is in proper
working order.
   K.   Violations:
      1.   The director of public works shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the customer and occupant thereof, the water service to
any premises wherein any approved backflow prevention device required by these
regulations is not installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner
acceptable to the director of public works; if it is found that the backflow
prevention device has been removed or bypassed; if an unprotected cross
connection exists on the premises; or if a low pressure cutoff device required
by these regulations is not installed and maintained in working order.
Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the director of
public works is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the
public water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of the director of public works or the Illinois
environmental protection agency, such action is required to prevent actual or
potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
      2.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
customer or their successor has corrected or eliminated such conditions or
defects in conformance with this section to the satisfaction of the director of
public works, and any required fees are paid. Water service restoration and
required fees shall be governed by the provisions of subsection
7-5A-8D2d of this chapter.
      3.   Neither the village, the director of public works or their agents or
assigns shall be liable to any customers of the village water supply system for
any injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of said
customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of this section, whether
or not said termination of the water supply was with or without notice.
      4.   The customer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
      5.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this section shall
be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. That person
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violation.
      6.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section, in
addition to the fine provided for in title 1, chapter 4 of this code, shall be
liable to the village for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the village
by reason of such violation, whether the same was caused before or after
notice.
   L.   Fees: The customer shall be responsible for the payment of all fees
required for testing, certification, and providing such results to the village
and its designated cross connection control consultant. All fees shall be paid
to the village's cross connection control consultant, and shall be in the
amount of two dollars five cents ($2.05) (village fee) plus the fee charged by
the cross connection control consultant, from time to time. (Ord. 92-51, 9-10-
1992; amd. Ord. 2009-15, 4-2-2009; Ord. 2010-71, 12-16-2010; Ord. 2011-21, 5-
12-2011; Ord. 2011-49, 10-27-2011; Ord. 2015-59, 12-3-2015; Ord. 2022-53, 9-1-
2022)
ARTICLE C. SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-5C-1: Use Of Public Sewers Required
7-5C-2: Private Facilities
7-5C-2-1: Private Sewage Disposal
7-5C-2-2: Maintenance Of Private Facilities
7-5C-3: Construction Regulations
7-5C-4: Use Restrictions
7-5C-4-1: Discharge Of Effluent
7-5C-4-2: Prohibited Substances
7-5C-4-3: Materials Under Special Review
7-5C-4-4: Prohibited Connections And Structures
7-5C-4-5: Interceptors
7-5C-4-6: Preliminary Treatment
7-5C-4-7: Industrial Wastes
7-5C-4-8: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
7-5C-5: Special Agreements With Industrial Users
7-5C-1: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Unlawful Disposal: It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property within the Village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
Village any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(1976 Code §20-46)
   B.   Discharge Into Natural Outlet: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the Village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
Village, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1976 Code §20-47)
   C.   Private Sewage Disposal: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or
other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (1976 Code §20-48)
   D.   Mandatory Connection To Public System:
      1.   The owner or builder of any new house, building or structure to be
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose in the
Village which abuts any street or right-of-way in which there is a public
sanitary sewer, is hereby required at their expense to install plumbing
fixtures and to connect such fixtures directly to the public sanitary sewer, in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after
the date of official notice to do so; provided that said public sanitary sewer
is within four hundred feet (400') of any property line of the premises, as
measured along the available path of extension of the sanitary sewer main.
      2.   The owner of any house, building, structure or property presently
existing within the Village and used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation and other purposes shall be required at their expense to connect the
plumbing fixtures and house connection therein to the public sanitary sewer if
the present private sewage disposal system for such house, building or
structure is determined to be inadequate as a means of disposing of sewage by
the DuPage County Department of Health and/or the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency or their successor organizations, and these regulatory
agencies fail to approve the installation of a replacement private sewage
disposal system, and said property abuts a street or right-of-way in which
there is a public sanitary sewer within four hundred feet (400') of any
property line of the premises. Said connection must be made within ninety (90)
days after the date of official notice to do so. The private sewage disposal
system shall be abandoned and tank, if any, removed in accordance with title 8
of this Code. Prior to and following the disconnection of the private sewage
disposal system, a representative of the Village shall inspect the system for
compliance. Failure to notify the Village for inspection shall cause the
property owner to unearth the system to show the inspector that the owner has
complied with the provisions of this subsection.
For the purposes of this section, a "public sanitary sewer" shall be defined as
any such sewer owned and operated by a municipality, a county or by a utility
company regulated by the Illinois Commerce Commission. (Ord. 2014-1, 1-9-2014;
amd. Ord. 2017-51, 9-21-2017; Ord. 2022-53, 9-1-2022)
7-5C-2: PRIVATE FACILITIES:
7-5C-2-1: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Private System Required: Where a public sanitary sewer is not available
under the provisions of subsection 7-5C-1D of this article, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the
provisions of this section. (1976 Code §20-87)
   B.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the DuPage and/or Will County Health Department. The application for such
permit shall be made on a form furnished by the DuPage and/or Will County
Health Department, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the Health
Department. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the DuPage and/or Will
County Health Department at the time the application is filed. (1976 Code §20-
88; amd. 1991 Code)
   C.   Inspection: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
DuPage and/or Will County Health Department. It shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the health department when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made in accordance with health department procedures. (1976 Code §20-
89; amd. 1991 Code)
   D.   Construction Specifications: The type, capacities, location and layout
of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of
the state of Illinois private sewage disposal licensing act and code 1  and
with the state of Illinois environmental protection agency. No permit shall be
issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil
absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than forty three
thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet (4,046.86 square meters). No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(1976 Code §20-90)
   E.   Operation Of Private System: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no
expense to the village. (1976 Code §20-92)
   F.   Connection To Public Sewer: At such time as a public sewer becomes
available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided
in subsection 7-5C-1D of this article, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools
and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled
with suitable material. (1976 Code §20-91)
   G.   Effect Of Provisions: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the counties of DuPage and/or Will, the state of Illinois or the United States.
(1976 Code §20-93; amd. 1991 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
7-5C-2-2: MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE FACILITIES:
The expense for cleaning, maintaining or repairing the building drain of any
private property owner to the municipal sewer mains or the cleaning,
maintaining and repairing of any private sewer or storm drain not heretofore or
hereafter accepted by the municipality as a part of the system of public mains
and trunks shall be borne by the property owner or person having such work
performed. The failure of any owner to clean, maintain or repair the building
drain or private sewer or storm drain shall be a violation of this chapter. The
director, or other authorized employee of the village, shall have the right to
enter the premises and inspect the building drain, private sewer or storm drain
upon request. If the cleaning, maintenance or repair of such facilities has not
been carried out upon such inspection, the director may have such cleaning,
maintenance and repairs carried out and bill the cost of such activities to the
owner. (1976 Code §20-53)
7-5C-3: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Sewer Permits:
      1.   Permits Required:
         a.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with
or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the county director and village
engineer. (1976 Code §20-75)
There shall be such classes of sewer permits as is set forth in the DuPage
County sewer use ordinance. (1976 Code §§20-77, 20-79)
         b.   No person shall construct or cause to be constructed any sewer or
appurtenance which is to become a part of the sewer system of the municipality
except under a written permit for the work issued and approved by the county
director and village engineer. (1976 Code §20-51)
      2.   Application For Permit; Fee: The owner or their agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the county director.
The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or
other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the County Director.
A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the County Director at the time
the application is filed. Any industry, as a condition of permit authorization,
must provide information describing its wastewater constituents'
characteristics and type of activity. (1976 Code §20-77)
      3.   Conditions on Issuance of Permit: A building sewer permit will only
be issued and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be
demonstrated that the downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump
stations and wastewater treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity
to adequately and efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(1976 Code §20-78)
   B.   Independent Sewers: A separate and independent building sewer shall be
provided for every building. (1976 Code §20-80)
   C.   Use of Existing Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when the builders or developers can provide evidence
satisfactory to the Village Engineer that such old building's sewers meet all
requirements of this Article. (1976 Code §20-81)
   D.   Construction Specifications:
      1.   Each sanitary sewer which is designed and is to be constructed so as
to constitute an integral part of the system within the boundaries of the
Municipality, as such are now defined and limited or which may hereafter be
defined and limited and which are to be controlled, operated and maintained by
the Village, shall not be constructed until and unless the Director has been
furnished with three (3) complete sets of plans and specifications of the same
prepared with competent engineering assistance. The Municipality shall have the
sole and undisputed right to approve or disapprove such plans and
specifications. (1976 Code §20-52)
      2.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Subdivision Control Ordinance of the
Village, 1  or other applicable rules and regulations of the Village or the
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society of
Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federal Manual of Practice No. 9,
and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Village
Engineer before installation. (1976 Code §20-85)
      3.   Sanitary sewer services shall be a minimum of six inches (6") in
diameter and connected to the sewer main with a manufactured wye at a minimum
angle of thirty degrees (30°) and a maximum angle of forty five degrees (45°).
Sanitary sewer services shall be extended to the property line or building at
minimum gradient of one percent (1%). Sanitary sewer service connections to
sewer mains twelve feet (12') or more in depth shall be constructed with a six
inch (6") tee and riser and backfilled with select granular material or encased
in concrete at the option of the Village Engineer. On a temporary basis,
sanitary services may be terminated with a manufactured plug; in which case,
the location shall be staked and an accurate record kept of the distance from
the nearest downstream manhole along the sewer main. Sanitary sewer service
connections to existing sewer mains shall be made with a tapping machine and
saddle tightly secured to the existing sanitary sewer. (1976 Code §20-82)
      4.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer or if
an overhead sewer system is constructed, sanitary sewage carried by such
building drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved by the Village
Engineer. (1976 Code §20-83)
   E.   Connection Inspections: 1  The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the Village Engineer when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The actual connection shall be
made under the supervision of the Village Engineer or their representative. The
Village Engineer shall be given twenty four (24) hours' prior notice of any
such work. (1976 Code §20-86)
In all cases, the minimum fee for inspection of the connection and sewer line
appurtenances to such connection shall be in such amounts as shall be set forth
in this Code and/or the DuPage County Sewer Use Ordinance. (1976 Code §20-50)
   F.   Surface Runoff: No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff
or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. (1976 Code §20-84)
   G.   Liability of Owner: All costs and expense incident to the installation
and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the Village from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. (1976 Code
§20-79; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 2022-53, 9-1-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
1 1. See subsection 3-1A-3B5 of this Code for plumbing inspection fees.
7-5C-4: USE RESTRICTIONS:
7-5C-4-1: DISCHARGE OF EFFLUENT:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. (1976 Code
§20-59)
Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the Village Engineer. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged, on approval of the Village Engineer, to a
storm sewer or natural outlet. (1976 Code §20-60)
7-5C-4-2: PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES:
All disposals by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except those
discharges in compliance with Federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act and more stringent State and local standards. (1976 Code §20-76)
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following waters
or wastes to any public sewers:
   A.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, motor oil or other flammable
or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   B.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   C.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
   D.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction in the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders. (1976 Code §20-63)
7-5C-4-3: MATERIALS UNDER SPECIAL REVIEW:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Village Engineer or County Director that such wastes can harm
either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property or constitute a nuisance. In forming their opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the Village Engineer or County Director will
give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant
and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The substances
prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees (150°) Fahrenheit (65° centigrade).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees and one hundred fifty degrees (32° - 150°)
Fahrenheit (0° - 65° centigrade).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Village Engineer or County Director.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the water pollution regulations of the Illinois Pollution Control Board for
such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the County Director as necessary after treatment of the
composite sewage to meet the requirements of the State, Federal or other public
agencies having jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the County Director in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      8.   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the County Director in compliance with
applicable State and Federal regulations.
      10.   Any cyanide in excess of .025 mg/l at any time except as permitted
by the County Director in compliance with applicable State and Federal
regulations.
      11.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert, suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined in Section
7-5A-1 of this Chapter.
      12.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters. (1976 Code §20-64)
   B.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in subsection A above, and/or which are in violation
of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June 26, 1978, and
any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the Village Engineer or
County Director, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to
life or constitute a public nuisance, the Village Engineer or County Director
may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of this Article.
If the County Director permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the County Director and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws. (1976 Code §20-65; amd. Ord. 2022-
53, 9-1-2022)
7-5C-4-4: PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Connecting Cesspools, Privies, Etc.: 1  No person or persons shall
connect to any sanitary sewer any private building cesspool, underground drain,
privy, privy vault or any other channel conveying water. (1976 Code §20-61)
   B.   Combined Sewers: Combined sewers shall not be constructed within the
Municipality. (1976 Code §20-62)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  7-5C-2 of this Article.
7-5C-4-5: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
Village Engineer or County Director, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Village Engineer or County
Director and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. (1976 Code §20-66)
7-5C-4-6: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT:
Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at their expense. (1976 Code §20-67; amd. Ord. 2022-53, 9-1-2022)
7-5C-4-7: INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when required
by the Village Engineer or County Director, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Village Engineer
or County Director. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at their
expense and shall be maintained by them so as to be safe and accessible at all
times. (1976 Code §20-68; amd. Ord. 2022-53, 9-1-2022)
7-5C-4-8: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of waters and
wastes to illustrate compliance with this Chapter and any special conditions
for discharge established by the Village Engineer or County Director or
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge.
The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed by the
owner shall be as stipulated by the Village Engineer or County Director, but no
less than once per year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the
Federal, State and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the
results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the Village Engineer or
County Director at such times and in such a manner as prescribed by the Village
Engineer or County Director. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses and reporting required by the Village Engineer or County
Director. At such times as deemed necessary, the Village Engineer or County
Director reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an
outside laboratory service. (1976 Code §20-69)
7-5C-5: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS WITH INDUSTRIAL USERS:
No statement contained in this Article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the County of DuPage and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the County of DuPage for treatment, subject to payment
therefor in accordance with the DuPage County Sewer Use Ordinance, by the
industrial concern; provided such payments are in accordance with Federal and
State guidelines for user charge system. (1976 Code §20-45)
ARTICLE D. FEES, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
7-5D-1: Connection Fees
7-5D-2: Water Service Rates And Charges
7-5D-3: Wastewater Service Charges
7-5D-4: Water Meter Charges
7-5D-5: Compliance With Other Provisions
7-5D-6: Penalty
7-5D-1: CONNECTION FEES:
   A.   Water Connection Charge: There is hereby established a charge for the
connection to the waterworks system of the village, and the Illinois American
Water Company water distribution system serving the village south of Interstate
55, which shall be collected from each applicant for issuance of a permit to
install a house service as follows:
      1.   Connection charge for the village waterworks system:
           Connection Charge For Users Of Connection Charge For Users Of The
Meter Size The Village System Within The  Village System Outside The Village
           Village
1" or less $ 1,750.00                     $ 2,450.00
            Connection Charge For Users Of Connection Charge For Users Of The
Meter Size  The Village System Within The  Village System Outside The Village
            Village
1" or less  $ 1,750.00                     $ 2,450.00
11/2"       3,500.00                       4,900.00
2"          5,600.00                       7,840.00
3"          10,500.00                      14,700.00
2" compound 5,600.00                       7,840.00
3" compound 11,200.00                      15,680.00
4" compound 17,500.00                      24,500.00
6" compound 35,000.00                      49,000.00
6" turbine  63,000.00                      88,200.00
8" turbine  122,500.00                     171,500.00
 
      2.   Connection charge for the Illinois American Water Company water
distribution system:
The connection fee charged by the village to any person, firm or corporation
seeking connection to, or increased service from, the Illinois American Water
Company water distribution system shall be equal to the Illinois commerce
commission approved connection fees charged by Illinois American Water Company
to its customers in the Chicago metro service area. (Ord. 2011-36, 8-11-2011)
   B.   Additional Water Connection Charges:
      1.   Dunham Road Water Main Project:
         a.   Definition Of The Improvement: The Dunham Road water main
extension as fully detailed in the plans and specifications, prepared by
Alvord, Burdick and Howson, dated 1986, and known as contract D-86.
         b.   Benefiting Lots: The following lots are deemed to receive a
direct benefit from the construction of the improvement:
            (1)   Lots 1 and 2 in Littleford's Harvey Plat of Survey, being a
subdivision of part of the Southeast quarter of Section 30, Township 38 North,
Range 11, East of the Third Principal Meridian, in DuPage County, Illinois.
            (2)   Lots 1 and 2 in Zimmer's Assessment Plat, being a subdivision
of part of the Southeast quarter of Section 30, Township 38 North, Range 11,
East of the Third Principal Meridian, in DuPage County, Illinois.
            (3)   Lots 17, 18, 21, 22 and 23 in Harvey and Roberts Subdivision
Unit #1, being a subdivision of part of the Southeast quarter of Section 30,
Township 38 North, Range 11, East of the Third Principal Meridian, in DuPage
County, Illinois.
            (4)   Lots 2, 3 and 4 in Campbell's Assessment Plat, being a
subdivision of part of the Southeast quarter of Section 30, Township 38 North,
Range 11, East of the Third Principal Meridian, in DuPage County, Illinois.
            (5)   Lots 1 and 2 in Saso's Subdivision, being a subdivision of
part of the Southeast quarter of Section 30, Township 38 North, Range 11, East
of the Third Principal Meridian, in DuPage County, Illinois.
         c.   Additional Connection Charge: Upon application for a connection
permit, each of the lots identified in subsection B1b of this section as a lot
receiving a direct benefit from the improvement, shall pay to the village clerk
as an additional connection charge, the sum of two thousand four hundred
dollars ($2,400.00) per acre, multiplied by the acreage of the lot. Said
additional connection charge shall be in addition to those connection charges
and fees otherwise provided for in this article.
      2.   83rd Street Water Main Project:
         a.   Definition Of The Improvement: The 83rd Street water main
extension as fully detailed in the plans and specifications, prepared by
Howard, Needles, Tammen and Bergendoff, dated November 1991.
         b.   Construction Benefit: All of the lots and parcels in the
following area are deemed to receive a direct benefit from the construction of
the improvement:
The east 1,189 feet, excepting therefrom the south 235 feet of the west 349
feet, of the Northwest quarter of Section 31, Township 38 North, Range 11, East
of the Third Principal Meridian, in DuPage County, Illinois (said area
including Lot 1 in Charles K. Ide Plat of Survey, Lots 1, 2 and 3 in Earl
Heartt's Survey and Lots 1 and 2 in McClaskey's Assessment Plat).
         c.   Additional Charge: Upon application for a connection permit, each
of the lots and parcels identified in subsection B2b of this section as a lot
or parcel receiving a direct benefit from the improvement, shall pay to the
village clerk as an additional connection charge, the sum of one thousand three
hundred ten dollars ($1,310.00) per acre, multiplied by the acreage of the lot
or parcel. Said additional connection charge shall be in addition to those
connection charges and fees otherwise provided for in this article. (Ord. 97-
01, 1-9-1997)
      3.   Lemont Road And 83rd Street Water Main Project:
         a.   Definition Of Improvements: The Lemont Road and 83rd Street water
main extension consisting of two thousand six hundred eighty two feet (2,682')
of twelve inch (12") ductile iron pipe, three (3) valves and seven (7) fire
hydrants located on 83rd Street between Lemont Road and Meadowwood Avenue and
on Lemont Road between 83rd Street and 7950 Lemont Road (PIN # 09-31-201-003).
         b.   Construction Benefits: All of the lots and parcels in the
following area are deemed to receive a direct benefit from the previously
constructed improvements:
7950 Lemont Road, PIN #: 09-31-201-003
8000 Lemont Road, PIN #s: 09-31-201-033/034/005/035/036
8110 Lemont Road, PIN #: 09-31-201-009
8114 Lemont Road, PIN #s: 09-31-201-037/038
8118 Lemont Road, PIN #: 09-31-201-011
8200 Lemont Road, PIN #: 09-31-201-017
8210 Lemont Road, PIN #: 09-31-201-020
8240 Lemont Road, PIN #: 09-31-201-021
8250 Lemont Road, PIN #: 09-31-201-022
1040 83rd Street, PIN #: 09-31-201-028
1220 83rd Street, PIN #: 09-31-201-026
1240 83rd Street, PIN #: 09-31-201-025
1340 83rd Street, PIN #: 09-31-201-024
1406 83rd Street, PIN #: 09-31-201-023
8239 Dunham Road, PIN #: 09-31-201-030
8211 Dunham Road, PIN #s: 09-31-201-013/014
         c.   Additional Charge: Upon application for a connection permit, the
parcels identified above as lots or parcels receiving a direct benefit from the
improvements shall pay to the village as an additional connection charge, the
sum of four thousand three hundred ninety five dollars ($4,395.00) per acre
together with interest at a rate equal to five percent (5%) per annum thereon
from March 1, 2009, to the earliest to occur of: 1) the date of payment of the
connection charge, or 2) February 28, 2029. Said additional connection charge
shall be in addition to those connection charges otherwise provided for in this
article. (Ord. 2008-63, 12-18-2008)
   C.   Sewer Connection Fees: The village shall charge and collect from each
applicant a fee for issuance of the permit to install a sewer connection to the
village's sewer system. The fee shall be the sum of two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) per connection, whether single-family, multi-family,
commercial, industrial, or institutional.
In addition to the village sewer connection fee, the applicant is also required
to pay DuPage County's prevailing sewer connection fee. Before issuing a
building permit, proof of payment issued by the county is required from the
applicant. The village owns sewer capacity from the Illinois American Water
Company sewer system (Santa Fe certified area) serving the village south of
Interstate 55 until 2023.
The village shall charge and collect from each applicant a fee for issuance of
a permit to install a sewer connection to Illinois American's sewer system. In
addition, for properties that have an existing connection to Illinois
American's sewer system but have a current allocation of population equivalent
(PE) (as shown on the list dated June 27, 2011, on file with the director of
community development, as updated from time to time) less than the required
allocation as set forth below, the village shall, at the time of application
for any building or zoning permit or approval, collect from such applicant a
fee for the difference between the current allocation of PE and the required
allocation of PE. The fee, whether for a new or existing connection for users
within the Santa Fe certified area, shall be equal to the Illinois commerce
commission approved connection fees charged by Illinois American Water Company
to its customers in the Chicago metro service area.
The applicant shall execute the village's standard form of water/sewer service
agreement prior to or at the time of submitting payment of any fees due
hereunder. (Ord. 2011-36, 8-11-2011)
7-5D-2: WATER SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Bimonthly Fixed Water Maintenance Fee:
      1.   Establishment: There is hereby established a bimonthly fixed water
maintenance fee to each user of the waterworks system of the Village,
regardless of water consumption, which is as follows:
Meter Size Bimonthly Fixed Water  Maintenance Fee
Meter Size           Bimonthly Fixed Water  Maintenance Fee
5/8 inch             $ 18.29
3/4 inch             27.46
1 inch               45.79
11/2 inch            91.50
2 inch               146.40
3 inch               292.81
4 inch               457.50
6 inch compound      915.01
6 inch turbine       1,647.02
8 inch turbine       3,202.55
2 inch unmetered     183.01
2 1/2 inch unmetered 274.51
3 inch unmetered     402.60
4 inch unmetered     549.01
5 inch unmetered     732.01
6 inch unmetered     1,647.02
8 inch unmetered     3,203.15
 
   B.   Water Consumption Charge:
      1.   There is hereby established a charge to each user of the waterworks
system who is located within the corporate limits of the Village, based upon
the amount of water consumed, as registered by the water meters installed in
each house service, as follows: Effective for all water usage billed on or
after January 1, 2024, nine dollars twenty-six cents ($9.26) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons.
      2.   There is hereby established a charge, in addition to charges
described in subsection B1 of this section, to each user of the waterworks
system of the Village who is not located within the corporate limits of the
Village, based upon the amount of water consumed, as registered by water meters
installed in each house service as follows: Effective for all water usage
billed on or after January 1, 2019, four dollars fifty nine cents ($4.59) per
one thousand (1,000) gallons of water consumed.
      3.   Effective for all water usage billed on or after May 1, 2025.
      4.   Effective for all water usage billed on or after December 31, 2025.
   C.   Temporary Unmetered Water Consumption: Water consumed from the Village
waterworks system which is unmetered and on a temporary basis shall be paid for
by each user as provided in this chapter.
   D.   Unmetered Water Use; Deposit: Before a permit for the use of water
shall be issued where meters cannot be conveniently used, the person applying
for the same shall deposit forty dollars ($40.00) as a payment on account of
water to be used by them. On or before thirty (30) days from the date of the
permit, the person to whom such permit is issued shall file with the Director a
statement in writing, verified by their affidavit, showing fully the payment
for which the water was used by them for that time and the amount and location
of all work done by them during said time in connection with which any water
was used or required. The Director shall ascertain from said statement and any
other information the amount due for water so used. If the amount so found to
be due with all other fees and costs chargeable against such person is less
than the sum deposited, the surplus shall be paid back to the depositor. If the
amount due for water so used is more than the sum deposited, then the excess
shall be paid at once to the Director by such person. If such person desires to
continue to use the water after they shall have filed their statement, they
shall again deposit forty dollars ($40.00) with the Director and shall continue
to make deposits thereafter in the same manner as is provided herein with
respect to the first deposit and the method of determining the amount of water
used and the charge for the same shall be the same as the provisions respecting
such first deposit.
   E.   Service Temporarily Shut Off: When water is shut off temporarily at the
request of any consumer and the meter is not removed, the consumer shall pay
the regular minimum rate per month.
   F.   Water Used Without Measurement: The water used on the Village water
system for which rates and methods of measurement are not specifically provided
for by ordinance shall be estimated by the Director and assessed at a rate
equal to those charges established in this chapter. Whenever practical,
however, a meter shall be used as the basis of such estimate.
   G.   Capital Improvement Fee:
      1.   There is hereby established a charge to each user of the waterworks
system who is located within the corporate limits of the Village, based upon
the amount of water consumed, as registered by the water meters installed in
each house service, as follows: Effective for all water usage billed on or
after January 1, 2025, one dollar and ninety cents ($1.90) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons.
      2.   There is hereby established a charge to each user of the waterworks
system who is not located within the corporate limits of the Village, based
upon the amount of water consumed, as registered by water meters installed in
each house service, as follows: Effective for all water usage billed on or
after January 1, 2025, two dollars and eighty-five cents ($2.85) per one
thousand (1,000) gallons of water consumed.
   H.   If the Village is unable to obtain an actual meter reading for any
reason, the Village may estimate usage to be billed. This may include, but is
not limited to, prior year and period's usage and/or recent usage.
(Ord. 2009-15, 4-2-2009; amd. Ord. 2010-20, 4-1-2010; Ord. 2011-24, 5-26-2011;
Ord. 2011-69, 12-8-2011; Ord. 2012-52, 10-25-2012; Ord. 2013-54, 10-24-2013;
Ord. 2014-68, 11-6-2014; Ord. 2015-56, 11-5-2015; Ord. 2018-29, 8-16-2018; Ord.
2018-42, 11-1-2018; Ord. 2019-55, 12-5-2019; Ord. 2020-36, 11-24-2020; Ord.
2021-40, 11-18-2021; Ord. 2022-4, 1-20-2022; Ord. 2022-27, 5-5-2022; Ord.2022-
53, 9-1-2022;Ord. 2022-66, 12-15-2022; Ord. 2023-2, 1-19-2023; Ord. 2023-3, 1-
19-2023; Ord. 2023-18, 5-4-2023; Ord. 2023-43, 11-2-2023; Ord. 2024-28, 4-18-
2024; Ord. 2024-70, 12-19-2024; Ord. 2025-14, 4-17-2025)
7-5D-3: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Wastewater Maintenance Fee Established: There shall be and there is
hereby established a minimum charge and a basic user rate for the use of and
for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the Village.
A basic user rate of ninety cents ($0.90) per one thousand (1,000) gallons
shall be applied to all incorporated users, effective for all water usage
billed on or after January 1, 2016.
   B.   Determination Of Charges:
      1.   Generally: There is hereby established a bimonthly wastewater
maintenance fee for each user of the wastewater system of the Village as
follows:
         a.   The wastewater maintenance fee for the use of and for service
supplied by the wastewater facilities of the Village shall consist of a basic
user charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement, applicable
surcharges and local capital cost charge composed of a debt service charge and
a capital improvement charge.
         b.   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded
by water meters. It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus
replacement and shall be computed as follows:
            (1)   Estimated wastewater volume.
            (2)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
            (3)   Proportion the estimated operation, maintenance and
replacement (OM&R) costs to each user class by volume.
            (4)   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to wastewater facility
categories by volume.
            (5)   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal
sewage strength.
         c.   The wastewater maintenance fee shall be revised periodically to
reflect a change in local capital costs or a change in operation and
maintenance costs, including replacement costs.
         d.   The users of wastewater treatment services will be notified
annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of
the user charges which are attributable to the wastewater treatment operation,
maintenance and replacement.
      2.   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic
user charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the
lowest even increments of one thousand (1,000) gallons.
If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any part, or
all, of their water from sources other than the public waterworks system, all
or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person shall
install and maintain, at their expense, water meters of a type approved by the
village for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from these
other sources 1 .
Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required by the
village if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered water
consumption records.
Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be installed, owned
and maintained by the person. Following approval and installation, such meters
may not be removed, unless service is canceled, without the consent of the
village.
   C.   Appeals: The method of computation of rates and service charges
established for user charges in subsection A of this section shall be made
available to a user within ten (10) days of receipt of a written request for
such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the computations thereof
shall be evaluated by the village administrator within sixty (60) days after
notification of a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
   D.   Revenues:
      1.   Sewerage Fund: The finance director shall receive all such revenues
from the sewerage system and all other funds and monies incident to the
operation of such system as the same may be delivered to them and deposit the
same in the sewerage account of the fund designated as the "sewerage fund of
the village of Woodridge".
The finance director shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner
provided by statute of the "revised cities and villages act" 2 .
All such revenues and monies shall be held by the finance director separate and
apart from their private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of
the village and all of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be
delivered to the finance director not more than ten (10) days after receipt of
the same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be
directed by the mayor and board of trustees.
      2.   Books And Accounts:
         a.   The finance director shall establish a proper system of accounts
and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and
at regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
         b.   The IEPA or its authorized representative shall have access to
any books, documents, papers and records of the village which are applicable to
the village system of user charges or industrial cost recovery for the purpose
of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcripts thereof to ensure
compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any state
grant.
   E.   Notice To Users: Each user will be notified by the village in
conjunction with a regular bill of the rate and that portion of the user
charges or ad valorem taxes which are attributable to wastewater treatment
services, including the financial information of subsection D2a of this
section. (1976 Code §9-54.1; amd. Ord. 86-61, §§1 and 4; Ord. 88-08, §2; 1991
Code; Ord. 2011-24, 5-26-2011; Ord. 2012-52, 10-25-2012; Ord. 2014-68, 11-6-
2014; Ord. 2015-56, 11-5-2015; Ord. 2022-53, 9-1-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-5B-6 of this chapter.
2 1. 65 ILCS.
7-5D-4: WATER METER CHARGES:
Charges for water meters, remote, compound or otherwise, will be determined
from time to time by the village board. These charges shall be equal to the
actual cost incurred by the village and will include a minimum one (1) hour
charge for staff and equipment. (1976 Code §9-55)
Notwithstanding the above, this section shall be applicable to the
nonconforming water meter replacement program provided for in section
7-5B-6-7 of this chapter. (1991 Code; amd. Ord. 97-29, 6-26-1997; Ord. 2022-53,
9-1-2022)
7-5D-5: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS:
The procedures contained in this article for charging any fees, the collection
thereof and the supervision and maintenance of accounts by the village clerk,
director of finance or any other employee or agent of the village, and the
enforcement of collection by any lien, penalty or other applicable action shall
be governed by the village board in conformity with the applicable provisions
of this chapter 1 . (1976 Code §9-56)
 
Notes
1 1. See article A of this chapter.
7-5D-6: PENALTY:
Any person chargeable with the payment of any fee provided for herein who shall
fail to pay same upon demand shall be punished as provided by section
1-4-1 of this code in addition to being subject to any other remedies available
to the village under the provisions of this chapter. (1976 Code §9-57)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
ARTICLE A. BUILDING ADMINISTRATION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Title
8-1A-2: Purpose And Intent
8-1A-3: Title As Remedial
8-1A-4: Definitions
8-1A-5: Application And Scope Of Regulations
8-1A-6: Existing Structures; Structures Moved Into Village
8-1A-7: Contractors; Bond And Insurance Requirements
8-1A-8: Building Official
8-1A-9: Building Permits
8-1A-10: Inspections
8-1A-11: Stop Work Orders
8-1A-12: Certificate Of Occupancy
8-1A-13: Emergency Measures
8-1A-14: Off Street Parking
8-1A-15: Numbering Of Buildings
8-1A-16: Construction Hours
8-1A-17: Appeals
8-1A-18: Safety Requirements
8-1A-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the BUILDING CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF WOODRIDGE.
(Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this title is to provide safety, health and public welfare
through structural strength and stability, means of egress, adequate light and
ventilation and protection to life and property from fire and hazards
incidental to the design, construction, alteration, removal or demolition of
buildings or structures. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-
2023)
8-1A-3: TITLE AS REMEDIAL:
This title shall be construed to secure its expressed intent, which is to
ensure public safety, health and welfare insofar as they are affected by
building construction, through structural strength, adequate egress facilities,
sanitary facilities, light and ventilation and fire safety; and, in general, to
secure safety to life and property from all hazards incidental to the design,
erection, construction, alteration, removal or demolition of all buildings and
structures. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases as used in this title shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning is required by the context. Where terms are
not defined herein and are defined elsewhere in this code or adopted codes,
they shall have the meanings as so defined.
Whenever the words "dwelling", "dwelling unit", "rooming house", "rooming unit"
and "premises" are used in this chapter, they shall be construed as though they
were followed by the words "or any part thereof".
ACCESSIBLE: Refers to any opening in the exterior of a building larger than
eight inches by twelve inches (8" x 12") (e.g., door, window, transom, vent
duct, skylight, etc.) that is within:
   A.   Eighteen feet (18') from the ground or the roof of an adjoining
structure;
   B.   Fourteen feet (14') of any window, fire escape or ledge;
   C.   Four feet (4') of another opening larger than eight inches by twelve
inches (8" x 12"); or
   D.   Four feet (4') of a fire escape or ledge in or projecting from the same
wall, or an adjacent wall, and leading to another building or structure.
APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of Dwelling.
ATTIC: The space between the ceiling beams of the top habitable story and the
roof rafters.
ATTIC, HABITABLE: A habitable attic is an attic that has a stairway as a means
of access and egress and in which at least fifty percent (50%) of the required
area has a ceiling height of seven feet six inches (7'6").
BURGLARY RESISTANT GLAZING MATERIAL: Glass and glasslike materials shall comply
with or exceed the Underwriters Laboratories standard 972 for the burglary
resistant glazing materials as follows: Withstand the impact of a five (5)
pound steel ball dropped from a height of ten feet (10') concentrated within a
five-inch (5") diameter area of the surface without release from the frame.
CEILING HEIGHT: The clear vertical distance from the finished floor to the
finished ceiling.
COMBINATION DEADLATCH AND DEAD BOLT: A device combining a dead bolt and
deadlatch operable by knobs from inside and outside by a key.
CONTRACTOR: A person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
construction, altering, moving, demolishing buildings, structures and/or parts
thereof, or in work incidental to the above operations, either for himself or
for others.
CORPORATE COUNSEL: Whenever used in this title, it shall mean the legal counsel
for the Village of Woodridge.
CYLINDER GUARD: A hardened steel ring or plate surrounding the otherwise
exposed portion of a cylinder lock to prevent cutting, prying, pulling or
wrenching with common tools.
DEAD BOLT: A bolt which has no automatic spring action and which is operated by
a key, thumb turn or lever and is positively held fast in the protected
position.
DEADLATCH: A latch which is positively held in latched position with a strike
by an added integral bolt type mechanism and is released by a key from the
outside and a knob or similar actuator from the inside.
DILAPIDATED: Fallen into ruin, decay or disrepair.
DOOR SCOPE: A system of lenses encased for convenient installation in entrance
doors permitting an inside viewer to observe a one hundred eighty degree (180°)
area of the outside with the door closed.
DOUBLE CYLINDER DEAD BOLT: A locking device that utilizes a key from the
outside to actuate two (2) locking devices, one (1) being a dead bolt.
DWELLING: A building providing shelter, sanitation, and amenities for permanent
habitation. It does not include mobile homes, temporary lodging or individual
sleeping rooms for rent.
DWELLING, DETACHED: A dwelling unit which is entirely surrounded by open space
on a lot. GRADE:
   A.   For buildings adjoining one (1) street only, the elevation of the
established curb at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
   B.   For buildings adjoining more than one (1) street, the average of the
elevations of the established curbs at the center of all walls adjoining
streets.
   C.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average level of
the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building. All walls
approximately parallel to and not more than fifteen feet (15') from a street
line are to be considered as adjoining the street.
HABITABLE ATTIC: See definition of attic, habitable.
INSERT: A hardened steel roller inside unhardened bolts to prevent bolt cutting
with common tools.
LATCH: A spring loaded device which automatically holds a swinging door shut
upon closing by engaging a strike and which is released by turning a knob,
lever or similar actuator from inside or outside.
LOUVERS: A series of removable fixed, slanted or movable slats. (Glass louvers
are descriptive of jalousies. Glass, wood or metal jalousies are considered to
be louvers. Awning windows having sections more than 12 inches in depth are not
considered to be louvers.)
MULTIPLE POINT LOCKS: A system of lever operated bolts that engage a door
opening, at least at the head and sill, operated by a single knob or handle
from the inside and optionally a cylinder locked handle from the outside.
MUNICIPALITY: Whenever used in this Code, it shall mean the Village of
Woodridge. NUISANCE:
   A.   Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence, or
as defined by State law or this Code.
   B.   Any attractive nuisance which may provide detriment to children whether
in a building, on the premises of a building or upon an unoccupied lot. This
includes, but is not limited to, any abandoned houses, structures that do not
comply with the Property Maintenance Code, unoccupied structures, wells,
shafts, basements, foundations, or excavations; abandoned refrigerators and
motor vehicles; or any structurally unsound fences or structures; or any
lumber, trash, fences, debris or vegetation which may provide a hazard.
PETROLEUM BULK STORAGE: A building or structure for the storage of lubricating
oils with a flashpoint of three hundred degrees Fahrenheit (300°F) or higher
and storage space for not more than one (1) motor vehicle.
PLUMBING (PLUMBING FIXTURES): Water heating facilities, water pipes, garbage
disposal units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers,
lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch
basins, drains, vents and other similar supplied fixtures, together with all
connections to water or sewer lines.
PREMISES: A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings and structures
thereon.
PRIVATE DWELLINGS: Any building or structure used as a residence by one (1)
family unit.
PUBLIC AREA: That area used or intended to be used by occupants of more than
one (1) dwelling unit in a dwelling.
PUBLIC PARKING DECK: An unenclosed or partially enclosed structure for the
parking of motor vehicles, with no provision for the repairing or servicing of
such vehicles.
REPAIR: The replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for the
purpose of its maintenance, but not including additional work that would affect
safety, or affect required exit facilities, or affect vital elements of an
elevator, plumbing, gas piping, wiring, ventilating or heating installation or
any work that would be in violation of a provision of this Code or any other
law governing building construction.
ROOMING HOUSE: A building containing a single dwelling unit and not more than
five (5) guestrooms, where lodging is provided with or without meals for
compensation.
SINGLE CYLINDER DEAD BOLT: A dead bolt activated from the outside by a key and
from the inside by a knob, thumb turn, lever or similar actuator.
SLIDING DOOR DEAD BOLT: A single dead bolt which after penetration of the
strike, expands or is pivoted hook type to resist sliding of the door by force.
STORY: The part of a building comprised between a floor and the floor or roof
next above. A mezzanine shall be considered a story if it exceeds one-third (1/
3) of the area of the room it occupies.
A penthouse shall be considered a story if it exceeds one thousand (1,000)
square feet or more than one-third (1/3) of the roof area.
STRIKE: A stationary metal plate designed to momentarily depress a moving latch
for final secure engagement requiring a separate operation for disengagement.
TEMPORARY HOUSING: Any tent, trailer, or other structure used for human shelter
which is not permanently affixed to the ground, to another structure or to any
utilities system on the same premises for more than thirty (30) consecutive
days.
WORKMANLIKE: Executed in a skilled manner; e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-
13-2013; amd. Ord. 2017-51, 9-21-2017; Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-5: APPLICATION AND SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: This title shall control all matters
concerning the construction, alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition,
use, location, occupancy and maintenance of all buildings and structures, and
shall apply to existing or proposed buildings and structures; except as such
matters are otherwise provided for in other ordinances or statutes, or in the
rules and regulations authorized for promulgation under the provisions of this
title.
   B.   Compliance With Provisions: No building or structure shall be
constructed, extended, repaired, removed or altered in violation of these
provisions except for repairs as defined in subsection C of this section, and
except further, that the raising, lowering or moving of a building or structure
as a unit necessitated by a change in legal grade or widening of a street shall
be permitted, provided the building or structure is not otherwise altered or
its use or occupancy changed.
   C.   General Repairs And Maintenance: Ordinary repairs to structures may be
made without application or notice to the village, but such repairs shall not
include the cutting away of any wall, partition, or portion thereof, the
removal or cutting of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or
change of any required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a
structure affecting the exit requirements; nor shall ordinary repairs include
addition to, alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water
supply, sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas, soil, waste, vent or similar
piping, electric wiring or mechanical or other work affecting public health or
general safety.
   D.   Conflicting Provisions: When the provisions contained in this title
conflict with any other provision contained in this code or in any state or
federal statute, the most restrictive or rigid provisions shall control. (Ord.
2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-6: EXISTING STRUCTURES; STRUCTURES MOVED INTO VILLAGE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy any building or structure, or
part thereof, in violation of the provisions of this title, except as otherwise
provided for in this code.
   B.   The legal use and occupancy of any structure existing on the date of
adoption of this title which has been heretofore approved may be continued
without change, except as may be specifically provided for in this title.
   C.   Alterations or repairs may be made to any structure without requiring
the existing structure to comply with all the requirements of this title,
provided such work conforms to that required of a new structure. Alterations or
repairs shall not cause an existing structure to become unsafe or adversely
affect the performance of the building.
   D.   Alterations or repairs to an existing structure which are nonstructural
and do not adversely affect any structural member or any part of the structure
having a fire resistance rating may be made with the same materials of which
the structure is constructed.
   E.   In the event a building or structure is altered or repaired beyond
thirty five percent (35%) of its present physical value cumulatively within a
five (5) year period, the village may require that the entire building or
portions thereof be brought into compliance with all provisions of this title.
   F.   If the structure is increased in floor area or number of stories, the
entire structure shall be made to conform with the requirements of this title
with respect to means of egress, fire protection, fire suppression, light and
ventilation and life safety.
   G.   Buildings and structures moved into or within the village shall comply
with the provisions of this title for new buildings and structures and shall
not be used or occupied in whole or in part until the certificate of occupancy
shall have been issued by the village. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord.
2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-7: CONTRACTORS; BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Insurance Required For All Contractors: All contractors who use the
streets or other public property shall file with the village, prior to issuance
of a building permit, a certificate of insurance with coverage as follows:
      1.   Public liability insurance for one person in the sum of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) and for one accident in the sum of three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00), or a combined single limit of three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00).
      2.   Property damage insurance in the amount of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) limited to not less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for
each accident.
   B.   Occupation Of Streets Or Other Public Property: Streets or other public
property shall not be occupied with building materials unless approved by the
building official, subject to such conditions as the building official deems
necessary.
   C.   Barricades Required: Any person using streets or other public property
for storage or construction shall provide substantial and suitable barricades
and shall provide, place and maintain proper and sufficient lights or flares to
guard and protect all traffic and passersby.
   D.   Damage To Barricading: It shall be unlawful to move, remove, turn off,
extinguish, diminish or disturb any light or barricades required by subsection
C of this section.
   E.   Removal Of Rubbish; Public Property: Rubbish or excavated material
which is deposited on any street or other public property shall be removed from
day to day, as rapidly as produced. Trash containers or dumpsters shall not be
placed on streets and must be located a minimum of five feet (5') from the
curb. Trash containers shall be placed in such a manner that they do not
obstruct the vision of motorists or interfere with pedestrian traffic.
   F.   Removal Of Rubbish; Private Property: Rubbish or surplus materials
shall not be thrown, dropped or swept from any floor above the ground or from
any roof, but shall either be carried or lowered in such a manner as not to
cause dust, and shall be removed from day to day, or placed in an approved
noncombustible container and shall be protected in such a manner as not to be
blown or scattered onto adjacent properties. Trash containers or dumpsters
shall be located on private property and no closer than five feet (5') to the
property line.
   G.   Public Inconvenience: All building operations shall be conducted in a
manner that least inconveniences the public and abutting property owners.
   H.   Protection Of Passersby: Where during construction an excavation or
other hazard exists five feet (5') or less from a public way, the contractor
shall provide and maintain a barricade or fence for the protection of
passersby.
   I.   License Or Permit Bond: Prior to issuance of a permit, every contractor
working on or directly adjacent to any street or other public property shall
execute and file with the village a surety company bond payable to the village
in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), conditioned to indemnify
the village against damage to streets and other public property, and to ensure
the proper installation, repair and/or complete restoration of streets and
other public property in accordance with the instructions of the village
engineer. It shall be the responsibility of the general contractor to notify
the village of any street and other public property that was damaged prior to
the start of construction on a lot.
   J.   Bond Refund: Upon the final completion of all the work under a permit,
so much of such deposit as is necessary to reimburse the village for the repair
and/or restoration of any damaged streets or other public property shall be
retained by the village and the remainder shall be returned to the depositor,
provided, however that nothing herein contained shall preclude the village from
maintaining an action against the person or persons to recover for damage done
to any street or other public property.
   K.   Sewer And Water Contractors:
      1.   Bond: Every person desiring to engage in the business of making any
sewer and/or water installation in the village of Woodridge shall execute and
file with the village a surety company bond payable to the village in the penal
sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), conditioned that said person shall
well and faithfully observe all the ordinances and other regulations of the
village relating to sewer and/or water installations.
      2.   Insurance: Every person desiring to engage in the business of making
any sewer and/or water installation in the village of Woodridge shall file with
the village a certificate of insurance with coverages as follows:
         a.   Public liability insurance for one person in the sum of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) and for one accident in the sum of three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00), or a combined single limit of three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00).
         b.   Property damage insurance in the amount of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) limited to not less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for
each accident.
   L.   Bond For Water Connections: Prior to the issuance of a water connection
permit, a cash bond in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be
deposited with the village. Upon final completion of the work under the permit,
so much of such deposit as is necessary to reimburse the village for the repair
and/or proper restoration of water valve box and other public property shall be
retained by the village and the remainder shall be returned to the depositor
provided, however, that nothing herein shall preclude the village from
maintaining an action against the person or persons to recover for damage done.
   M.   Licensed Plumbing Contractors:
      1.   License Required: Each plumbing contractor must be licensed in
accordance with state statutes.
      2.   Bond: Every person desiring to engage in the business of making any
plumbing installation in the village of Woodridge shall execute and file with
the village a surety company bond payable to the village in the penal sum of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), conditioned that said person shall well and
faithfully observe all the ordinances and other regulations of the village
relating to sewer and/or plumbing installations.
   N.   Electrical Contractors:
      1.   License Required: Each electrical contractor must be licensed in a
municipality in Illinois and provide evidence that such license is in good
standing. Said license must be obtained from a municipality that requires the
passing of a test that determines adequate working knowledge of the national
electrical code.
      2.   Bond: Every person desiring to engage in the business of making
electrical installations in the village of Woodridge shall execute and file
with the village a surety company bond, payable to the village in the penal sum
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), conditioned that said person shall
faithfully observe all ordinances and other regulations of this village
relating to electrical installations.
   O.   Paving Contractors:
      1.   Bond: Every person desiring to receive a permit to perform the
business of installing or replacing concrete or asphalt driveways or sidewalks
in the village of Woodridge shall execute and file with the village a surety
company bond, payable to the village in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), conditioned that said person shall faithfully observe all
ordinances and other regulations of this village relating to the work
performed.
      2.   Insurance: Every person desiring to receive a permit to perform the
business of installing or replacing concrete or asphalt driveways or sidewalks
in the village of Woodridge shall file with the village a certificate of
insurance with coverages as follows:
         a.   Public liability insurance for one person in the sum of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) and for one accident in the sum of three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00), or a combined single limit of three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00).
         b.   Property damage insurance in the amount of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) limited to not less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for
each accident. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-8: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   Defined: Whenever in this title the term "building official" is used,
it shall mean the building commissioner, or his designee, except as it relates
to article L, "Stormwater Management Regulations", of this chapter in which
case the director of public works, or his designee shall be the "building
official". The building official is hereby authorized and it is his duty to
administer and enforce the provisions of the building code, making such
determinations, interpretations, and orders as are necessary therefor, and
requiring such plats, plans and other descriptive material in connection with
applications for permits as are necessary for him to judge compliance with this
title.
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Generally: The building official shall enforce all the provisions of
this title and shall act on any questions relative to the mode or manner of
construction and the materials to be used in the erection, addition to,
alteration, repair, removal, demolition, installation of service equipment and
the location, use, occupancy and maintenance of all buildings and structures.
      2.   Inspections:
         a.   The building official shall make all required inspections, or the
building official may accept reports of inspections by approved agencies or
individuals; and all reports of such inspections shall be in writing and
certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the
responsible individual. The building official may engage such expert opinions
as may be deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that may
arise subject to the approval of the corporate authorities of the village.
         b.   The building official and authorized representatives shall carry
proper credentials for their respective offices for the purpose of inspecting
any and all buildings and premises in the performance of duties under this
title.
      3.   Adopt Rules And Regulations: The building official shall have the
power, as may be necessary in the interest of public health, safety and general
welfare, to adopt and promulgate rules and regulations, to interpret and
implement the provisions of this title, to secure the intent thereof and to
designate requirements applicable because of local climatic or other
conditions; but such rules shall not have the effect of waiving working
stresses or fire resistive requirements specifically provided in this title, or
violating accepted engineering practice involving public safety.
      4.   Records Kept: The building official shall keep official records of
applications received, permits and certificates issued, and fees collected.
Such records shall be retained in the official records so long as the building
or structure to which they relate remains in existence unless otherwise
provided for by law. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-9: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: A permit shall be obtained prior to the erection,
construction, alteration or repair, demolition or movement of any building or
structure in the village of Woodridge, including the construction, alteration,
repair, demolition or movement of any part of an electrical, plumbing or
mechanical system, or prior to the clearing or excavating of the site of any
proposed building or structure, or construct or maintain any driveway in or
across any public walk, parkway or curb. Nothing stated herein shall release a
property owner of his/her responsibility to comply with this section regardless
of whether a structure was erected, constructed, altered or repaired by the
current or former owner of the property.
   B.   Application For Permit: An application for a permit shall be submitted
in such form as the building official may prescribe. Such application shall
contain the full name and address of the applicant and of the owner, and if the
owner is a corporate body, of its responsible officer. The application shall
also list all subcontractors, addresses, phone numbers and a brief description
of work to be performed and such additional information as may be required by
the building official for an intelligent understanding of the work proposed.
   C.   Required Plans And Information:
      1.   Plot Plan: At the time of applying for a permit, the applicant shall
submit to the building official two (2) copies of a plat of survey of the lot
sealed by an Illinois registered land surveyor, showing dimensions of the lot,
the area of the lot, the area of the existing and/or proposed improvements and
the position of the proposed building, or the position of the building to be
altered or added to, and the position of all other buildings or structures that
may be on the lot, including swimming pools, decks, patios, sheds, etc.
Topographical data shall be included showing existing contours and proposed
changes in contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet (2') and
showing proposed foundation elevations relative to USGS elevation datum.
      2.   Plans, Drawings, Etc.: Plans, drawings, specifications and
calculations meeting the architectural, mechanical, structural and electrical
requirements of the building code shall be presented to the building official
for his approval before a permit will be issued. Plans shall specifically show
all design loads and occupant capacities for all spaces and floors and shall be
prepared and sealed by a registered architect licensed in the state of
Illinois. All plans shall be legible and drawn to a scale of no less than one-
eighth inch equals one foot (1/8" = 1').
   Exception: Working drawings in sufficient detail to describe the character
of the work proposed are required for single- family residential additions or
accessory structures.
      3.   Proof Of Compliance; Improvements And Bond: A permit shall not be
issued until satisfactory proof has been submitted that an adequate and
approved water supply and sewerage facilities are available; that surface and
roof drainage will not damage adjoining properties; that, to maintain the
public safety because of the activity on the property, public pedestrian walks
and curbs are provided; and that access for police and fire equipment is
provided on a satisfactory all weather roadway.
   D.   Alteration Of Plans: It shall be unlawful to erase, alter or modify any
lines, figures or coloring contained upon drawings or plans bearing the
approval stamp of the building official, or filed with him for reference. If
during the progress of the execution of such work, it is desired to deviate in
any manner affecting the construction or other essentials of the building from
the terms of the application or drawing, notice of such intention to alter or
deviate shall be given to the building official and approval of an amended plan
showing such alteration or deviation shall be obtained before such alteration
or deviation shall be made.
   E.   Demolition Of Buildings Or Structures:
      1.   Utilities Connections: Before a building or structure may be
demolished, the owner or agent shall notify all utilities having service
connections within the structure, such as water, electric, gas, sewer and other
connections. A permit to demolish a building or structure shall not be issued
until all utilities having service connections within the structure have been
removed or sealed and plugged in a safe manner.
      2.   Plot Plan; Demolition Requirements: The plot plan shall show the
buildings or structures to be demolished and the buildings or structures on the
same lot that are to remain. Demolition must include the removal of all
foundations, septic tanks, stoops, slabs, private sidewalks, driveways and any
other abandoned structures. Any wells must be properly sealed. After the
demolition, the premises will be placed in a satisfactory condition, free from
all unsafe or hazardous conditions. The lot shall be graded in conformance with
the approved grading plans so as to provide positive drainage and seeded so as
to provide a homogenous grass surface.
      3.   Notice To Adjacent Property Owners: Except where damage to a
structure results from fire or storm, upon filing an application for demolition
of any principal residential structure on any lot or parcel within the village,
the applicant shall notify the owners of the surrounding properties in
accordance with this subsection.
         a.   The applicant shall give notices to the owners of record, as
determined by the records of the local real estate tax collector, for all lots
lying within two hundred fifty feet (250') of subject property, exclusive of
public rights of way.
            (1)   Such written notices shall be properly addressed, delivered
personally or sent by first class, postage prepaid, U.S. mail.
            (2)   All required written notices shall include the number
assigned to the application; the place, the nature and the purpose of the
demolition, the date and time of the scheduled demolition; the common address
or location of the subject property; the name and address of the applicant and
owner of the subject property; and the office address of the community
development department where full information concerning the application,
including a legal description, may be obtained.
            (3)   All required written notices shall be personally served or
postmarked not more than fifteen (15) days nor less than seven (7) days in
advance of a scheduled demolition.
         b.   The applicant shall file a sworn affidavit including copies of
the notices with the Village Clerk, showing the names and addresses of the
persons to whom the written notices have been sent. Said affidavit shall create
a presumption that the notices were properly given.
         c.   The applicant shall also request such temporary written
permission from those owners of the properties immediately adjacent to the site
where the demolition will take place. Such permission shall grant authority to
enter onto those adjacent properties or structures which may potentially be
affected by the proposed demolition, both before the demolition work begins and
at reasonable intervals during the work, to inspect and preserve the adjacent
lots, buildings or structures from damage.
   F.   Revocation Of Permit: The building official may revoke a permit issued
in case there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to a
material fact in the application or plans on which the permit or approval was
based.
   G.   Permit For Moving Building Or Structure: Before a building or structure
may be moved, the owner or agent shall notify all utilities having service
connections within the building or structure such as water, electric, gas,
sewer and any other connections. A permit for moving a building or structure
shall not be issued until all utilities having service connections within the
structure have been removed or sealed and plugged in a safe manner. Route
approval shall be required from the public works department and five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) cash bond deposited.
   H.   Commencement Notice To Be Given: The building official shall be given
at least twenty four (24) hours' notice of the starting of work under a permit.
   I.   Payment Of Fees: A permit shall not be issued until all required fees
have been paid.
   J.   Compliance With Title: The permit shall be a license to proceed with
the work and shall not be construed as authority to violate any of the
provisions of this title, except as specifically stipulated by modification or
variation.
   K.   Compliance With Permit: All work shall conform to the approved
application and plans for which the permit has been issued and any approved
amendments thereto.
   L.   Compliance With Plot Plan: All new work shall be located strictly in
accordance with the approved plot plan. One copy of a platted survey, prepared
by a registered land surveyor of the state of Illinois, shall be filed with the
building official within fourteen (14) days after foundation is placed on the
lot as well as the true USGS elevations of top of foundation walls and existing
grade of curb, sidewalk, or existing grade of street or roadway. No
construction will be permitted over the foundation except for water, sewage and
related items unless such platted survey has been filed and approved by the
building official.
   M.   Extension And Expiration Of Building Permit:
      1.   If, after a building permit required by this title shall have been
granted, the operation called for by such permit shall not have been started
within three (3) months after the date thereof, such permit shall be void and
no operation thereunder shall be begun.
      2.   Where, under authority of a permit, work has begun and has not been
prosecuted for a continuous or cumulative period of forty-five (45) days, all
rights under such permits shall thereupon terminate and work may be continued
only after application for and issuance of a new permit. If, after a period of
thirty (30) days following the expiration of a permit, no subsequent permit has
been issued, all structures or portions thereof shall be removed and the site
shall be returned to its original condition.
      3.   Where, under authority of a permit, work has not been completed
within one year after the issuance of such permit and an occupancy permit
issued, all rights under such permit shall thereupon terminate and work may be
continued only after application for and issuance of a new permit. Where the
construction process is expected to exceed one year's time in completion, a
schedule of completion shall be provided at the time of application for permit.
   N.   Permits For Sewer And Water Repairs: Permits are required for sewer and
water repairs. All work must be performed in accordance with the plumbing code
as outlined in article F of this chapter. All parkways must be restored to
their original condition within two (2) weeks of completion of sewer and water
repairs. Any sidewalk which is damaged or removed must be replaced immediately.
The contractor is responsible to ensure that the excavation is performed in a
safe manner and suitable protection for the general public shall be provided.
   Sewer and water excavations on private property shall be compacted, leveled
and restored to natural grade within six (6) months of the date of the issuance
of the permit. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-10: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Preliminary Inspections: Before issuing a permit, the building official
may examine or cause to be examined all buildings, structures and sites for
which an application has been filed.
   Safe access to all work being inspected must be provided by the property
owner/contractor. "Safe access" shall be defined as meeting the requirements of
the most current federal OSHA regulations for that condition.
   B.   Required Inspections:
      1.   Reinspection Fee: Inspections required under the provisions of this
chapter shall be made by the building official. If an inspection has been
scheduled and, in the opinion of the building official, after arrival on the
inspection site, the job is not ready or has not progressed to a point where an
inspection can be made properly, or if access is not possible to perform the
inspection, or if the job site has not been maintained free from excessive
construction debris, a reinspection fee, as listed in the "building permit
fees" ordinance, may be charged. No further inspections shall be made until
such time as the reinspection fee has been paid.
      2.   Advance Notice Required: The owner or contractors are required to
call the community development department twenty-four (24) hours in advance for
the following inspections:
         a.   Footing: Before concrete is poured and after footing and pier
excavation has been completed and all form work and steel reinforcement is
complete.
         b.   Drain tile: Before backfilling, after placement of footing drain
tile, after window wells are attached, gravel has been placed and the walls
have been damp proofed or waterproofed.
         c.   Sewer connection: Before any backfill and after house sewer has
been tapped into sanitary sewer.
         d.   Water connection: Before any backfill and after installation of
the service pipe, main valve inside building, and pressurization of the service
line.
         e.   Septic system: Before any backfilling, after the septic tank and
seepage system have been installed and approved by the health department.
         f.   Well location: Before drilling well.
         g.   Well final: After well pump is installed, connected, and approved
by the health department.
         h.   Electrical service: At the time the electrical service is to be
energized or reenergized.
         i.   Underground electrical: After underground electrical is installed
and before it is covered over.
         j.   Electrical: Before any insulation, vapor barriers or wall finish
is applied and after the rough electric is completed. Wires must be pulled at
the time of inspection.
   Exception: Wires need not be pulled at the time of inspection for remodeling
work.
         k.   Underground plumbing: After under slab plumbing is installed and
before covering.
         l.   Plumbing: Before any insulation, vapor barriers or wall finish is
applied and after the rough plumbing is completed.
         m.   Fireplace: If not installed at time of framing inspection.
Firebox inspection required before any facing is applied.
         n.   Framing: Before any insulation, vapor barrier or wall finish is
applied, after rough electric, plumbing, and HVAC are approved and after the
framing is completed.
         o.   Insulation: Before any interior wall finish is applied and after
insulation and vapor barriers are completed.
         p.   Concrete slab: Before any concrete floor slabs are poured, after
underground electric and plumbing are approved, and after insulation and vapor
barriers are installed.
         q.   Concrete driveway: After stone base is set and formwork
installed. A proof roll inspection of the driveway base may be required.
         r.   Asphalt driveway: After stone base is set. A proof roll
inspection of the driveway base may be required.
         s.   Public sidewalk: After formwork is installed and prior to pour.
         t.   Final inspection: After all work is completed and building is to
be approved for issuance of certificate of occupancy.
      3.   Obstruction Of Inspection: No work shall be done which will cover or
obstruct from view construction work scheduled for inspection which is not yet
approved by the building official.
      4.   Approval: As each stage or item of construction is approved, the
approval shall be recorded by the building official in his official records
thereby authorizing the continuation of the work.
   5.   Right Of Entry: In the discharge of duties, the building official shall
have the authority to enter at any reasonable hour any building, structure or
premises in the jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this title. (Ord.
2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-11: STOP WORK ORDERS:
   A.   Notice To Owner: Upon notice from the building official that work on
any building or structure is being prosecuted contrary to the provisions of
this title, or in an unsafe and dangerous manner, such work shall be
immediately stopped. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given
to the owner of the property involved, or to the owner's agent, or to the
person doing the work, or shall be posted on the building or structure and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   B.   Unlawful Continuance: Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject
to the penalties provided for in section
1-4-1  of this code. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-12: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Occupancy Permit Required: No structures or additions thereto
constructed, moved, remodeled or reconstructed after the effective date hereof,
shall be occupied and used for any purpose, or no builder, landlord or owner of
any structure or additions thereto constructed, moved, remodeled or
reconstructed or for which there is a change in character or use, shall allow
such structure or addition after the effective date hereof to be occupied and
used for any purpose, and no land vacant on the effective date hereof shall be
used for any other use unless an occupancy permit shall first have been
obtained from the village certifying that the proposed use or occupancy
complies with all provisions of this code.
   B.   Applications For Occupancy Permits:
      1.   Generally: Every application for a building permit shall be deemed
an application for an occupancy permit. Every application for an occupancy
permit for a new or changed use of land or structures where no building permit
is required shall be filed with the building official and be in such form and
contain such information as the building official shall provide by general
rule.
      2.   Industrial Uses: All applications for an occupancy permit for any
use to be located in an industrial district where no building permit is
required shall be accompanied by sufficient information to enable the building
official to determine that all the applicable performance standards of title 9,
chapter 8 of this code can and will be complied with at all times.
   C.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit: An occupancy permit shall be issued or
written notice shall be given to the applicant stating the reasons why a
certificate cannot be issued within twenty one (21) days after the receipt of
an application therefor, or after the building official is notified in writing
that the structure or premises are ready for occupancy. All occupancy permits
shall be executed by any two (2) of the following persons: village
administrator; director of community development; building commissioner; or
building inspector.
   D.   Inspections:
      1.   Inspections Prior To Issuance Of Permit: No occupancy permit for a
structure or addition thereto constructed, moved, remodeled or reconstructed
after the effective date hereof shall be issued until such work has been
completed, including off street parking and loading spaces, and the premises
has been inspected by the building official and determined to be in full and
complete compliance with the plans and specifications upon which the issuance
of the building permit was based. No occupancy permit for a new use of any
structure or land shall be issued until the premises has been inspected by the
building official and determined to be in full and complete compliance with all
the applicable regulations for the zoning district in which it is located.
      2.   Reinspection: If a building or any part thereof fails approval in
its final inspection, the violations of this title or other ordinances shall be
corrected by the contractor and notice given the village that the building is
ready for reinspection. The standard for reinspections shall be the same as the
standard for inspections.
   E.   Temporary Occupancy Permit: Pending the issuance of a permanent
occupancy permit, a temporary permit may be issued to be valid for a period of
not to exceed six (6) months from its date pending the completion of any
addition or during partial occupancy of the premises. A cash bond in an amount
equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the village's estimate of
completion costs shall be submitted with any application for a temporary
occupancy permit. A temporary occupancy permit shall contain such conditions as
the village deems appropriate. In the event that any construction or building
to which a temporary occupancy permit has been issued has not been fully
completed so as to comply with all applicable village ordinances at the end of
the six (6) month period, the building official may cause said premises to be
vacated and to remain vacated until full compliance with all applicable
ordinances of the village has been obtained. The building official has the
right, but not the obligation, to utilize the cash bond to cause the completion
of any remaining items necessary to obtain a permanent occupancy permit. Prior
to issuance of any temporary occupancy permit, the water meter and the remote
reader must be installed. A conduit must be provided for the installation of
the remote water meter reader cable.
   F.   Yielding Of Occupancy: A contractor shall not yield occupancy of a
building to the owner or tenant, nor shall a builder or owner yield occupancy
to a tenant until a certificate of occupancy has been posted. No owner or
tenant shall take occupancy of a building without an occupancy permit having
been issued.
   G.   Supplemental Requirements: Notwithstanding any provision in this code
to the contrary, the following improvements and supplemental documentation
shall be required prior to the issuance of a final occupancy certificate:
      1.   All fees and charges due and payable to the village shall be
remitted.
      2.   The buffalo box (water shutoff) shall be adjusted to grade,
accessible and operable.
      3.   All public and private sidewalks on and adjacent to the lot shall be
completed.
      4.   Driveway and approach paving shall be completed.
      5.   Any replacement or repair to damaged curbs and gutters, streets,
sidewalk, driveway or street lighting shall be completed.
      6.   All final grading within the lot and parkway areas shall be
completed and a final topographic survey shall be submitted and approved by the
village. All grading must be completed in compliance with approved subdivision
grading plans. No fill may be added to lots without obtaining a fill permit.
      7.   An established, homogeneous grass surface shall be provided in all
yards and parkway areas. A sod surface will be acceptable. If a seeded surface
is provided and has not been established satisfactorily at the time of final
inspection, a cash bond will be required in the amount of one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the village's estimate of the cost of providing a sodded
surface. The cash bond will be returned when the building official has
determined that a homogeneous grass surface has been established. The bond will
be forfeited if such a surface has not been achieved by the expiration date of
the temporary occupancy permit.
      8.   Trees of an approved species shall be planted in the parkway areas.
Size and spacing shall be per title 7, chapter 4 of this code.
      9.   All other required landscaping shall be installed.
      10.   Address numbers shall be affixed to the building.
      11.   A final plot plan shall be submitted in digitized electronic format
showing all final as built dimensions of all items required by subsections
8-1A-9 C1 and
8-1A-9 L of this article.
      12.   For purposes of meeting the local records act 1, a final set of
construction blueprints shall be converted to a digitized electronic format and
submitted to the village prior to the issuance of a final certificate of
occupancy. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-13: EMERGENCY MEASURES:
   A.   Vacating Structures: When, in the opinion of the building official,
there is actual and immediate danger of failure or collapse of a building or
structure or any part thereof which would endanger life, or when any structure
or part of a structure has fallen and life is endangered by the occupation of
the building or structure, the building official is hereby authorized and
empowered to order and require the inmates and occupants to vacate the same
forthwith. The building official shall post the building or structure as
uninhabitable at each entrance. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter
such building or structure except for the purpose of making the required
repairs or demolishing the same.
   B.   Temporary Safeguards: When, in the opinion of the building official,
there is actual and immediate danger of collapse or failure of a building or
structure or any part thereof which would endanger life, the building official
shall cause the necessary work to be done to render such building or structure
or part thereof temporarily safe.
   C.   Closing Streets: When necessary for the public safety, the building
official may temporarily close sidewalks, streets, buildings and structures,
and places adjacent to such unsafe structures and prohibit the same from being
used. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-14: OFF STREET PARKING:
All off street parking and loading facilities, including driveways and
pavement, shall be constructed in accordance with all provisions contained in
the subdivision regulations ordinance and the zoning ordinance of the village
of Woodridge, and such provisions are hereby incorporated into the building
code of the village of Woodridge by reference, as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-15: NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Required: All houses, buildings and structures within the village shall
be numbered in accordance with the regulations set forth by the community
development department.
   B.   Duty To Affix; Visibility: It shall be the duty of the owner or
occupant of every house, building or structure in the village to have placed
thereon, so as to be clearly visible from the street, figures showing the
number of the house, building or structure. The minimum height of letters and
numbers shall be four inches (4") set on a contrasting background.
   C.   Payment Of Fine: Any person charged with a violation of any provision
of this section may, in lieu of prosecution for a violation thereof, make
payment in accordance with title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-
13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-16: CONSTRUCTION HOURS:
Between June 1 and August 31, no construction, erection, excavation, or any
other process of building whatsoever, shall be performed within the village
before the hour of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. or after the hour of five o'clock
(5:00) P.M. on any Sunday, or before the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or
after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on any other day.
Between September 1 and May 31, no construction, erection, excavation, or any
other process of building whatsoever, shall be performed within the village
before the hour of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. or after the hour of five o'clock
(5:00) P.M. on any Sunday, or before the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or
after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on any other day. (Ord. 2015-33, 6-4-2015; amd.
Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1A-17: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the building official may appeal to the
Plan Commission in accordance with the provisions set forth in this code. Any
application for a variation to the building code, which is filed by or on
behalf of the owner or owners of the property affected, shall be accompanied by
the payment of a fee, the amount of which shall be established from time to
time by the board of trustees. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-
2-2023)
8-1A-18: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
The following safety requirements shall apply whenever: a) a demolition permit
is required as set forth in this title, or b) whenever there is new
construction where eighty percent (80%) of the premises located within seventy-
five feet (75') of the premises on which said new construction is to occur,
exclusive of public right of way, are improved with dwelling units:
   A.   Fencing: The applicant shall install a six-foot (6') chain link fence
around the perimeter of either the excavation, the structure under
construction, or the entire construction area in a location and manner approved
by the community development department. The fencing shall be installed before
commencement of any work on the subject property pursuant to any permit issued
by the Village of Woodridge.
   B.   Litter Control And Cleanup: Litter and debris at the subject property
shall be controlled within an enclosed container at all times. The applicant
shall designate a person as having responsibility to assure compliance with the
provision. The permit shall specify the location of the container as approved
by the community development department.
   C.   Construction Traffic Management: All construction parking shall be in
compliance with title 9, chapter 10 of this code. General contractor is
responsible for providing a parking plan outlining off street parking; in no
case shall parking be allowed on both sides of the street.
   D.   Sign; Required Information: Upon issuance of a permit, the general
contractor shall place on the site, at or near the front property line and
facing the public right of way a sign that includes the following information:
the general contractor's name; an emergency telephone number to contact the
general contractor; a notice that all contractors using the site shall maintain
all trash and debris in an appropriate container at all times; a notice that a
portable restroom is supplied on the site for contractor's use; the days and
hours when construction may occur; and the statement “Danger Construction Area
No Trespassing.”
   E.   Sidewalk Maintenance: The public right of way shall be maintained clean
and safe. The sidewalk shall remain safely passable. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013;
amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
ARTICLE B. RESERVED
(Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013)
ARTICLE C. SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CODE
SECTION:
8-1C-1: Single-Family Building Housing Code
8-1C-1: SINGLE-FAMILY BUILDING HOUSING CODE:
   A.   Code Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out
herein that certain Code known as the International Residential Code for One-
and Two-Family Dwellings, 2021, as prepared and published by the International
Code Council, Inc., together with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes hereinafter set forth, one (1) copy of which has been for a period of
more than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date hereof and now is on
file in the Office of the Village Clerk.
   B.   Amendments To Code: The following additions, insertions, deletions and
changes are hereby made to the international residential code for one- and two-
family dwellings, 2021:
   Section R101.1 Title. Delete in its entirety.
   Section R101.2 Scope. Amend by deleting the exceptions.
   Section R102 Applicability. Amend by adding the following new sections
R102.8 and R102.9:
   Section R102.8 Electrical. All references within this code to "ICC
electrical code" shall be deleted in their entirety and in lieu thereof, the
following language shall be substituted: "National electrical code, 2020,"
   Section R102.9 Plumbing. All references within this code to the ICC plumbing
code shall be deemed changed to read the "Illinois plumbing code, as currently
adopted, prepared and published by the Illinois department of public health".
   Section R105.1.1 Workmanship. Amend by adding the following section
R105.1.1:
   Section R105.1.1 Workmanship. Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or
installations which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of
this code shall be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed
in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
   Section R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Delete in its entirety. Section
R105.5 Expiration. Delete in its entirety.
   Section R110.2 Change In Use. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section R110.2:
   Section R110.2 Change In Use. Changes in the character or use of an existing
structure shall require that use or structure to be in compliance with all
current codes and regulations of the village of Woodridge.
   Section R110.3 Certificate Issued. Delete in its entirety. Section R112
Board Of Appeals. Delete in its entirety.
   Section R301 Design Criteria. Amend by adding the following section R301.9:
   Section R301.9 Openings Between Floors Or Stories. Buildings or structures
shall be designed such that no more than two floors or stories may communicate
with each other through openings in the floor (stairways, balconies, atriums,
etc.) from an unfinished area. The placement of a door at the top or bottom of
the stairs to the basement in a two story structure is an acceptable means of
compliance.
   Table R301.2(1) Climatic And Geographic Design Criteria. Delete in its
entirety and in lieu thereof substitute the following new table R301.2(1):
   TABLE 301.2(1)
   CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
 
          WIND DESIGN                                     SUBJECT TO DAMAGE
GROUND                                          SEISMIC   FROM
SNOW LOAD Speed   Topographic Special Windbour  DESIGN    Weath- Frost
          (mph)   Effects     Wind    ne Debris CATEGO RY ering  Line  Termite
                              Region  Zone                       Depth
25        107 mph No          No      No        A         Severe 42    Moderate
                                                                       to heavy
 
 
ICE BARRIER           FLOOD HAZARDS       AIR FREEZING INDEX MEAN ANNUAL
UNDERLAYMENT REQUIRED                                        TEMPERATURE
YES                   SECTION 8-1L VOW MC 2,000              50
 
Section R301.5 Live Load. Amended by deleting all reference to the language "30
pounds live load for sleeping rooms" contained in table R301.5 in its entirety
and in lieu thereof, the following language shall be substituted:
      ..."Live load for sleeping rooms...40 pounds"...
   Section R302.2 Townhouses. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section R302.2:
      Section R302.2 Townhouses: Each townhouse shall be considered a separate
building and shall be separated by fire-resistance-rated wall assemblies
meeting the requirements of Section R302.1 for exterior walls and dwelling
units in townhouses shall be separated from each other by wall and/or floor
assemblies of not less than two-hour fire-resistance rating when tested in
accordance with ASTME 119. Fire-resistance rated floor, ceiling and wall
assemblies shall extend to and be tight against the exterior wall, and wall
assemblies shall extend to the underside of the roof sheathing. The roof
sheathing shall be fire-retardant treated on each side for a minimum distance
of four feet (4') with no openings or penetrations within. The treated
sheathing must extend at least to the next furthest rafter on alternating
sheets. Roof covering materials shall be class A or class B.
   Section R302.3 Two-Family Dwellings. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute the following new section R302.3:
      Section R302.3 Two-Family Dwellings. Dwelling units in two-family
dwellings shall be separated from each other by wall and/or floor assemblies of
not less than two- hour fire-resistance rating when tested in accordance with
ASTME 119. Fire-resistance rated floor, ceiling and wall assemblies shall
extend to and be tight against the exterior wall, and wall assemblies shall
extend to the underside of the roof sheathing. The roof sheathing shall be
fire-retardant treated on either side for a minimum distance of four feet (4')
with no openings or penetrations within. The treated sheathing must extend at
least to the next furthest rafter on alternating sheets. Roof covering
materials shall be class A or class B.
   Section R302.12 Draftstopping Required. Amend by deleting all reference to
the language "1,000 square feet" contained therein and in lieu thereof, the
following language shall be substituted:
      ..."500 square feet"...
   Section R304 Minimum Room Areas. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section R304:
      R304 Minimum Room Areas.
      Section R304.1 Minimum Room Areas. Min. Area Square Ft.
                                                                     Min. Area
                                                                     Square Ft.
1. Living, dining, cooking:
 a. Living, dining and cooking when in one room (includes area       220
    occupied by equipment)
 b. Living, dining, when in one room                                 180
 c. Living only in one room, when dining space is provided in        160
    kitchen or separate room
    Kitchen, cooking only (including area occupied by equipment)
 d. Provide at least thirty (30) square feet additional area, usable 60
    for dining purposes when dining space is included in the
    kitchen.
 e. Dining only                                                      100
2. Sleeping:
 a. Major bedroom                                                    100
 b. Other bedrooms                                                   80
3. Bathroom:
 Size: Adequate for water closet, lavatory, and tub or shower, and
 designed in accordance with section R307. The water closet may be
 located in a separate compartment adjoining the bathrooms.
 
   Section R304.2 Additional Habitable Rooms. Minimum floor area is eighty (80)
square feet.
   Section R304.4 Bedroom Closets. Provide each bedroom with at least one (1)
closet or wardrobe having a minimum:
      1.   Depth: Two feet (2').
      2.   Floor area: Five (5) square feet.
      3.   Height: Six feet (6').
   Section R304.5 Space For Heating Units.
      1.   Provide space within the building for heating unit or system in
accordance with all applicable village codes.
      2.   Provide clearances for maintenance and repair in accordance with all
applicable village codes.
      3.   Provide clearances for fire safety, determined by insulation of
heater and combustibility of walls, floor, and ceiling, as required by
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., gas and oil equipment list and the
manufacturer's specifications.
      4.   Furnace shall not be located in any sleeping room.
      5.   Furnace shall not be located in the garage or directly accessible to
the garage.
   Section R304.6 Interior Doors.
      1.   Provide a door for each opening to a bedroom, bathroom, and toilet
compartment.
      2.   Minimum sizes:
         a.   All habitable rooms: Two feet and six inches (2'6") wide by six
feet and eight inches (6'8") high;
         b.   Bathrooms: Two feet and four inches (2'4") wide by six feet and
eight inches (6'8") high;
         c.   Powder rooms: Two feet (2'0") wide by six feet and eight inches
(6'8") high.
      3.   Service entrance doors: A minimum width of two feet and eight inches
(2'8"), and a minimum height of six feet and eight inches (6'8").
   Section R306.5 Townhomes. Amend by adding the following section R306.5:
      Section R306.5 Townhomes. Townhomes, two family, and multifamily homes
must be supplied with its own separate domestic water service and sewer
lateral. These utilities must exit the units independently.
   Section R309.6 Opening Protection. Add the following section R309.6:
      Section R309.6 Opening Protection. Openings from a private garage
directly into a room used for sleeping purposes are not permitted. Other
openings between the garage and the residence shall be equipped with a three-
quarter (3/4) hour fire rated door.
   Section R309.7 Separation Required. Add the following new section R309.7:
      Section R309.7 Separation Required. The garage shall be separated from
the residence and its attic area by means of a minimum 1-hour rated fire
barrier constructed of five-eighths inch (5/8") type X gypsum board or
equivalent applied to all walls, ceilings and support structures, including
beams and columns, of the garage. Said gypsum board assembly shall be fully
fire taped, and all penetrations through said assembly shall be firestopped
with a firestop system listed and approved for the application. Ducts in a
private garage and ducts penetrating the walls or ceilings separating the
dwelling unit from the garage shall be encapsulated in construction equal to
that of those walls and ceilings, and shall have no openings into the garage.
   Section R310.1 Emergency Escape And Rescue Required. Amend by deleting all
three (3) exemptions in their entirety.
   Section R310.4 Area Wells. Amend by adding the following new section
R310.4.5:
   Section R310.4.5 Protective Covers. The opening at the top of all window
wells shall be covered with a grate or other material capable of supporting a
fifty (50) pound live load on an area equal to one square foot, or a three
hundred (300) pound concentrated load acting over an area of four (4) square
inches, whichever produces the greater stresses. Said covers shall be
removable, and, if locked, shall be able to be opened from the inside without
the use of a key, tool or special knowledge.
   Section R311.2 Egress Door Required. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute the following new section R311.2:
      Section R311.2 Egress Door Required. Not less than two (2) exits
conforming to this article shall be provided from each dwelling unit. The
required egress doors shall provide direct access from habitable portions of
the dwelling to the exterior without requiring travel through the garage. The
required egress doors shall be a side-hinged door not less than three feet (3')
in width and six feet and eight inches (6'8") in height, except that, for doors
other than the front or main entry/exit door, a minimum six foot (6') wide
sliding glass door, with a minimum clear width of thirty-two inches (32") when
opened, may be used.
      Exception: Townhomes with rear garage: second means of egress is
permitted to be a window that meets egressing requirements of R310.1.1.
   Section R311.7.8 Handrails. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section R311.7.8:
      Section R311.7.8 Handrails. Handrails shall be provided on at least one
(1) side of each continuous run of treads or flight with three (3) or more
risers. Spiral stairways shall have the required handrail located on the
outside radius.
   Section R312.1.2 Guards. Add the following new section R312.1.2.1:
      Section R312.1.2.1 Guardrails Required. Porches, balconies or raised
floor surfaces located more than twenty-four inches (24") above the floor or
grade below shall have guardrails not less than thirty-six inches (36") in
height. Porches, balconies or raised floor surfaces located more than eighty-
four inches (84") above the floor or grade below shall have guardrails not less
than forty-two inches (42") in height. Open sides of stairs with a total rise
of more than twenty-four inches (24") above the floor or grade below shall have
guardrails not less than thirty-six inches (36") in height measured vertically
from the nosing of the tread.
   Section R313.2 One- And Two-Family Dwellings Automatic Fire Systems. Delete
in its entirety and in lieu thereof substitute the following new section
R313.2:
      Section R313.2 One- And Two-Family Dwellings Automatic Fire Systems. An
automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall be installed in one- and two-
family dwellings.
      Exemptions:
      1.   An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required
for additions or alterations to existing buildings that are not already
provided with an automatic residential sprinkler system.
      2.   An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required
for new construction when the underside of all interior stairs are protected
with fire taped 5/8 type X gypsum board or equal.
   Section R401.1 Application. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section R401.1:
      Section R401.1 Application. The provisions of this chapter shall control
the design and construction of the foundation and foundation spaces for all
buildings.
   Section R401.2 Requirements. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section R401.2:
      Section R401.2 Requirements. The foundation and its structural elements
shall be capable of supporting all superimposed live, dead and other loads
according to section R301 and all lateral loads in accordance with the
provisions of this code. Fills, which support footings and foundations, shall
be designed, installed and tested in accordance with accepted engineering
practice. Engineering fill shall be compacted to ninety-five percent (95%)
modified density.
   Section R402.1 Wood Foundations. Delete in its entirety.
   Section R403.1 General. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section R403.1:
      Section R403.1 General. All exterior walls shall be supported on
continuous concrete footings, or other approved structural systems which shall
be of sufficient design to support safely the loads imposed as determined from
the character of the soil. Footings shall be supported on undisturbed natural
soil or engineered fill.
   Section R403.1.1 Minimum Size. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section R403.1.1:
      Section R403.1.1 Minimum Size.
      1.   Minimum dimension for spread footings shall be eight inches (8")
deep by eighteen inches (18") wide, except the masonry veneer on frame and
solid masonry walls shall be ten inches (10") deep by twenty inches (20") wide.
      2.   The depth of all footings shall be no less than forty-two inches
(42") below grade.
      3.   Reinforce with steel bars where footings cross or bear on fill
trenches or other unstable soil.
      4.   Footing dimension listed within are based upon soils of average
bearing capacity (3,000 lbs. per square foot). For soils of lesser bearing
capacity or where unusual loading conditions exist, larger footings and
reinforcement may be required. A licensed architect or engineer must provide
design.
      5.   Footing must be keyed a minimum of two inches (2") into undisturbed
soil, or shall be interlocked to the soil by other approved methods.
   Figure R403.1(2) Permanent Wood Foundation Basement Wall section. Delete in
its entirety. Figure R403.1(3) Permanent Wood Foundation Crawl Space section.
Delete in its entirety.
   Section R403.2 Footings For Wood Foundations. Delete in its entirety and in
lieu thereof substitute the following section R403.2:
      Section R403.2. Footings For Walls, Piers, Posts And Columns.
      1.   Provide a minimum of forty-two inch (42") frost protection.
      2.   Provide two inch by two inch (2" x 2") keyway in the top of the
footing underneath the centerline of the wall.
      3.   Trench foundation shall be a minimum eight inches (8") wide and
shall be allowed only for single story frame buildings.
      4.   One story dwellings minimum pier area thirty inches by thirty inches
by twelve inches (30" x 30" x 12"). Two story dwellings minimum pier area
thirty-six inches by thirty-six inches by fifteen inches (36" x 36" x 15"). In
all cases, pier must be designed to support all live and dead loads. Pier
foundations for roofed-in structures attached to the principal dwelling shall
be designed by an architect or structural engineer licensed in the state of
Illinois. These structures shall be open or screened-in porches only.
      5.   Chimney footings for dwellings must have a minimum thickness of
twelve inches (12"), with a minimum projection of six inches (6") on each side.
      6.   Chimney footings must be poured integral with the wall footing when
the chimney occurs in the outside wall or an interior bearing wall and must
start at the level of the lowest adjacent wall footing.
      7.   All stoops, steps and platforms at egress areas must be supported in
a manner acceptable to the building official, such as wing walls extending to
the footing or a full frost protected foundation.
   Section R403.3 Frost Protected Shallow Foundations. Delete in its entirety.
   Table R403.3 Minimum Insulation Requirements For Frost- Protected
   Footings In Heated Buildings. Delete table R403.3 in its entirety.
   Section R404 Foundation And Retaining Walls. Amend by adding the following
new section R404.1.10:
      Section R404.1.10 Anchorage For Slabs, Stairs And Area. Provide dowel bar
anchorage for porch and terrace slabs, concrete or masonry steps and area
walls, which adjoin foundation walls. For basementless portions and attached
garages, embed four (4) one-half inch (1/2") round, four inch (4") long hooked
bars halfway into main wall, two (2) near top and two (2) near bottom of
attached wall. Epoxy into place if holes are oversized.
   Section R404.2 Wood Foundation Walls. Delete in its entirety.
   Section R405.1 Concrete Or Masonry Foundations. Amend by deleting the
exception and adding the following new section R405.1.2:
      Section R405.1.2 Footing Drain Tile.
      1.   Required outside of basement and crawlspace footings. Inside
location only upon approval of the building official. Minimum diameter shall be
four inches (4").
      2.   Provide drains in all below grade stair landings and window wells.
Connect drains to footing drain tile with approved "T" fittings.
      3.   Connect with tight-joint glazed tile or approved equal to storm
sewer, sump pump, dry well or other approved outlet.
      4.   Sump pumps must discharge a minimum of three feet (3') from the
foundation walls. Discharge must conform to the approved grading plan and in no
case shall be extended closer than three feet (3') from the rear or side
property line. Sump pumps may not discharge to the front yard or exterior side
yard unless specifically approved by the village engineer and, regardless of
the permitted location, may not cause a nuisance or hazard to neighboring
properties or public right-of- ways.
   Section R405.2 Wood Foundations. Delete in its entirety.
   Section R406.3 Dampproofing For Wood Foundations. Delete in its entirety.
   Section R407 Columns. Amend by adding the following new section R407.4:
      Section R407.4 Porches And Terraces. Wooden post supports for porches and
decks constructed six feet (6') or more above grade, as measured to the top of
the finished deck floor, shall be no less than six inch by six inch (6" x 6")
nominal lumber. All lumber used for the exterior construction of porches,
terraces and decks shall be naturally durable wood or pressure treated wood.
   Section R408 Under-Floor Space. Amend by adding the following new section
R408.8:
      Section R408.8 Covering. In crawl spaces, the soil shall be leveled, and
covered with a minimum 6 mil polyethylene or approved vapor retarder with
joints lapped not less than six inches (6"). The polyethylene or approved vapor
retarder shall then be covered with a minimum of a two inch (2") screed coat of
concrete.
      Crawlspaces shall be ground level at least twenty-four inches (24") below
bottom of floor joists and girders. Ground under dwelling is to be
approximately level.
   Section R408.4 Access. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof substitute
the following new section R408.4:
      Section R408.4 Access. Provide an access of not less than twenty-four
inches by twenty-four inches (24" x 24").
   Section R502.2.1 Decks. Amend by adding the following new section
R502.2.1.1:
      Section R502.2.1.1 Cantilevered Decks. Decks shall have a maximum
cantilever of two feet (2').
   Section R502.3.1 Sleeping Areas And Attic Joists. Delete in its entirety and
in lieu thereof substitute the following new section R502.3.1:
      Section R502.3.1 Sleeping Areas And Attic Joists. Table R502.3.1(2) shall
be utilized to determine the maximum allowable span of floor joists that
support sleeping areas and attics that are accessed by means of a fixed
stairway provided that the design load does not exceed forty pounds per square
foot (40 lbs. psf) and the design dead load does not exceed ten pounds per
square foot (10 psf). The allowable span of ceiling joists that support attics
utilized for limited storage or no storage shall be determined in accordance
with section R802.4.
   Section R502.4 Joists Under Bearing Partitions. Amend by adding the
following new section R502.4.1:
      Section R502.4.1 Joists Below Bathtubs. The number of joists which
support and run parallel to the length of a bathtub shall be doubled.
   Section R502.11 Wood Trusses. Amend by adding the following new section
R502.11.5:
      Section R502.11.5 Sheathing Required. Engineered trusses and joists used
in floor construction must be fully sheathed on the underside with minimum
five-eighths inch (5/8") type X gypsum board or equivalent.
      Exemption:
      1.   Fully sprinklered structures.
   Section R504 Pressure Preservatively Treated-Wood Floors (On Ground). Delete
in its entirety.
   Section R506.2.2 Base. Amend by deleting the exception in its entirety and
adding the following new sections R506.2.2.1 and R506.2.2.2:
      Section R506.2.2.1 Grade Beams. Grade beam construction permitted
consisting of a four inch (4") concrete floor on a minimum four inches (4") of
crushed stone, sand and gravel poured monolithically with a minimum ten inches
(10") thickened outer edge a width of twenty inches (20") around perimeter of
building, said twenty inch (20") grade beam to be of equal depth on undisturbed
soil.
      Section R506.2.2.2 Gas Curb. All common walls between the garage and
dwelling, including any openings for service doors, shall have a six inch (6")
gas curb, or be made gas tight.
   Section R703.2 Weather Resistant Sheathing Paper. Delete the exception in
its entirety.
   Section R801.3 Roof Drainage. Amend by adding the following section
R801.3.1.
   Section R801.3.1 Gutters And Downspouts. All structures over one hundred
fifty (150) square feet in area shall be provided with gutters and downspouts
along all roof edges located parallel to the grade below unless omission is
specifically permitted by the building official. Downspouts must discharge away
from the building in accordance with the approved grading plans, and the
discharge shall not cause a nuisance or damage to neighboring properties.
   Exception: Drainage from accessory buildings must discharge on a splash
block.
   Section R803.2.2Allowable spans. Delete in its entirety and add the
following section.
   Section R803.2.2 The maximum allowable spans for wood structural panel roof
sheathing shall not exceed the values set forth in Table R503.2.1.1(1) or APA
E30. But in no case shall the sheathing be less than ½" nominal in thickness.
   Section R1004 Factory-Built Fireplaces. Amend by adding the following new
section R1005.9:
      Section R1004.5 Fireplace Chimney Enclosures. All exposed exterior
chimney sections, shall be enclosed in a chimney chase which provides for
proper clearances per manufacturer's requirements and is constructed of masonry
or approved materials consistent with the construction of the existing
structure.
   Section M1401 General. Amend by adding the following section M1401.6:
      Section M1401.6 Solid Fuel-Burning Heaters. Solid fuel- burning heaters
are prohibited.
   Section M1601.1.1 Above-Ground Duct Systems. Amend by adding the following
additional language:
      8.   On all residential developments, flexible metallic air ducts may be
used only where practical difficulties are encountered, subject to review and
approval by the building official prior to installation. In other use groups,
the maximum length shall not exceed fourteen feet (14').
   Section G2414.1 General. Amend by adding the following new section
G2414.1.1:
      Section G2414.1.1 Interior Fuel Gas Piping Materials. All interior gas
supply and distribution piping shall be black iron.
   Section G2445.2 Prohibited Use. Amend by adding the following section
G2445.2.1:
      Section G2445.2.1 Approval. Unvented appliances, including unvented
fireplaces, shall be allowed only by special permission of the building
official.
   Section E3406.3 Minimum Size Of Conductors. Delete in its entirety and in
lieu thereof substitute the following new section E3406.3:
      Section E3406.3 Minimum Size Of Conductors. The minimum size of
conductors for feeders and branch circuits shall be no. 14 copper. All
conductors used for feeders, branch circuits and service entrance conductors
must be copper.
   Section E3602.1 Ampacity Of Ungrounded Conductors. Delete in its entirety
and in lieu thereof substitute the following new section E3602.1:
      Section E3602.1 Minimum Size Of Residential Service.
      - two hundred (200) amp, thirty (30) circuit panel, for new construction,
no. 3/0 AWG minimum conductor size.
   Section E3603.2 Ungrounded Service Connectors For Accessory Buildings And
Structures. Delete in its entirety.
   Section E3703 Required Branch Circuits. Amend by adding the following
section E3703.8:
      Section E3703.8 Branch Circuits For Additional Equipment. The following
additional separate, individual branch circuits shall be required as needed:
      1.   Central air conditioning system.
      2.   Electric range.
         a.   Free standing ranges, wired in accordance with this code, but not
less than two (2) number 6 and one (1) number 8 minimum size copper conductors.
         b.   Built-in counter top and oven units, wired in accordance with
this code, but not less than three number 10 (minimum) copper conductors.
      3.   Built-in microwave oven.
      4.   Through wall air conditioners and heating units.
      5.   Motors of one-half (1/2) horsepower or larger.
      6.   Electric water heaters.
      7.   Electric dryers.
      8.   Sump pump.
      9.   Sanitary ejector pump.
      10.   Central vacuum system.
   Section E3704.2 Minimum Feeder Conductor Size. Delete in its entirety.
   Section E3802 Above-Ground Installation Requirements. Delete in its entirety
and in lieu thereof substitute the following new section E3802:
      Section E3802 Aboveground Installation Requirements. For all new
construction, wiring shall be installed in rigid metallic pipe or tubing.
Surface metal raceways may be used for lighting purposes only. Where flexible
connections are necessary, a separate ground wire shall be pulled in all
flexible conduit. Armored cable (type AC) such as BX shall not be used,
including garage and/or other accessory buildings. All raceway joints shall be
made tight and shall provide a continuous electrical circuit for grounding
purposes.
   Section E3904.7 Air Handling - Stud Cavity And Joist Spaces. Delete in its
entirety. Section E3905.3 Nonmetallic Boxes. Delete in its entirety.
(Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2017-51, 9-21-2017; Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-
2023)
ARTICLE D. NONRESIDENTIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
8-1D-1: Code Adopted
8-1D-2: Amendments To Code
8-1D-3: Automatic Fire Suppression Systems
8-1D-4: Public Safety Wireless Communication Networks
8-1D-1: CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out herein governing the
construction of all nonresidential and multi-family structures, that certain
Code known as the International Building Code, 2021, second printing, as
prepared and published by the International Code Council, Inc., together with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set forth, one (1)
copy of which has been for a period of more than thirty (30) days prior to the
effective date hereof and now is on file in the Office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1D-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes are hereby made to
the International Building Code, 2021, second printing:
   A.   Amendments:
   Section 101.1 Title. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 101.4 Amend by adding the following new section 101.4.8:
      Section 101.4.8 Electrical. All references within this code to the ICC
electrical code shall be changed to read, "The National Electrical Code/2020,
prepared and published by the National Fire Protection Association, Inc.". The
provisions of the national electrical code shall apply to the installation,
alteration, repair and replacement of electrical systems, including equipment,
appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances thereto.
   Section 101.4.3 Plumbing. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute with the following new section 101.4.3 Plumbing:
      Section 101.4.3 Plumbing. All references within this code to the
international plumbing code shall be changed to read, "The Illinois Plumbing
Code/as currently adopted, prepared and published by the state of Illinois
department of public health". The provisions of the Illinois Plumbing Code
shall apply to the installation, alteration, repair and replacement of plumbing
systems, including appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances thereto.
   Section 104.11 Alternative materials, designed and methods of construction
and equipment. Amend by adding the following new item number 3:
      3.   [in addition to No.'s 1 and 2] Copies of the system design from
Underwriters Laboratories (UL) or other approved, independent testing agency
shall be submitted to the village, or be made a part of the construction plans
submitted to the village, for all required fire-resistance-rated assemblies and
firestop systems.
   Section 105 PERMITS. Amended by adding the following new section 105.1.1
Workmanship:
      Section 105.1.1 Workmanship. Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or
installations which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of
this code shall be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed
in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
   Section 105.2 Work exempt from permit. Delete in its entirety. Section 105.5
Expiration. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 111.2 Certificate issued. Delete in its entirety. Section 113 Board
of appeals. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 306.3 Factory industrial F-2 low-hazard occupancy. Amend by adding
the following new section 306.3.1 Classification:
      Section 306.3.1 Classification to F-1 moderate-hazard occupancy. The
designation "group F-2" shall be deleted. All factory industrial uses and
occupancies classified as group F-2 shall be classified as group F-1.
Requirements of this code specified for factory industrial group F-1 shall
apply to all factory industrial use and occupancies.
   Section 311.3 Low-hazard storage, group S-2. Amend by adding the following
new section 311.3.1 Classification to moderate-hazard storage, Group S-1:
      Section 311.3.1 Classification to moderate-hazard storage, Group S-1. The
designation "group S-2" shall be deleted. All storage uses and occupancies
classified as group S-2 shall be classified as group S-1. Requirements of this
code for storage group S-1 shall apply to all storage use and occupancies.
   Section 403.3 Automatic Sprinkler System. Delete exception in its entirety.
   Section 406.3.2.1 Dwelling unit separation. Delete in its entirety and in
lieu thereof substitute with the following new section 406.3.2.1 Dwelling unit
separation:
      Section 406.3.2.1 Dwelling unit separation. The private garage shall be
separated from the dwelling unit and its attic area by a minimum 1-hour rated
fire barrier using minimum five-eighths inch (5/8") Type X or equivalent gypsum
wallboard on all walls and ceilings. Door openings between a private garage and
a dwelling unit shall be equipped with either solid wood doors or solid or
honeycomb core steel doors not less than 1-3/8 inches in thickness, or doors in
compliance with Section 716.2.2.1 with a fire protection rating of not less
than 20 minutes. Doors shall be self-closing and self-latching. Openings from a
private garage directly into a room used for sleeping purposes shall not be
permitted.
   Section 406.3.2.2 Ducts. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute with the following new section 406.3.2.2 Ducts:
      406.3.2.2 Ducts. Ducts in a private garage and ducts penetrating the
walls or ceilings separating the dwelling unit from the garage shall be
encapsulated in construction equal to that of those walls and ceilings, and
shall have no openings into the garage.
   Section 406.5.3 Mixed occupancies and uses. Delete in its entirety and in
lieu thereof substitute with the following new section 406.5.3 Mixed
occupancies and uses:
      Section 406.5.3 Mixed occupancies and uses. Parking garages shall be
separated from other occupancies and uses in accordance with section 302.1, but
in no case shall the separation be less than a 1-hour rated fire barrier.
   Section 503.1 General. Delete in its entirety (not inclusive of subsections
503.1.1, 503.1.2, 503.1.3 and 503.1.4) and in lieu thereof substitute with the
following new Section 503.1 General:
      Section 503.1 General. The height and area for buildings of different
construction types shall be governed by the intended use of the building, and
shall not exceed the limits in Table 504.3 and Table 506.2 except as modified
hereafter. Each part of a building included within the exterior walls or the
exterior walls and fire walls where provided shall be permitted to be a
separate building.
      Exceptions:
      1.   Type III, VA and VB construction is prohibited for all new
construction other than use group R-3 structures.
      2.   Existing buildings of type 5 construction may be converted to use
group B only, provided the structure does not exceed two (2) stories in height,
and the gross floor area does not exceed twenty-two hundred (2,200) square
feet. Such buildings shall be equipped with an approved fire alarm system
interconnected to an approved location providing 24-hour supervision of alarm
and system trouble, and shall comply with the current Illinois Accessibility
Code as if new construction.
   Section 505.2.3 Openness. Delete exception 5 in its entirety. Section 507.3
Nonsprinklered, one story. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 507.4 Sprinklered, one story. Delete exception 1 in its entirety.
Section 507.5 Two-story buildings. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 509.4 Separation and protection. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute with the following new section 509.4 Separation and
protection:
      Section 509.4 Separation and protection. All rooms and areas listed under
the column "Separation and/or protection" in Table 509.1 shall require the
installation of the fire-resistance-rated separation indicated, and shall be
protected with an approved fire suppression system.
   Section 602.3 Type III. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute with the following new section 602.3 Type III:
      Section 602.3 Type III. Type III construction is that type of
construction in which the exterior walls are of noncombustible materials and
the interior building elements are of any material permitted by this code.
Fire-retardant-treated wood framing complying with section 2303.2 shall be
permitted within exterior wall assemblies with a 2-hour rating or less. Type
III construction shall be permitted for use group R-3 structures only.
   Section 602.5 Type V. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof substitute
with the following new section 602.5 Type V:
      Section 602.5 Type V. Type V construction is that type of construction in
which the structural elements, exterior walls, and interior walls are of any
materials permitted by this code. Type V construction shall be permitted for
use group R-3 structures only.
   Section 708.4.2 Fireblocks and draftstops in combustible construction.
Delete exception no. 3, no. 4 and no. 5 in their entirety.
   Section 721 PRESCRIPTIVE FIRE RESISTANCE. Delete in its entirety. Section
722 CALCULATED FIRE RESISTANCE. Delete in its entirety. Section 903.2 Where
required. Delete exception in its entirety.
   Section 903.2.1 Group A. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute with the following new section 903.2.1 Group A:
      Section 903.2.1 Group A. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided
throughout all buildings containing a group A occupancy.
      Section 903.2.1.1 Group A-1. Delete in its entirety.
      Section 903.2.1.2 Group A-2. Delete in its entirety.
      Section 903.2.1.3 Group A-3. Delete in its entirety.
      Section 903.2.1.4 Group A-4. Delete in its entirety.
      Section 903.2.1.5 Group A-5. Delete in its entirety.
      Section 903.2.1.6 Assembly occupancies on roofs.
      Section 903.2.1.7 Multiple fire areas. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 903.2.2 Ambulatory care facilities. Amend section by deleting the
Exception.
   Section 903.2.3 Group E. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute with the following new section 903.2.3 Group E:
      Section 903.2.3 Group E. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided
throughout all buildings containing a group E occupancy.
   Section 903.2.4 Group F-1. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute with the following new section 903.2.4 Group F:
      Section 903.2.4 Group F. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided
throughout all buildings containing a group F occupancy.
   Section 903.2.4.1 Woodworking Operations. Delete in its entirety. Section
903.2.4.2 Group F-1 Distilled spirits or wine. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 903.2.4.3 Group F-1 Upholstered furniture and mattresses. Delete in
its entirety.
   Section 903.2.5.1 General. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute with the following new section 903.2.5.1 General:
      Section 903.2.5.1 General. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
provided throughout all buildings containing a group H occupancy.
   Section 903.2.7 Group M. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute with the following new section 903.2.7 Group M:
      Section 903.2.7 Group M. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided
throughout all buildings containing a group M occupancy. The automatic
sprinkler system must be designed for a storage capacity equal in height to the
bottom of the bar joists or other roof support, with a density coverage in
accordance with NFPA 231C.
   Section 903.2.7.2 Group M Upholstered furniture and mattresses. Delete in
its entirety.
   Section 903.2.9 Group S-1. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute with the following new section 903.2.9 Group S-1:
      Section 903.2.9 Group S-1. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
provided throughout all buildings containing a group S-1 occupancy.
   Section 903.2.9.1 Repair Garages. Delete in its entirety. Section 903.2.9.2
Bulk Storage Of Tires. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 903.2.9.3 Group S-1 Distilled spirits or wine. Delete in its
entirety.
   Section 903.2.9.4 Group S-1 Upholstered furniture and mattresses. Delete in
its entirety.
   Section 903.2.10 Group S-2. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute with the following new section 903.2.10 Group S-2:
      Section 903.2.10 Group S-2. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
provided throughout all buildings containing a group S-2 occupancy.
   Section 903.2.10.1 Commercial Parking Garages. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 903.2.11 Specific building areas and hazards. Delete in its entirety
and in lieu thereof substitute with the following new section 903.2.11 Specific
building areas and hazards:
      Section 903.2.11 Specific building areas and hazards. An automatic
sprinkler system shall be installed for building design or hazards and provided
throughout all buildings containing any Use Group other than U. For Use Group
R-3 refer to the IRC section 313.
   Section 903.2.11.1 Stories without openings. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 903.2.11.1.1 Opening dimensions and access. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 903.2.11.1.2 Openings on one side only. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 903.2.11.1.3 Basements. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 903.2.11.3 Buildings over 55 feet in height. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 903.3 Installation requirements. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute with the following new section 903.3 Installation
requirements:
      Section 903.3 Installation requirements. Automatic sprinkler systems
shall be designed and installed in accordance with sections 903.3.1 through
903.3.8, except that flexible sprinkler pipe or tubing shall be prohibited.
   Section 903.3.1.1.1 Exempt Locations. Delete subsection 3 of section
903.3.1.1.1 in its entirety and in lieu thereof substitute with the following
new subsection 3:
      3.   Generator and transformer rooms separated from the remainder of the
building by walls and floor/ceiling assemblies or roof/ceiling assemblies
having a fire-resistance rating of not less than 2 hours, when approved in
writing by the Building Official.
   Section 903.3.1.1.1 Exempt Locations. Delete subsection 4 of section
903.3.1.1.1 in its entirety and in lieu thereof substitute with the following
new subsection 4:
      4.   In rooms or areas that are of noncombustible construction with
wholly non-combustible contents when approved in writing by the Building
Official.
   Section 903.1.1.2 Bathrooms. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute with the following new section 903.1.1.2 Bathrooms:
      Section 903.1.1.2 Bathrooms. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
provided in all bathrooms in Group R Occupancies.
   Section 903.4.1 Monitoring. Delete exception in its entirety.
   Section 905.3 Required installations. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute with the following new section 905.3 Required installations:
      Section 905.3 Required installations. Class I standpipe systems shall be
provided in new buildings and structures in accordance with this section. All
references herein to class II and class III standpipe systems shall be deleted
and in lieu thereof shall substitute the words "class I standpipe system(s)".
Standpipe systems shall be installed where required by sections 905.3.1 through
905.3.8 and in the locations indicated in sections 905.4, 905.5 and 905.6 and
where required by the International Fire Code. Standpipe systems are permitted
to be combined with automatic sprinkler systems.
      Exception: Standpipe systems are not required in group R-3 occupancies as
applicable in section 101.2
   Section 905.3.1 Building height. Delete exceptions in their entirety.
   Section 905.3.1 Building height. Amend by adding the following new section
905.3.1.1 Building Area:
      Section 905.3.1.1 Building area. Class I standpipe systems shall be
installed in all buildings where any portion of the building's interior area is
more than one hundred fifty feet (150'-0") of travel vertically and
horizontally from the nearest point of fire district vehicle access.
   Section 905.8 Dry standpipes. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 907.1 General. Amend by adding the following new section 907.1.4
Supervision:
      Section 907.1. 4 Supervision. Required automatic detection and alarm
systems shall be directly connected to an approved UL fire alarm receiving
location providing twenty-four (24) hour supervision of alarm and system
trouble.
   Section 907.1 General. Amend by adding the following new section 907.1.5
Acceptance testing:
      Section 907.1.5 Acceptance testing. Testing of Alarm Systems shall be
done in accordance with NFPA 72, and a Certificate of Completion shall be
provided to the Fire Code Official.
   Section 907.1 General. Amend by adding the following new section 907.1.6
Power Source:
      Section 907.1.6 Power Source. All backup emergency power supplies for
fire alarm systems or devices shall be capable of providing full operation of
the system or device for a minimum of sixty (60) hours upon loss of primary
power.
   Section 907.2 Where required-new buildings and structures. Delete in its
entirety and in lieu thereof substitute the following new section 907.2 Where
required-new buildings and structures:
      Section 907.2 Where required-new buildings and structures. An approved
automatic fire alarm system shall be provided in all new buildings, other than
buildings of group U. For use group R-3 refer to section 313 of the IRC as
amended. References herein to the contrary shall be deleted. An approved manual
fire alarm system and smoke detection system shall be provided in accordance
with sections 907.2.1 through 907.2.23. Where automatic sprinkler protection
installed in accordance with section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 is provided and
connected to the building fire alarm system, automatic heat detection required
by this section shall not be required.
      An approved automatic fire detection system shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of this code and NFPA 72. Devices, combinations
of devices, appliances and equipment shall comply with section 907.1.2. The
automatic fire detectors shall be smoke detectors, except that an approved
alternative type of detector shall be installed in spaces such as boiler rooms
where, during normal operation, products of combustion are present in
sufficient quantity to actuate a smoke detector. In all cases, rate-of-rise
type heat detectors are prohibited for use in guest rooms and dwelling units.
      All wiring in non-accessible areas shall be installed in electrical
metallic tubing but may be run exposed in accessible areas over eight feet (8')
above finished floor such as, but not limited to, spaces above dropped
ceilings, attic spaces, and crawl spaces; all said tubing must be properly
fastened.
   Section 907.2.1 Group A. Delete exception in its entirety.
   Section 907.2.2 Group B. Delete exception in its entirety.
   Section 907.2.3 Group E. Delete exceptions in their entirety.
   Section 907.2.4 Group F. Delete exception in its entirety.
   Section 907.2.7 Group M. Delete exceptions in their entirety.
   Section 907.2.8 Group R-1. Amend by adding the following new section
907.2.8.4 Means of egress:
      Section 907.2.8.4 Means of egress. Automatic smoke detectors, connected
directly to the fire alarm system, shall be installed in all exit stairways,
exit accessways and common area means of egress corridors.
   Section 907.2.8.1 Manual Fire Alarm System. Delete exceptions in their
entirety.
   Section 907.2.8.2 Automatic Smoke Detection System. Amend by adding the
following new section 907.2.8.2.1 Fixed temperature heat detector:
      Section 907.2.8.2.1 Fixed temperature heat detector. For existing
nonsprinklered, converted, remodeled or retrofit multifamily dwellings, a
minimum of one fixed temperature heat detector is required in the immediate
vicinity of all sleeping areas in each dwelling unit. Said fixed temperature
heat detector shall be directly connected to the automatic fire alarm system.
In all such cases, rate-of-rise heat detectors are prohibited.
   Section 907.2.9 Group R-2. Delete exceptions no. 1 and 2 in their entirety.
   Section 907.2.9 Group R-2. Amend by adding the following new section
907.2.9.4 Means of egress:
      Section 907.2.9.4 Means of egress. Automatic smoke detectors, connected
directly to the fire alarm system, shall be installed in all exit stairways,
exit accessways and common area means of egress corridors.
   Section 907.6.4 Zones. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof substitute
the following new section 907.6.4 Zones:
      Section 907.6.4 Zones. Each floor shall be zoned separately, and a zone
shall not exceed twenty two thousand five hundred (22,500) square feet in area.
The length of any zone shall not exceed three hundred feet (300') in any
direction, unless otherwise approved by the fire code official.
         907.6.4.2 High-Rise Buildings. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute the following new section 907.6.4.2 All buildings:
      Section 907.6.4.2 All buildings. A separate zone by floor shall be
provided for all of the following types of alarm-initiating devices where
provided:
      1.   Detection devices.
      2.   Sprinkler water-flow devices.
      3.   Manual fire alarm boxes.
      4.   Devices in each tenant space of a multi-tenant occupancy.
      5.   Other approved types of automatic fire protection systems.
   Section 1006.2.1 Egress based on occupant load and common path of egress
travel distance. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof substitute with the
following new section 1006.2.1 Egress based on occupant load and common path of
egress travel distance:
      1006.2.1 Egress based on occupant load and common path of egress travel
distance. Two exits or exit access doorways from any space shall be provided
where the design occupant load or the common path of egress travel distance
exceeds the values listed in Table 1006.2.1, if the space exceeds 2,000 Sq. Ft.
in gross area, or for all Use Group M spaces. The cumulative occupant load from
adjacent rooms, areas or spaces shall be determined in accordance with Section
1004.2.
   Table 1006.2.1 SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY. Amend the table
to remove the M Use Group, and, any value of more than twenty (20) in column:
"MAXIMUM OCCUPANT LOAD OF SPACE" shall be reduced to twenty (20).
   Section 1006.2.2 Egress based on use. Amend by adding the following new
section 1006.2.2.7 Markings:
      Section 1006.2.2.7 Markings. Where a required means of egress passes
through an area that could be blocked by storage of materials and/or
merchandise, the floor area of the required means of egress shall be marked by
diagonal high visibility yellow striping of not less than three inches (3") in
width. The striping shall delineate a means of egress width of not less than
forty-four inches (44").
   Section 1008.3.3 Rooms and spaces. Amend by adding a number 6, 7 and 8.
      6.   Delete number 5.
      7.   All bathrooms.
      8.   Interior exit discharge elements, as permitted in section 1024.1, in
buildings which require two or more means of egress, have an occupant load
greater than three (3) occupants or which have an area greater than three
hundred (300) square feet.
   Section 1009 Accessible means of egress. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 1010.1.2.1 Direction of swing. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute with the following new section 1010.1.2.1 Direction of
swing.
   Section 1010.1.2.1 Direction of swing. Side-hinged swinging doors, pivoted
doors and balanced doors shall swing in the direction of travel where more than
one exit or exit doorway is required, or a Group H occupancy.
   Section 1013.1 Where Required. Delete exception 2 in its entirety.
   Section 1015.2 Where Required. Amend by deleting all reference to the
language "30 inches" contained therein on line 4 and in lieu thereof the
following language shall be substituted:
      "24 inches"
   Section 1016.2 Egress through intervening spaces. Amend section to add the
following sentence:
      “All use groups S, F, and H occupancies are considered to be a higher
hazard than all other use groups as defined by this code and cannot be used as
an egress.”
   Section 1017.2 Amend by adding the following Exception to section 1017.2.2:
      Section 1017.2.2 Groups F-1 and S-1 Increase Exception: The maximum exit
access travel distance may be increased to 400 feet for buildings with a
ceiling height of less than 24 ft., where the portion of the building
classified as Group F-1 or S-1 is equipped with an Early Suppression Fast
Response (ESFR) fire sprinkler system and Mechanical Smoke Exhaust as outlined
and installed in accordance with Chapter 9 Section 910.4 of the 2015
International Fire Code, as modified by Appendix A of this Chapter. For one
story buildings ceiling height of 24 ft. or greater height reference Chapter 10
Section 1017.2.2 of the 2021 International Fire Code. A smoke study
commissioned and paid for by the building owner may be submitted for approval
to allow a 400-foot travel distance for buildings less than 24 feet in height.
The smoke study shall prove favorably that the smoke will not go below the six-
foot interface level during the travel time established by the study. The study
shall include six fire scenarios and include all documentations and
calculations to substantiate the time and distance.
   Section 1301.1.1 Criteria. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute with the following new section 1301.1.1 Criteria:
      Section 1301.1.1 Criteria. Buildings shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the current State of Illinois Adopted Energy Code.
   Section 1608.2 Ground Snow Loads. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute with the following new section 1608.2:
      Section 1608.2 Ground Snow Load. The ground snow load to be used in
determining the design snow load for roofs shall be thirty (30) pounds per
square foot.
   Section 1807.1.4 Permanent wood foundation systems. Delete in its entirety.
   Table 1809.7 PRESCRIPTIVE FOOTINGS SUPPORTING WALLS OF LIGHT-FRAME
CONSTRUCTION. Amend the table; any value of less than eight (8) in column
entitled: "THICKNESS OF FOOTING (inches)", shall be increased to eight (8).
   Section 1809.8 Plain Concrete Footings. Delete exception in its entirety.
Section 1809.12 Timber Footings. Delete in its entirety.
   Chapter 29 Plumbing Systems. Delete in its entirety.
   B.   Tenant Separation: Minimum required fire rating for tenant separation
assemblies is one (1) hour. (See IBC table 508.4 for fire resistant
requirements for mixed use separations.) In unlimited area buildings, tenant
spaces shall be separated by a minimum of a two (2) hour assembly.
   C.   Groups R-1 and R-2; Additional Requirements: The following additional
requirements apply to structures of IBC Use Groups R-1 and R-2:
      1.   Firewall assemblies shall have a minimum of a three (3) hour rating.
Firewall assemblies may be used to separate up to a maximum of three (3)
buildings.
      2.   Dwelling units and guestrooms shall have a minimum fire separation
of one (1) hour. Separation shall be a fire barrier.
      3.   Building storage rooms, meeting rooms and attached parking garages
shall have a minimum fire separation of two (2) hours. Separation shall be a
fire barrier.
      4.   Mechanical ventilation systems for attached parking garages shall be
independent from the building ventilation system.
   D.   Group R-3; Additional Requirements: The following additional
requirements apply to structures of IBC Use Group R-3:
      1.   In side by side construction, firewall assemblies may be used to
separate up to a maximum of three (3) buildings.
      2.   Over and under construction shall be limited to a maximum of four
(4) dwelling units per building.
      3.   Dwelling units shall have a minimum vertical fire separation of a
two (2) hour fire barrier. The vertical fire separation must extend to the roof
deck, and the roof sheathing must be fire retardant treated on either side for
a minimum distance of four feet (4'). The treated sheathing must extend at
least to the next farthest rafter on alternating sheets. Roof covering
materials shall be Class A or Class B.
      4.   Construction and insulation requirements shall comply with the
provisions set forth in article C of this chapter. Automatic fire detection
system requirements shall comply with the provisions set forth in article I of
this chapter. The height and area limitations set forth in Sections 504 and 506
of the International Building Code as adopted, and the fire resistance rating
of structural elements set forth in Tables 601 and 705.5 of the International
Building Code as adopted, and elsewhere in this Code, shall be employed in the
design of all buildings of Use Group R-3.
   E.   Unlimited Area Buildings; Additional Requirements: The following
additional requirements apply to unlimited area buildings:
      1.   Office spaces two thousand (2,000) square feet and larger in
buildings of Use Groups S and F shall be separated from the warehouse area with
a minimum floor to roof deck fire barrier of no less than one (1) hour.
      2.   Perimeter doors shall be installed in all new unlimited area
buildings at intervals not to exceed one hundred fifty feet (150'). Alternate
methods for positive smoke ventilation and Fire department entry shall be
subject to the approval of the Building Official.
   F.   Buildings Exceeding Four Thousand (4,000) Square Feet: On all buildings
exceeding four thousand (4,000) square feet, roof coverings shall be a minimum
of class A or B.
   G.   Type 3 And Type 5 Construction; Additional Requirements: The following
additional requirements apply to buildings of type 3 and type 5 construction:
      1.   Wooden structural support columns for balconies shall be no less
than six inch by six inch (6" x 6") nominal lumber when over six feet (6') in
height.
      2.   Open frame wood trusses used in floor construction must be sheathed
on the underside and shall be divided into areas no greater than five hundred
(500) square feet by draft stopping parallel to the main framing members. Draft
stopping materials shall not be less than one-half inch (1/2") gypsum board,
three-eighths inch (3/8") plywood or other approved materials adequately
supported.
      3.   Each new stair, platform, and landing used in buildings three (3) or
more stories in height shall be of noncombustible materials throughout.
   H.   Elevator Enclosures: Elevator and hoistway enclosures shall be
constructed of concrete or masonry materials providing a fire resistance rating
of not less than two (2) hours.
   I.   Fence And Dumpster Support Posts: Fence and dumpster enclosure support
posts shall be installed to a minimum depth of forty-two inches (42"). (Ord.
2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2017-51, 9-21-2017; Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1D-3: AUTOMATIC FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS:
An automatic fire suppression system shall be installed and maintained in full
operating condition, as specified in the International Building Code referenced
above, and throughout the entire building or structure as modified below:
   A.   In all existing construction in which:
      1.   The cost of remodeling or reconstruction exceeds twenty five percent
(25%) of the value of the building or structure in any five (5) year period;
      2.   The height of the building or structure is enlarged; or
      3.   The floor area of the building or structure is enlarged in excess of
five hundred (500) square feet. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36,
11-2-2023)
8-1D-4: PUBLIC SAFETY WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to promote, protect and
safeguard the public safety, health and welfare of the citizens of Woodridge by
ensuring the uninterrupted operation of the village's wireless communication
networks used for public safety, police and fire, law enforcement, and other
emergency related activities.
   B.   Definitions: For this section, the following definitions shall apply:
   ADEQUATE RADIO COVERAGE: A minimum of ninety percent (90%) of each floor of
a building shall be able to receive a minimum signal strength of one microvolt
when transmitted from village communication networks and specifically also to
accommodate village two-way wireless communications from such locations within
a building to a location outside of said building; the frequency range must be
supportable for village police department communications and shall be at least
from seven hundred sixty four (764) MHz to eight hundred sixty nine (869) MHz,
and one hundred fifty (150) MHz to one hundred fifty five (155) MHz, or as
otherwise required by the chief of police.
   BUILDING: Any multi-family residential or nonresidential structure, or any
part thereof, including underground floors.
   C.   Frequency and level specifications: Except as otherwise provided, no
person shall erect, construct or modify any building or cause the same to be
done which fails to support adequate radio coverage.
   D.   Owner's responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of any building
owner who currently holds a certificate of occupancy or allows the building to
be used for any purpose other than construction to be in compliance with this
section.
   E.   Testing Procedures:
      1.   Initial testing and compliance: If a building is believed to fail to
support adequate radio coverage, the building owner shall contact the chief of
police who shall have conducted a test of the building to determine whether or
not the building supports adequate radio coverage, as follows:
         a.   Each floor of the building shall be divided into a grid of
approximately twenty (20) equal grid areas.
         b.   A center spot located approximately in the center of each grid
area will be selected, which, once selected, cannot be changed.
         c.   Portable radios of the type the village police department
utilizes will be "keyed" to verify two-way communications between the center
spot of each grid area and the outside of the building.
         d.   If such communications are verified for a given grid area, that
grid area will be counted as passed, and if not, it will be counted as failed.
         e.   In the event that three (3) or more grid areas fail, the building
will be considered preliminarily failed.
         f.   Upon a preliminary test failure, each floor of the building may
be divided into forty (40) equal grid areas and the test repeated. In the event
that five (5) or more grid areas then fail, the building will have failed the
test.
         g.   If the building fails the test, the building owner shall install
a radio amplifier system in the building as described in subsection F of this
section and then schedule to have the building retested until it is shown to
provide adequate radio coverage. A building with a radio amplifier system will
not be considered in compliance with this section unless, in addition to
providing adequate radio coverage, the building also passes the radio amplifier
system test described in subsections F.1. through F.4. of this section.
      2.   Five (5) year testing: Once a building is shown to support adequate
radio coverage, the building owner shall contact the chief of police to arrange
for a radio coverage test as set forth in subsection E.1. of this section at
least once every five (5) years to ensure that the building continues to comply
with this section. However, if the building is modified, expanded, or otherwise
structurally altered, or if the building owner believes that the building may
not be in compliance, the building owner shall contact the chief of police at
that time to arrange for such test to be conducted.
   F.   In-building radio amplifier system: If any building fails to support
adequate radio coverage, or whenever a building without an in-building radio
amplifier system fails to pass the test set forth in this section, then its
owner shall, within ninety (90) days of failing the test, provide to the chief
of police a plan illustrating how the building will be modified to support
adequate radio coverage by installing or modifying a radio amplifier system
within the building. Review and approval of the plan may be extended by the
Chief of Police. The building owner shall enact the plan within one year after
its approval and the building shall be retested upon completion of such
installation.
   The radio amplifier system may include any of the following to achieve the
required adequate radio coverage: radiating cable system, internal multiple
antenna system with eight hundred (800) MHz and one hundred fifty (150) MHz
amplification system, or any combination thereof. If any part of the installed
system contains an electrically powered component, the system shall be capable
of operating on an independent battery and/or generator system for a period of
at least two (2) hours without external power input. The battery system shall
automatically charge in the presence of an external power input.
   When a radio amplifier system is installed, the building owner shall cause a
technician in possession of a current FCC license, or a technician certified by
the Associated Public-Safety Communications Officials International (APCO), to
test all active components of the system, including, but not limited to,
amplifiers, power supplies and backup batteries, initially in conjunction with
a test to establish that the building supports adequate radio coverage, and
subsequently at least once every twelve (12) months thereafter, as follows:
      1.   Amplifiers shall be tested and gain levels measured upon initial
installation and acceptance; gain levels shall be measured as part of
subsequent tests to ensure that they remain the same as that found upon initial
installation and acceptance.
      2.   Backup batteries and power supplies shall be tested under load for a
period of one hour to verify that they will properly operate during an actual
power outage. If within the one hour test period, in the opinion of the testing
technician, the battery exhibits symptoms of failure, the test shall be
extended for additional one hour periods until the testing technician confirms
the integrity of the battery.
      3.   All other active components shall be checked to determine that they
are operating within the manufacturer's specifications for the intended
purpose.
      4.   The technician who performed the test shall prepare a written report
documenting the test findings and all measurements. The building owner shall
provide to the chief of police a copy of the test findings within ten (10) days
of the completion of testing and shall maintain a copy on file within the
building.
   The building owner shall be responsible for all maintenance and repair of
any system installed to comply with this section. Every building owner with a
system installed to comply with this section shall provide to the chief of
police the following contact information:
      a.   The name, address, and telephone number of the maintenance
contractor who will supply a twenty-four (24) hour, seven (7) day emergency
response to the building within two (2) hours after notification by either the
village or the building owner in order to repair the in-building system; and
      b.   The name, address, and telephone number of the primary contact
personnel for the building owner.
   G.   Routine inspection upon notice: Police department personnel, at any
time after providing reasonable notice to the building owner or his
representative, shall have the right to enter onto the property and into the
building to conduct a radio coverage test to confirm compliance with this
section. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
ARTICLE E. ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
8-1E-1: Code Adopted
8-1E-2: Amendments To Code
8-1E-3: Registration Of Electrical Contractors
8-1E-4: General Provisions
8-1E-5: Branch Circuits Required
8-1E-6: Electrical Conductors
8-1E-7: Raceways Or Conduits
8-1E-8: Outlets Required
8-1E-9: Branch Circuit Voltage Limitations
8-1E-10: Wiring Methods
8-1E-11: Signs
8-1E-12: Service Entrance
8-1E-1: CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out herein that certain
code known as the National Electrical Code, 2020 edition (NFPA 70-2020), as
prepared and published by the National Fire Protection Association, Inc.,
together with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set
forth, one copy of which has been for a period of more than thirty (30) days
prior to the effective date hereof and now is on file in the office of the
village clerk. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1E-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes are hereby made to
the National Electrical Code, 2020 edition (NFPA 70-2020):
   A.   Any reference in the National Electrical Code, 2020 edition (NFPA 70-
2020), to the "authority having jurisdiction" shall mean the building official.
   B.   The following articles of the National Electrical Code, 2020 edition
(NFPA 70-2020), are hereby amended as follows:
   Article 110.3 Examination, Identification, Installation And Use Of
Equipment. Amend by adding new article 110.3(C):
      Article 110.3(C) Prefabricated And Modular Electrical Rooms, Cabinets And
Equipment. All electrical equipment, including switchboards, panelboards,
transformers and motor control centers, mounted or installed by a manufacturer
within a room or cabinet along with other electrical equipment, and where such
room or cabinet is intended to be installed as a prefabricated or modular unit,
shall comply with the requirements of title 8, chapter 1, article E, of the
village code.
   Article 210.6(C) 277 Volts To Ground. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute the following new article 210.6(C):
      Article 210.6(C) 277 Volts To Ground. Circuits exceeding one hundred and
twenty volts (120 V), nominal, between conductors and not exceeding two hundred
and seventy-seven volts (277 V), nominal, to ground shall be permitted to
supply the following fixtures and equipment:
      1.   Listed electric-discharge or listed light-emitting diode type
luminaires (lighting fixtures);
      2.   Listed incandescent luminaires (lighting fixtures), where supplied
at one hundred and twenty volts (120 V) or less from the output of a step-down
autotransformer that is an integral component of the luminaire (fixture) and
the outer shell terminal is electrically connected to a grounded conductor of
the branch circuit;
      3.   Luminaires (lighting fixtures) equipped with mogul-base screw shell
lampholders;
      4.   Lampholders, other than screw shell type, applied within their
voltage ratings;
      5.   Auxiliary equipment of electric-discharge lamps; and
      6.    Cord-and-plug-connected or permanently connected utilization
equipment. In no case shall such light fixtures be mounted less than eight feet
(8') above finished floor. Such circuits shall be switched at a panel board,
using type SWD breakers, or at a low-voltage relay switch.
   Article 210.21(B) Receptacles. Amend by adding the following new subsection
210.21(B)(5):
   Article 210.21(B)(5) Only twenty (20) amp receptacles shall be used on
twenty (20) amp circuits supplying cord connected disposals and dishwashers in
residential kitchens.
   Article 250.52(A)(8) Other Local Metal Underground Systems Or Structures.
Delete in its entirety.
   Article 250.53(D)(2) Supplemental Electrode Required. Delete in its entirety
and in lieu thereof substitute the following new article 250.53(D)(2):
      Article 250.53(D)(2) Supplemental Electrode Required. A metal underground
water pipe shall be supplemented by an additional electrode of a type specified
in sections 250.52(A)(2) through (A)(7). Where the supplemental electrode is a
made electrode of the rod, pipe, or plate type, it shall comply with section
250.56. The supplemental electrode shall be permitted to be bonded to the
grounding electrode conductor or the grounded service-entrance conductor.
   Article 250.64(B) Grounding Electrode Conductor. Delete in its entirety and
in lieu thereof substitute with the following new article 250.64(B):
      Article 250.64(B) Grounding Electrode Conductor. The grounding electrode
conductor for the service shall terminate at the street side of the domestic
water service and shall be protected by rigid metal conduit, intermediate metal
conduit, electrical metallic tubing, or approved cable armor. The grounding
electrode shall be copper and the water meter shall be provided with an
adequate jumper. This service ground shall have an identifying tag attached to
the ground clamp.
   Article 250.136(A) Equipment Secured To Grounded Metal Supports. Delete in
its entirety.
   Article 300.1(A) All Wiring Installations. Delete in its entirety and in
lieu thereof substitute with the following new article 300.1(A):
      Article 300.1(A) All Wiring Installations. This article covers wiring
methods for all wiring installations unless modified by other articles. Where
any wiring method or materials permitted by the National Electrical Code, 2020
edition (NFPA 70-2020) shall have been prohibited by title 8, chapter 1,
article E, of the village code, such wiring methods or materials shall be
considered to be prohibited when referred to in any section or provisions of
the National Electrical Code, 2020 edition (NFPA 70-2020).
   Article 300.4 Protection Against Physical Damage. Amend by adding the
following new article 300.4(A)(3):
      Article 300.4(A)(3) Protection Of Wood Members. The drilling, notching
and cutting of wood members shall be in accordance with the building codes
adopted herein.
   Article 300.4 Protection Against Physical Damage. Amend by adding the
following new article 300.4(I):
      Article 300.4(I) Circuits Under Fifty Volts (50 V). All wiring for
circuits under fifty volts (50 V) in non- accessible areas shall be installed
in electrical metallic tubing but may be run exposed in accessible areas such
as, but not limited to, spaces above dropped ceilings, attic spaces, and crawl
spaces; said tubing must be properly fastened. In one and two family detached
dwellings and side-by-side townhomes, this article shall apply only to wiring
of doorbells and low voltage fire alarm systems.
   Article 310.3(B) Conductor Material. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute the following new article 310.3(B):
      Article 310.3(B) Conductor Material. Conductors in this code shall be
composed of copper unless otherwise specified.
   Article 340.10 Uses Permitted. Amend by deleting subarticles 340.10(3),
340.10(4) and 340.10(6) in their entirety.
   Article 352.10 Uses Permitted. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new article 352.10:
      Article 352.10 Uses Permitted. The use of RNC shall be permitted in
accordance with the following:
      1.   Underground usage in exterior locations only, except that RNC shall
not be used for service entrance conductors. All parts of the conduit system
located less than 18" below grade shall be of galvanized rigid metallic conduit
(RMC) or intermediate metal conduit (IMC).
      2.   When approved by the building official, locations subject to severe
corrosive influences as covered in article 300.6 and where subject to chemicals
for which the materials are specifically approved.
   Article 353.10 Uses Permitted. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new article 353.10:
      Article 353.10 Uses Permitted. The use of HDPE conduit shall be permitted
in accordance with the following:
      1.   In conjunction with directional boring equipment.
   Article 356.10 Uses Permitted. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new article 356.10:
      Article 356.10 Uses Permitted. The use of LFNC shall be permitted in
accordance with the following, subject to the review and approval of the
building official:
      1.   Where protection of the contained conductors is required from
corrosive vapors, liquids and solids.
      2.   For use with swimming pool equipment.
   Article 358.10 Uses Permitted. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new article 358.10:
      Article 358.10 Uses Permitted. The use of EMT shall be permitted for both
exposed and concealed work. Exposed work shall not be subject to physical
damage.
   Article 358.12 Uses Not Permitted. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute the following new article 358.12:
      Article 358.12 Uses Not Permitted. EMT shall not be used under the
following conditions:
      1.   Where, during installation or afterward, it will be subject to
physical damage;
      2.   Where installed in wet or damp locations;
      3.   Where installed in concrete, in direct contact with the earth or in
other areas subject to corrosive influences;
      4.   In cinder concrete or cinder fill;
      5.   In any hazardous (classified) location, except as permitted by
articles 502.10, 503.10 or 504.20;
      6.   For the support of luminaires (fixtures) or other equipment except
conduit bodies no larger than the largest trade size of the tubing; or
      7.   Where practicable, dissimilar metals, other than aluminum fittings
and enclosures when used with EMT, in contact anywhere in the system shall be
avoided to eliminate the possibility of galvanic action.
   Article 378.10 Uses Permitted. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new article 378.10:
      Article 378.10 Uses Permitted. The use of nonmetallic wireways shall be
permitted only for the encasement of low voltage wiring, and only in the
following instances:
      1.   Only for exposed work, except as permitted in article 378.10(4);
      2.   Where subject to corrosive environments where identified for the
use;
      3.   In wet locations where listed for the purpose; or
      4.   As extensions to pass transversely through walls if the length
passing through the wall is unbroken; access to the conductors shall be
maintained on both sides of the wall.
   Article 406.3 General Installation Requirements. Amend by adding the
following new article 406.3(G):
      Article 406.3(G) Terminating Wires. Wires shall terminate on the
respective screw terminals. The use of stab-lock connections or terminations is
prohibited.
   Article 410.44 Methods Of Grounding. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute the following new article 410.44:
      Article 410.44 Methods Of Grounding. Fixtures and equipment shall be
considered grounded where mechanically connected to an equipment grounding
conductor as specified in section 250.118 and sized in accordance with section
250.122. Each new parking lot, drive lane, and street lighting pole shall be
grounded by a separate grounding rod as well as an approved grounding conductor
which shall originate in the electrical panelboard that supplies the power for
the lighting pole. The grounding rods shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in
length and five- eighths inch (5/8") in diameter.
      All fixtures must be able to be serviced without dismantling the fixture
hanging equipment.
   Article 605.2(A) Use. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof substitute
the following new article 605.2(A):
      Article 605.2(A) Use. All office partitions or furnishings shall be
hardwired. The use of wiring systems used to connect, or contained within or
installed upon relocatable office partitions or furnishings shall be permitted
only by review and written permission of the building official.
   Article 701.12 General Requirements. Amend by inserting at the end of
article 701.12 the following additional language:
      ..."Emergency battery back-up lighting shall derive their power from the
lighting circuit supplying the fixtures in the same common area. For all
commercial installations, circuit breaker lockouts shall be installed on all
emergency circuits."...
   C.   The following articles of the National Electrical Code, 2020 edition
(NFPA 70-2020), are hereby deleted in their entirety:
   Article 320, entitled "Armored Cable: Type AC";
   Article 324, entitled "Flat Conductor Cable: Type FCC";
   Article 326, entitled "Integrated Gas Spacer Cable: Type IGS";
   Article 330, entitled "Metal-Clad Cable: Type MC";
   Article 334, entitled "Nonmetallic-Sheathed Cable: Types NC, NMC, And NMS";
   Article 336, entitled "Power And Control Tray Cable: Type TC";
   Article 338, entitled "Service-Entrance Cable: Types SE And USE";
   Article 354, entitled "Nonmetallic Underground Conduit With Conductors: Type
NUCC";
   Article 362, entitled "Electrical Nonmetallic Tubing: Type ENT";
   Article 382, entitled "Nonmetallic Extensions";
   Article 388, entitled "Surface Nonmetallic Raceway";
   Article 394, entitled "Concealed Knob-And-Tube Wiring"; and
   Article 398, entitled "Open Wiring On Insulators".
(Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1E-3: REGISTRATION OF ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   The term "electrical contractor" as used in this article is hereby
defined as any person engaged in the business of installing or altering
electrical equipment, appliances, conduit, wiring, fixtures and appurtenances
for the utilization of electricity supplied for light, heat or power, not
including radio apparatus or equipment for wireless reception of sounds and
signals, and not including apparatus, conductors and other equipment installed
for or by public utilities, including common carriers which are under the
jurisdiction of the Illinois commerce commission for use in their operation as
public utilities. In addition, the term "electrical contractor" does not
include employees employed by such contractor to perform or supervise such
work.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in business as an "electrical
contractor", as herein defined, within the Village of Woodridge without being
registered as an electrical contractor in the manner hereinafter set forth.
      1.   Any person desiring to engage in the business of an electrical
contractor shall furnish a copy of a current electrical contractor's license
issued by any city, village or town in the State of Illinois. The scope of work
allowed under this license shall be governed by any limitations imposed by the
municipality that issued said license.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, alter or repair any
electrical wires or apparatus by authority of a permit issued to and for the
use of some other person.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any registered electrical contractor to
secure a permit for the installation, alteration, and repair of electrical
wires and apparatus for any person not entitled to such permit under the
electrical regulations of this electrical code.
   C.   The owner(s) of a single-family residence may perform their own
electrical wiring providing they obtain a permit and prove that the dwelling is
their primary residence. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-
2023)
8-1E-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Changes In Existing Wiring: It shall be unlawful for any person in any
way to cut, disturb, alter or change any electrical wiring or to permit such
electrical wiring to be cut, disturbed, altered or changed unless done in
conformity with the provisions of this article. Where a building is undergoing
remodeling, any changes to be made in the electrical installation shall first
have the approval of the building official before work is commenced.
   B.   Wiring Or Equipment Damaged By Fire Or Flood: It shall be unlawful to
alter or repair any electrical wires or apparatus damaged directly or
indirectly by fire or flood without first obtaining a permit for such work in
accordance with the provisions of this article.
   C.   Village Not Liable For Electrical Work: This article shall not be
construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any person owning,
operating or installing any electrical wires, appliances, apparatus,
construction or equipment for damages to anyone injured by any defect therein
by reason of the inspections authorized herein or the certificate of inspection
issued by the building official; nor shall the village be held liable for any
damages resulting from the enforcement of the provisions of this article.
   D.   Approval Required Prior To Concealment: No electrical work shall be
concealed until approved by the building official. This includes underground
installations which shall not be backfilled prior to inspection.
   E.   Exposure After Concealment: Any electrical work that has been concealed
without inspection shall be exposed.
   F.   Protection From Weather: Electrical service will be approved only after
the service panel is adequately protected from the weather. This shall
typically be provided by the installation of the decking of the floor above the
service panel.
   G.   Rough Electrical Inspection Requirements: Rough electrical inspection
shall be approved only after all piping is completed and wires have been
pulled.
   H.   Seals: The building official is empowered to attach to electrical
cabinets and equipment an official notice or seal to prevent use of
electricity, and it shall be unlawful for any other person to attach such seal,
or to break, change, destroy, tear, mutilate, cover or otherwise deface or
injure any such official notice or seal posted by the building official.
   I.   Utility Company Notification: No electrical service shall be connected
until the utility company has been notified by the building official.
   J.   Stamps; Reports: All electrical equipment shall bear the stamp of a
recognized testing agency, or duly authenticated reports from approved agencies
shall be submitted.
   K.   Safe Access: Inspectors must be provided with a safe means of access to
the work they are inspecting.
   L.   Impersonation Of An Inspector: A person who is not a lawful employee of
the community development department of the Village of Woodridge shall not
perform electrical inspections as required in this article nor shall represent
himself as an Electrical Inspector. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-
36, 11-2-2023)
8-1E-5: BRANCH CIRCUITS REQUIRED:
   A.   In addition to those branch circuits required in the National
Electrical Code, 2020 edition (NFPA 70-2020), referenced by section
8-1E-1  of this article, separate additional branch circuits shall be provided
in a dwelling occupancy as required below:
      1.   Furnace or heating plant.
      2.   Central air conditioning system.
      3.   Electric range:
         a.   Freestanding ranges: Two (2) no. 6 and one no. 8 minimum size
copper conductors.
         b.   Built in countertop and oven units: Connection shall be made by
three (3) no. 10 minimum copper conductors.
      4.   Built in microwave oven.
      5.   Through wall air conditioners and heating units.
      6.   Motors of one-half (1/2) horsepower or larger.
      7.   Electric water heaters.
      8.   Electric dryers: Two hundred forty (240) volt, minimum no. 10 wire
with "L" shaped receptacle.
      9.   Sump pump.
      10.   Sanitary ejector pump.
      11.   Central vacuum system.
      12.   Fire alarm system. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-
2-2023)
8-1E-6: ELECTRICAL CONDUCTORS:
   A.   Electrical conductors shall be copper only and of the proper capacity
to serve the loads connected thereto and shall not be loaded in excess of the
current ratings shown in the national electrical code, 2020 edition (NFPA 70-
2020), referenced by section
8-1E-1  of this article. The minimum size conductor for use in residential
wiring systems shall be no. 14 AWG, copper.
   B.   The minimum size conductor for all commercial and industrial work shall
be no. 12 AWG, copper, except for individual lighting whips and in control
wiring where the conductors carry only control load. (For remote control, low
energy power and signal circuits, refer to the National Electrical Code, 2020
edition [NFPA 70-2020], referenced by section
8-1E-1  of this article.)
   C.   In circuit wiring, the neutral conductor shall be white in color or
otherwise identified and white shall not be used for any other circuit wires.
In circuits carrying a case ground wire from a cutout cabinet to a branch
grounding type outlet, the case ground wire shall be bare or green in color and
green shall not be used for other circuit wires.
   D.   All conductors shall be sized to prevent a voltage drop exceeding five
percent (5%) at the farthest outlet of power, heating and lighting loads, or
combinations of such loads. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-
2023)
8-1E-7: RACEWAYS OR CONDUITS:
   A.   For all new work, wiring shall be installed in rigid metallic tubing
(EMT, IMC, or rigid), or surface metal raceways. Where flexible connections are
necessary, a separate ground wire shall be pulled in all flexible conduits.
Armored cable such as BX shall not be used in new work, including garage or
other accessory buildings.
   B.   Underground wiring shall be in rigid metallic conduit (RMC),
intermediate metal conduit (IMC) or rigid nonmetallic conduit (RNC, PVC,
schedule 40), as regulated elsewhere in this article for exterior
installations. All raceway joints shall be made tight and shall provide a
continuous electrical circuit for grounding purposes.
   C.   Wiring in concrete shall be contained within galvanized rigid metallic
conduit (RMC) or if above grade can be installed in EMT when a separate
adequately sized ground wire is installed and terminated.
   D.   Machine raceway drops must be in heavy wall conduit or intermediate
metal conduit when installed from buss duct on ceilings. All conduits must be
adequately supported and anchored. All conduits to machinery and mounted on
conveyors must be heavy    wall or intermediate conduit if conductors are more
than one hundred twenty (120) volts to ground.
   E.   All low voltage wiring shall be encased within an approved conduit
where concealed behind walls or hard ceilings (suspended ceilings shall not be
considered as "concealed") or where subject to physical damage. Exposed fire
alarm wiring shall be protected in conduit to a minimum height of eight feet
(8') above the finished floor.
   F.   All wiring from transformer pads shall be installed in rigid metallic
conduit (RMC). (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1E-8: OUTLETS REQUIRED:
   A.   General Lighting: General lighting in kitchens, bathrooms, powder
rooms, halls and stairwells shall be controlled by local wall switches.
      1.   Hallways: Lighting for hallways eight feet (8') or more in length
shall be controlled by three-way or four-way switching at each end.
      2.   Light Switches: Light switches shall not be located beyond five feet
(5') from the point of entry to a room, preferably adjacent to the door. In no
case shall switches be located behind the door.
      3.   Stairways: Stairway area lighting shall be installed and controlled
by three-way or four-way switches at each level and light shall be within five
feet (5') of the last stair. This will include basement stairways when exterior
entrance to basement or other entrances exist.
      4.   Closets: Walk-in closets shall be provided with overhead lighting
controlled by a wall switch. All other closets over six (6) square feet must
use shielded fluorescent fixtures.
      5.   Attics: Attics shall have at least one light fixture controlled by a
local wall switch, or shall be a pull chain fixture located within five feet
(5') of the entrance.
   B.   Receptacle Locations: Receptacles shall be installed in the following
locations:
      1.   Offices: Offices and similar areas shall have receptacles installed
as required in the 2020 NEC for residential occupancies, except that the wall
area behind a fully opened door shall not be included in the measurement and
lobbies shall be required to have only one (1) receptacle when the area is
fifty (50) square feet or less.
      2.   Hallways: Hallways and similar areas within commercial and
industrial uses, and the common areas of multi-family uses, shall have at least
one (1) one hundred and twenty-five (125)-volt duplex receptacle installed for
general purpose use for every thirty (30) linear feet of hallway.
   C.   Residential Garages: All residential garages must have:
      1.   In each attached garage and in each detached garage with electric
power, at least one receptacle outlet shall be installed in each vehicle bay
and not more than one and seven-tenths meters (1.7 m) or five and a half feet
(5.5 ft) above the floor protected by ground fault circuit interrupter device.
      2.   A ceiling light installed within the garage controlled by a switch
located within three feet (3') of the service door or overhead door.
      3.   An outside light adjacent to or over the service door to the garage.
      4.   Any additional receptacles installed in the garage shall also be
ground fault protected.
   Exception: Receptacles installed for appliances such as automatic door
openers, refrigerators, and freezers do not have to be ground fault protected.
   D.   Childcare Centers: Childproof receptacles are required in all childcare
centers. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1E-9: BRANCH CIRCUIT VOLTAGE LIMITATIONS:
Wall switching shall not exceed one hundred fifty (150) volts to ground. Wall
switching for circuits exceeding one hundred fifty (150) volts to ground shall
be installed in one of the following methods:
   A.   Low voltage relay switches; or
   B.   Panelboard switches. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-
2023)
8-1E-10: WIRING METHODS:
   A.   Only approved boxes may be used for the support of ceiling fans. All
fans shall also be rigidly supported from the structural member of the
building.
   B.   All junction boxes located in the ceiling of a bedroom or family room
shall be listed and approved for the support of a ceiling fan.
   C.   All 277/480-volt feeder and branch circuits shall be color coded brown,
orange, or yellow. All junction boxes used on 277/480 volt circuits shall be
identified as such.
   D.   No junction boxes, pull boxes, cabinets or ground clamps shall be
permitted in any place, location or position so that access to the interior
connections is prevented by any permanent object or structure such as pipes,
ducts, drywall, plaster, cabinets, plumbing fixtures, other electrical
equipment or appliances or interior finish material.
   E.   Portable office partitions with plastic raceways shall be wired with
flexible metal conduit between outlets. Partitions shall be hardwired to the
permanent power source and exposed flexible conduits shall be provided with
Kellem type grips at the terminations. The wiring of portable office partitions
shall be subject to the review of the building official.
   F.   Maximum number of outlets permitted on a fifteen (15) amp circuit shall
be ten (10). Maximum number of outlets on a twenty (20) amp circuit shall be
twelve (12).
   G.   Ground fault circuit interrupter outlets shall be resettable at each
individual outlet. Exception: A device may be used for more than one outlet if
the outlets are in the same room.
   H.   All bathroom receptacles in residential, commercial or industrial
buildings must be ground fault protected.
   I.   All light fixtures above bathtub or in shower must be installed with
ground fault circuit interrupter protection and approved for this type of
installation.
   J.   In new construction no switches shall be allowed within three feet
(3'), measured horizontally, from the inside wall of any tub or shower stall.
   K.   All boxes, conduits, and flexible metallic tubing must be securely
fastened and anchored in place. All box connectors shall be of a "thread and
locknut" type.
   L.   Modular or plug together lighting shall be permitted only by special
permission of the Community Development Department. In no way shall any modular
or plug together system be mechanically inferior to standard "hardwiring"
methods. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1E-11: SIGNS:
   A.   All signs and outside lighting: No wire may be exposed to view; all
wire must be in a raceway or protected by other approved methods.
   B.   Freestanding signs and outside lighting poles must be wired
underground.
   C.   A disconnect shall be located on the sign or signpost in addition to
any other disconnecting means.
   D.   All one hundred fifteen (115) volt exit signs shall derive their power
from a separate, dedicated circuit. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-
36, 11-2-2023)
8-1E-12: SERVICE ENTRANCE:
   A.   Minimum size of residential service: Two hundred (200) amp, thirty (30)
circuit panel, for new construction: No. 3/0 AWG minimum conductor size.
   Where the disconnecting means is installed within a building and where
conduit of a service entrance is not covered by a suitable fireproofing
material (such as two (2)-inch concrete covering), the disconnecting means and/
or service panel shall be located within five feet (5') of the point where such
conduit enters the building.
   B.   Panels on exterior masonry or concrete walls, e.g., basement walls,
must have one-fourth inch (1/4") airspace behind the panel and the panel shall
not be mounted more than one and five-eighths inches (1- 5/8") from the wall.
   C.   Electrical panels must have a thirty-six inch (36") clearance in front
of the panel and may not be obstructed by ducts, plumbing pipes, sump pumps or
other obstacles.
   D.   A panel circuit directory card shall be provided and all circuits
legibly identified or typed.
   E.   Service entrance conduit shall be either IMC or rigid conduit. Minimum
trade sizes shall be one and one-fourth inches (1- 1/4") for one hundred (100)
amp and two inches (2") for two hundred (200) amp services. This shall apply to
all panels and subpanels.
   F.   All wiring shall be copper only.
   G.   Multi-unit buildings, all subpanels within a tenant space, shall be
provided with a main disconnect. When more than one (1) panel is in a building
or unit the panels shall be labeled: "1 of 2", "1 of 3", etc., and a directory
or floor plan showing the locations of the panels shall be posted at each panel
location.
   H.   Circuit breaker lockouts are required on all emergency circuits. (Ord.
2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
ARTICLE F. PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
8-1F-1: Code Adopted
8-1F-2: Amendments To Code
8-1F-1: CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set out herein, that certain
code known as the Illinois Plumbing Code, 2014, as sponsored and published by
the Illinois Department of Public Health, together with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set forth, one copy of which has
been for a period of more than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date
hereof and now is on file in the Office of the Village Clerk. (Ord. 2016-4, 2-
4-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1F-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes are hereby made to
the Illinois plumbing code:
   A.   Any dwelling containing any floor (including basement floors) below
grade at foundation are required to have an overhead sewer. All fixtures
located below grade shall drain to an ejector pit with pump (minimum sump
twenty-four inches (24")). Approval of the building official shall be required
for any other type of installation.
   B.   Pursuant to 17 Ill. Admin. Code 3730.307 (c)(4) and subject to the
Illinois plumbing code (77 Ill. Admin. Code 890) and the lawn irrigation
contractor and lawn sprinkler system registration code (77 Ill. Admin. Code
892) be it hereby ordained by the Village of Woodridge, all new fixtures and
irrigation controllers installed after the effective date hereof shall bear the
WaterSense label (as designed by the U.S. EPA WaterSense program), when such
labeled fixtures are available.
   C.   A reduced pressure zone backflow prevention device shall be installed
inside the building on the water supply line serving the lawn sprinkler system,
shall be protected from freezing, shall be installed before a pump or device,
and shall be located no more than ten feet (10') from the water meter. Water
meters and backflow devices shall not be installed in valve vaults or manholes.
The reduced pressure zone backflow device must be a minimum of one and one-half
feet (1.5') and maximum of four feet (4') above the floor.
   Exception: In residential lawn sprinkler systems the reduced pressure zone
backflow device can be installed farther than ten feet (10') from the meter as
long as it meets all of the other requirements contained here within.
   D.   Approved Materials For Building Sewer, Table 890. App A Delete the
following materials (1, 2, 5, 8, 9, and 11).
   E.   Approved Materials For Water Service Pipe, Table 890. App A Delete the
following materials (1, 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15).
   F.   Water service (before the meter): Mechanical joint required, soldered
or silver soldered joints are not approved.
   G.   Approve Building Drainage/Vent Pipe, Table 890. App A Delete the
following materials (1, 4, 12, 13).
   H.   Approved Materials for Water Distribution System, Table 890.App A
Delete in its entirety. Add: "Type K or L copper only."
   I.   Lawn sprinklers may be installed on parkways and utility easements
subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Sprinkler heads shall be flush with grade when not in operation.
      2.   A declaration of covenants in a form prepared by the village of
Woodridge shall be executed by the property owners and recorded with the
appropriate recorder(s) of deeds prior to the issuance of a permit.
   J.   The water meter shall be installed inside the building. Water meter can
be installed outside a building only with the building officials approval.
   K.   Water Service Piping Size. The water service pipe from the street main
(including the tap) to the water distribution system for the building shall be
at least one and one half inch (1.5") diameter, type K, copper. (Ord. 2016-4,
2-4-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
ARTICLE G. MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
8-1G-1: Code Adopted
8-1G-2: Amendments To Code
8-1G-3: Plenums And Ductwork
8-1G-4: Flexible Metallic Air Ducts
8-1G-5: Gas Supply Piping
8-1G-6: Venting
8-1G-7: Appliance Connections
8-1G-1: CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set out herein, that certain
Code known as the International Mechanical Code, 2021, prepared and published
by the International Code Council, Inc., together with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set forth, one (1) copy of which
has been for a period of more than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date
hereof and now is on file in the Office of the Village Clerk. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-
13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1G-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes are hereby made to
the international mechanical code, 2021:
   Section 101.1 Title. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 101.2 Scope. Delete exceptions in their entirety. Section 106.4.3
Expiration. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 106.4.4 Extensions. Delete in its entirety. Section 109 Fees. Delete
in its entirety.
   Section 113 Means Of Appeal. Delete in its entirety. Section 115.4 Violation
Penalties. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 116 Stop Work Order. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 301.11 Plumbing Connections. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute with the following new section 301.11:
      Section 301.11 Plumbing Connections. All references within this code to
the international plumbing code shall be changed to read, "Illinois plumbing
code as currently adopted, as sponsored and published by the Illinois
department of public health, and as amended by title 8, chapter 1, article F,
of the village code." The provisions of the Illinois plumbing code shall apply
to the installation, alteration, repair and replacement of plumbing systems,
including appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances thereto.
   Appendix A Chimney Connector Pass-Throughs. Adopt in its entirety.
   Appendix B Recommended Permit Fee Schedule. Delete in its entirety.
   Appendix C Board of Appeals. Delete in its entirety.
   (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1G-3: PLENUMS AND DUCTWORK:
On all residential developments, rigid metallic ducts shall be used for all
plenum and supply air. Stud and joist space return air shall not be allowed.
Minimum sheet metal thickness for single-family dwelling units shall be as
identified in table 603.4 of the International Mechanical Code, as currently
adopted. (Ord. 2017-51, 9-21-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1G-4: FLEXIBLE METALLIC AIR DUCTS:
On all residential developments, flexible metallic air ducts may be used where
practical difficulties are encountered subject to review and approval by the
building official prior to installation. In other use groups, the maximum
length shall not exceed fourteen feet (14'). (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd.
Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1G-5: GAS SUPPLY PIPING:
All gas supply and distribution piping shall be black iron. Copper pipe and
approved flexible pipe shall be used for appliance hookup only and shall not
pass through any wall or floor assembly. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord.
2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1G-6: VENTING:
Unvented appliances shall be allowed only by special permission of the building
official. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1G-7: APPLIANCE CONNECTIONS:
Approved flexible connectors shall only be used for gas appliances equipped
with castors or are otherwise subject to periodic movement or relocation. (Ord.
2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
ARTICLE H. EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
8-1H-1: Code Adopted
8-1H-1: CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out herein governing the
construction of all nonresidential and multi-family structures, that certain
Code known as the International Existing Building Code, 2021, second printing,
as prepared and published by the International Code Council, Inc., together
with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set forth,
one (1) copy of which has been for a period of more than thirty (30) days prior
to the effective date hereof and now is on file in the Office of the Village
Clerk. (Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
ARTICLE I. FIRE CODES
SECTION:
8-1I-1: Code Adopted
8-1I-2: Amendments To Code
8-1I-3: Definitions
8-1I-4: Administrative Bodies
8-1I-5: Application Of Provisions
8-1I-6: Permits And Approvals
8-1I-7: Explosives And Blasting Agents
8-1I-8: Flammable Liquids; Liquefied Petroleum Gases
8-1I-9: Manufacturing And Storage Of Fireworks Is Prohibited
8-1I-10: Motor Vehicle Routes For Vehicles Transporting Hazardous Chemicals Or
Other Dangerous Articles, Including Liquefied Petroleum Gases And Combustible
And Flammable Liquids
8-1I-11: Emergency Conditions
8-1I-12: Modifications
8-1I-13: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies Requiring Permits
8-1I-1: CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out herein the Code known
as the International Fire Code, 2021 edition, as published by the International
Code Council, Inc., with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes
hereinafter set forth, one (1) copy of which has been for a period of more than
thirty (30) days prior to the effective date hereof and now is on file in the
Office of the Village Clerk. (Ord. 2017-51, 9-21-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-
2023)
8-1I-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes are hereby made to
the international fire code, 2012 edition:
Section 101.1 Title. Delete in its entirety.
Section 102.3 Change Of Use Or Occupancy. Delete in its entirety.
Section 102.4 Application Of Building Code. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute the following new section 102.4:
   Section 102.4 Application Of Building Code. The design and construction of
new structures, as well as the repair, alteration and addition to existing
structures shall comply with the International Building Code/2021, second
printing, as prepared and published by the International Code Council, Inc.,
and as amended by title 8, chapter 1, of the village code. All references
herein to the "International Existing Building Code" shall be deleted, and in
lieu thereof substitute the International Building Code/2021, second printing,
as prepared and published by the International Code Council, Inc., and as
amended by title 8, chapter 1, of the village code.
Section 102.4 Application Of Building Code. Amend by adding the following new
sections 102.4.1 and 102.4.2:
   Section 102.4.1 Application Of Electrical Code. All references within this
code to the "ICC electrical code" shall be changed to read, "National
Electrical Code, 2020 edition (NFPA 70- 2020), as prepared and published by the
National Fire Protection Association, Inc., and as amended by title 8, chapter
1, article E, of the village code." The provisions of said electrical code, as
amended, shall apply to the installation, alteration, repair, and replacement
of electrical systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and
appurtenances thereto.
   Section 102.4.2 Application Of Plumbing Code. All references within this
code to the "International Plumbing Code" shall be changed to read, "Illinois
Plumbing Code as currently adopted, as sponsored and published by the Illinois
department of public health, and as amended by title 8, chapter 1, article F,
of the village code." The provisions of said plumbing code, as amended, shall
apply to the installation, alteration, repair and replacement of plumbing
systems, including appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances thereto.
Section 103.2 Appointment. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section 103.2:
   Section 103.2 Appointment. The fire code official shall be the building
official or his designee; and the fire code official shall not be removed from
office except for cause and after full opportunity to be heard on specific and
relevant charges by and before the appointing authority.
Section 104.8.1 Materials And Equipment Reuse. Delete in its entirety.
Section 105.3.1 Expiration. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section 105.3.1:
   Section 105.3.1 Expiration. An operational permit shall remain in effect
until reissued, renewed or revoked or for such a period of time as specified in
the permit. The expiration and extension of construction permits shall be in
accordance with title 8, chapter 1, article A of the village code.
Section 105.3.2 Extensions. Delete in its entirety.
Section 105.3.3 Occupancy Prohibited Before Approval. Delete in its entirety.
Section 105.3.4 Conditional Permits. Delete in its entirety.
Section 106.1 Construction Documents. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute the following new section 105.4:
   Section 106.1 Construction Documents. Construction documents shall be in
accordance with this section and with title 8, chapter 1, article A of the
village code.
Section 111 Means Of Appeals. Delete in its entirety. Section 112.4 Violation
Penalties. Delete in its entirety.
Section 114 Unsafe Structures or Equipment. Amend by adding the following new
section 114.8:
   Section 114.8 Fire Watch. When deemed necessary by the fire code official, a
fire watch shall be ordered in accordance with this code. The fire code
official shall determine the number of personnel required and the duration
necessary for the fire watch. Conditions that may require a fire watch include,
but are not limited to, the following:
   1.   Where fire safety equipment or fire protection systems for a building
are placed out of service, and will not likely be restored immediately;
   2.   Where the fire load in a building is greater than the normal daily
operations; or
   3.   Where other unsafe or hazardous conditions exist.
Section 304.2 Storage. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof substitute
the following new section 304.2:
   Section 304.2 Storage. Storage of combustible rubbish shall not produce
conditions that will create a nuisance or a hazard to the public health, safety
or welfare. Combustible materials shall be removed daily or more often as is
necessary to suitable vaults, bins, dumpsters, or compactors. Such practices
shall be as approved by the fire official.
Section 311.2.1 Security. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof substitute
the following new section 311.2.1:
   Section 311.2.1 Security. Every person owning or having charge or control of
any vacant or fire damaged building shall remove all combustible waste and
refuse therein. Exterior openings and interior openings accessible to other
tenants or unauthorized persons shall be boarded, locked, blocked or otherwise
protected to prevent entry by unauthorized individuals.
Section 311.2.2 Fire Protection. Delete exceptions in their entirety.
Section 315.4 Outside Storage. Delete exceptions in their entirety.
Section 401.1 Scope. Delete exception in its entirety.
Section 503 Fire Apparatus Access Roads. Amend by adding the following new
section 503.7:
   Section 503.7 Additional Design Components. Design components shall be
provided so that:
   1.   Public or private access is provided to each building so that the first
responding fire department pumper unit will be able to be so located that all
points of the interior of the building may be reached by one hundred fifty feet
(150') of initial attack hose.
   Where the size or height of the building does not allow this regulation to
be met, an interior standpipe system equipped with fire department hose
connections approved by the fire code official may be allowed as an exception.
The standpipe system shall be connected to a public water system.
   A minimum of two (2) two and one-half inch (21/2") inlets or one (1) five
inch (5") Storz connection with 30-degree turndown (fire department connection)
shall be provided as determined by the AHJ.
   2.   The public or private access for motor fire apparatus shall be provided
such that there may be proper operation of ladders and mechanically elevated
mechanisms, and as shown on the approved site plan.
   3.   Access routes shall be so arranged that fire department apparatus may
respond from all points of the building to adjacent fire hydrants along routes
not to exceed three hundred feet (300') from the most remote point of the
building perimeter to the closest fire hydrant.
   4.   Fire lanes on private property shall be approved by the fire code
official, and parking of motor vehicles otherwise obstructing such fire lanes
or access routes shall be prohibited at all times. Permanent all-weather signs
identifying fire lanes and accessways shall be posted.
   5.   Access roads or fire lanes for unlimited area buildings and buildings
over thirty feet (30') in height may be not less than fifteen feet (15') from
the buildings, unless the adjacent wall has a fire-resistive rating of two (2)
hours, minimum. This optional design must be approved by the fire code
official. If the height of the building requires a greater setback to ladder
the buildings, the distance from the building shall be as approved by the fire
code official.
Section 505.1 Address Numbers. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new sections 505.1 and 505.2:
   505.1 Address Numbers. New and existing buildings shall have approved
address numbers, building numbers, suite numbers or approved building
identification placed in a position that is plainly legible and visible from
the street or road fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with
their background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters.
Numbers/letters shall be a minimum of four inches (4") high. Numbers/letters
shall have a minimum stroke width of one-half inch (1/2").
   Exception: If the building is farther than 50' from the street or the road
fronting the property, the numerals shall be a minimum height of 8" with a
stroke width of 3/4".
   505.3 All suites within a building shall be clearly labeled and placed in a
position that is plainly legible and visible from the common area outside of
the suite. Building door identification numbers shall be provided on commercial
and industrial buildings to facilitate emergency response. Each door shall have
a number starting with the main entrance doors as door number:
   1.   Subsequent doors should be numbered sequentially in a clockwise order,
to the left of the first door and around the building. Door numbers shall be
placed at the top right of the door as you face the door. Door numbers shall be
affixed on the inside and the outside of the door. Numbers on the inside of the
door shall match the number on the exterior. Numbers shall be Arabic style 4
inch in height and stroke width of one-half inch ½", reflective material and in
contrasting color to the door.
Section 506.1 Where Required. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section 506.1:
   Section 506.1 Where Required. Where access to or within a structure or an
area is restricted because of secured openings, or where immediate access is
necessary for life-saving or fire-fighting purposes, the fire code official
shall require a key box to be installed in an approved location. In addition,
the fire code official shall require all existing structures that are required
to be equipped with an approved fire alarm system that consists of smoke and/or
heat detection, and all buildings required to be equipped with a complete
sprinkler system, to have an approved key box system. Installation is required
within thirty (30) days after approval of this article.
Section 506 Key Boxes. Amend by adding the following new sections 506.3 and
506.4:
   Section 506.3 Height. The key box shall not be located higher than five feet
(5') above grade. If there are practical difficulties locating the key box at
this height, the location shall be approved by the fire code official.
   Section 506.4 Contents. The approved key box shall be sized to contain all
keys, key cards and access code information necessary to gain access to and
throughout the building as required by the fire code official.
Section 507.5.1 Where Required. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section 507.5.1:
   Section 507.5.1 Where Required. Where a portion of the facility or building
hereafter constructed or moved into or within the jurisdiction is more than
three hundred (300) feet from a hydrant on a fire apparatus road, as measured
by an approved route around the exterior of the facility or building, on-site
fire hydrants and mains shall be provided where required by the fire code
official.
Section 507.5 Fire Hydrant Systems. Amend by adding the following new section
507.5.7:
   Section 507.5.7 Installation. The installation of fire hydrants shall be in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Water supplies shall be delivered to fire hydrants under pressure
equitable to the adjacent municipal main.
   2.   Fire hydrants shall be located along public streets, fire lanes, or
access routes so that no portion of the building perimeter will be over three
hundred feet (300') from a public fire hydrant. Where this is not possible,
hydrants shall be placed along the access route at a location approved by the
fire code official.
   3.   Access to fire hydrants shall be made by all-weather roadways adequate
in width, clearance and strength for fire fighting purposes. Such routes,
including private roadways, shall be maintained accessible during all seasons
of the year.
   4.   Hydrants shall be located approximately ten feet (10') from all-weather
roadways. Where approved by the fire code official, a hydrant may be placed no
less than three feet (3') from an all-weather roadway.
   5.   In apartments, town houses, condominiums, town/row or cluster housing
areas where streets or parking lots dead end, hydrants shall be placed along
the access route at a location approved by the fire code official.
   6.   At least two (2) fire hydrants shall be located within three hundred
feet (300') of the building.
   7.   Hydrants shall not be located closer than twenty-five feet (25') to a
building.
   8.   Each hydrant shall have the pumper (steamer) connection facing the
primary all-weather roadway, and shall be accessible from said roadway.
   9.   Fire hydrant outlets/connections shall be located no less than eighteen
inches (18") and no more than thirty-six inches (36") above the finished grade.
   10.   Fire hydrants shall be protected from accidental damage by approved
methods when located in areas subject to vehicular damage.
   11.   Fire hydrants used in connection with water supplies shall be of a
type as specified in title 10 of the village code entitled "Subdivisions", or
as otherwise approved by the village engineer.
   12.   A fire hydrant shall be located within seventy-five feet (75') of the
building fire department connection.
Section 509.1 Identification. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section 509.1:
   509.1 Identification. Fire protection equipment shall be identified in an
approved manner. Rooms containing controls for air-conditioning systems or fire
protection systems shall be identified for the use of the fire department.
Approved signs required to identify fire protection system equipment and
equipment location shall be constructed of durable materials, permanently
installed and readily visible. The door that provides access to the fire alarm
control panel location shall be marked FACP in minimum 4-inch Arabic letters,
with a 1/2-inch stroke and of contrasting color to the door. Fire command rooms
that contain fire alarm and sprinkler controls shall be labeled FACP/Fire
Sprinkler Room.
Section 509 Fire Department Access To Equipment. Amend by adding the following
new section 509.3:
   Section 509.3 Access To Fire Equipment. In multiple single-family dwellings
where no interior common area exists, fire alarm panels and sprinkler system
valves shall be located in a room accessible only to qualified, including fire
district, personnel. The fire district shall have access to such room and
equipment at any time, unless approved otherwise by the fire code official.
Section 604.1 Required. Amend by adding the following new section 604.1.1:
   Section 607.1.1 Size. At least one (1) elevator shall be provided for fire
district emergency access in accordance with section 3002.4 as amended. The
minimum clearance distance between walls or between a wall and a door,
excluding return panels, shall not be less than the following:
   1.   Center door-minimum of forty-two (42") inches of clear opening at the
door and interior clear dimensions of not less than eighty-four (84") inches
deep and sixty-three (63") inches wide.
   2.   Side door-minimum of forty-two (42") inches of clear opening at the
door and interior clear dimensions of not less than eighty-four (84") inches
deep and fifty-one (51") inches wide.
Section 604 Elevator Operation, Maintenance And Fire Service Keys. Amend by
adding the following new section 604.8:
   Section 604.8 Elevator Phone. An elevator phone, where required, shall
terminate directly at a location specified or approved by the fire code
official.
Section 806.1.1 Restricted Occupancies. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute the following new section 806.1.1:
   Section 806.1.1 Restricted Occupancies. Natural cut trees shall only be
allowed in group R-2 and R-3.
Section 807.5.2.1 Storage In Corridors And Lobbies. Delete exceptions nos. 1
and 2 in their entirety.
Section 807.5.5.1 Storage In Corridors And Lobbies. Delete exceptions nos. 1
and 2 in their entirety.
Section 901.6.3 Records. Amend by adding the following new section 901.6.3.2:
   Section 901.6.3.2 Submission of Reports. Contractors who perform inspection,
testing and/or maintenance services on fire and life safety systems are
required to electronically submit all compliant and non-compliant reports to
the Community Development Department via a method approved by the Building
Commissioner.
Section 903.2 Where Required. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section 903.2:
   Section 903.2 Where Required. All Occupancies Other Than Group U. An
automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all buildings
containing any use group other than U. For use group R-3 refer to the IRC
section 313.
Section 903.2.1 Group A. Delete in its entirety.
Section 903.2.2 Ambulatory Care Facilities. Delete in its entirety.
Section 903.2.3 Group E. Delete in its entirety.
Section 903.2.4 Group F-1. Delete in its entirety.
Section 903.2.5 Group H. Delete in its entirety.
Section 903.2.6 Group I. Delete in its entirety.
Section 903.2.7 Group M. Delete in its entirety.
Section 903.2.8 Group R. Delete in its entirety.
Section 903.2.9 Group S-1. Delete in its entirety.
Section 903.2.10 Group S-2. Delete in its entirety.
Section 903.2.11 Specific Buildings Areas And Hazards. Delete in its entirety
and in lieu thereof substitute the following new section 903.2.11:
   Section 903.2.11 All Occupancies Other Than Group U. An automatic sprinkler
system shall be provided throughout all buildings containing any use group
other than U. For use group R-3 refer to the IRC section 313.
Section 905.1 General. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof substitute
the following new section 905.1:
   Section 905.1 General. Class I standpipe systems shall be provided in new
buildings and structures in accordance with this section. All references herein
to either class II standpipe system(s) or class III standpipe system(s) shall
be deleted and in lieu thereof shall substitute the words "class I standpipe
system(s)". Fire hose threads used in connection with standpipe systems shall
be approved and shall be compatible with fire district hose threads. The
location of the fire district hose connections shall be approved. In buildings
used for high-pile combustible storage, fire protection shall be in accordance
with chapter 32.
Section 905.3.1 Building Height. Amend by adding the following new section
905.3.1.1:
   Section 905.3.1.1 Building Area. Class I standpipe systems shall be
installed in all buildings where any portion of the building's interior area is
more than one hundred fifty (150') feet of travel vertically and horizontally
from the nearest point of fire district vehicle access.
Section 905.7.2 Locking Cabinet Doors. Delete exception nos. 1 and 2 in their
entirety. Section 905.8 Dry Standpipes. Add exception 2:
   Exception 2. When approved by the fire code official.
Section 906.1 Where Required. Amend by adding the following new subsection 7:
   7.   Within five feet (5') of all exit doors in all but R-3 occupancies. If
there are practical difficulties in locating the fire extinguisher within five
feet (5') then it shall be as directed by the fire code official.
Section 907.1.3 Equipment. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section 907.1.3:
   Section 907.1.3 Equipment. Systems and their components shall be listed and
approved for the purpose for which they are installed. All fire alarm systems
shall be relegated to fire alarm associated equipment and not be combined with
burglar alarm equipment. All new fire alarm systems shall be addressable.
Section 907.1 General. Amend by adding the following new section 907.1.4:
   Section 907.1.4 Supervision. Required automatic detection and alarm systems
shall be directly connected to an approved UL fire alarm receiving location
providing twenty-four (24) hour supervision of alarm and system trouble. If the
alarm is approved to be supervised outside of the DuPage, Will and Cook County
areas, it shall also have a direct connection that terminates at a location
approved by the fire code official.
Section 907.1 General. Amend by adding the following new section 907.1.5:
   Section 907.1.5 Acceptance Testing. Testing of alarm systems shall be done
in accordance with NFPA 72 and/or the fire code official, and a certificate of
completion shall be provided to the fire code official.
Section 907.1 General. Amend by adding the following new section 907.1.6:
   Section 907.1.6 Power Source. All backup emergency power supplies for fire
alarm systems or devices shall be capable of providing full operation of the
system or device for a minimum of 60 hours upon loss of primary power.
Section 907.2 Where Required-New Buildings And Structures. Delete in its
entirety and in lieu thereof substitute the following new section 907.2:
   Section 907.2 Where Required-New Buildings And Structures. An approved
automatic fire alarm system shall be provided in all new buildings, other than
buildings of group U and detached or horizontally separated single-family
dwelling units of group R-3. References herein to the contrary shall be
deleted. An approved manual fire alarm system and smoke detection systems shall
be provided in accordance with sections 907.2.1 through 907.2.23. Where
automatic sprinkler protection installed in accordance with section 903.3.1.1
or 903.3.1.2 is provided and connected to the building fire alarm system,
automatic detection required by this section shall not be required.
   An approved automatic fire detection system shall be installed in accordance
with the provisions of this code and NFPA 72. Devices, combinations of devices,
appliances and equipment shall comply with section 907.1.2. The automatic fire
detectors shall be smoke detectors, except that an approved alternative type of
detector shall be installed in spaces such as boiler rooms where, during normal
operation, products of combustion are present in sufficient quantity to actuate
a smoke detector. In all cases, rate-of-rise type heat detectors are prohibited
for use in guest rooms and dwelling units.
   All wiring in non-accessible areas shall be installed in electrical metallic
tubing but may be run exposed in accessible areas over eight (8'-0") feet above
finished floor such as, but not limited to, spaces above dropped ceilings,
attic spaces, crawl spaces and must be properly fastened.
   Audio visual (AV) devices shall not be installed on lay in type ceilings. In
areas that have lay in type ceilings AV devices shall be wall mounted.
Section 907.2.1 Group A. Delete exception in its entirety.
Section 907.2.2 Group B. Delete exception in its entirety.
Section 907.2.3 Group E. Delete exceptions in their entirety.
Section 907.2.4 Group F. Delete exception in its entirety.
Section 907.2.7 Group M. Delete exception in its entirety.
Section 907.2.8 Group R-1. Amend by adding the following new section 907.2.8.4:
Section 907.2.8.4 Means Of Egress. Automatic smoke detectors, connected
directly to the fire alarm system, shall be installed at the top of each exit
stairway and spaced no more than every third floor below, exit accessways and
common area means of egress corridors.
Section 907.2.8.1 Manual Fire Alarm System. Delete exceptions in their
entirety.
Section 907.2.8.2 Automatic Smoke Detection System. Amend by adding the
following new section 907.2.8.2.1:
   Section 907.2.8.2.1 Fixed Temperature Heat Detector. For existing non-
sprinklered, converted, remodeled or retrofit multifamily dwellings, a minimum
of one (1) fixed temperature heat detector is required in the immediate
vicinity of all sleeping areas in each dwelling unit. Said fixed temperature
heat detectors shall be directly connected to the automatic fire alarm system.
In all such cases, rate-of-rise heat detectors are prohibited.
Section 907.2.9.1 Group R-2. Delete exceptions nos. 1 and 2 in their entirety.
Section 907.2.9 Group R-2. Amend by adding the following new section 907.2.9.2:
   Section 907.2.9.2 Means Of Egress. Automatic smoke detectors, connected
directly to the fire alarm system, shall be installed at the top of each exit
stairway and spaced no more than every third floor below, exit accessways and
common area means of egress corridors.
Section 907.6.4 Zones. Delete in its entirety
Section 907.6.4.2 High-Rise Buildings. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute the following new section 907.6.3.2:
   Section 907.6.4.2 All Buildings. A separate zone by floor shall be provided
for all of the following types of alarm initiating devices where provided:
   1.   Detection devices;
   2.   Sprinkler water-flow devices;
   3.   Manual fire alarm boxes;
   4.   Devices in each tenant space of a multi-tenant occupancy; and
   5.   Other approved types of automatic fire detection devices or suppression
systems.
Section 907.6.6 Monitoring. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof
substitute the following new section 907.6.6:
   Section 907.6.6 Monitoring. Where required by this chapter or by the
International Building Code, an approved supervising station in accordance with
NFPA 72 shall monitor fire alarm system. All new fire alarm systems shall
transmit their signals by means approved by the fire code official.
Section 912.2 Location. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof substitute
the following new section 912.2:
   Section 912.2 Location. With respect to hydrants, driveways, buildings and
landscaping, fire department connections shall be clear of obstructions, and
shall be located such that the fire apparatus and hose connected to supply the
system will not obstruct access to the building for other fire apparatus. The
location of the fire district connections shall be approved.
Section 913.4 Valve Supervision. Delete exception no. 4 in its entirety.
Chapter 10 Means Of Egress. With the exception of section 1032, chapter 10
shall be deleted in its entirety. Title 8, chapter 1, article D, of the village
code shall regulate the means of egress in conjunction with section 1032 of the
international fire code, 2021 edition.
Section 1104.3 Exit Sign Illumination. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute the following new section 1104.3:
   Section 1104.3 Exit Sign Illumination. All newly installed exit signs shall
be internally illuminated and supplied with emergency back-up power in
accordance with the provisions of title 8, chapter 1, articles D and E, of the
village code.
Section 1104.5 Illumination Emergency Power. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute the following new section 1104.5:
   Section 1104.5 Illumination Emergency Power. The power supply for means of
egress illumination shall normally be provided for by the premises' electrical
supply. In the event of power supply failure, illumination shall be
automatically provided from an approved emergency system. The power source and
required duration of emergency operation shall be in accordance with the
provisions of title 8, chapter 1, articles D and E, of the village code.
Section 2304.3 Unattended Self-Service Motor Fuel-Dispensing Facilities. Delete
in its entirety and in lieu thereof substitute the following new section
2304.3:
   Section 2304.3 Unattended Self-Service Motor Fuel-Dispensing Facilities.
Unattended self-service motor fuel-dispensing facilities shall be prohibited.
Special type dispensers, such as coin, key or card operated devices, for self-
service operation by the general public are prohibited unless an attendant is
on premises.
Section 5003.4 Material Safety Data Sheets. Delete exception in its entirety.
Section 5003.4 Material Safety Data Sheets. Amend by adding the following new
section 5003.4.1:
   Section 5003.4.1 Location. The location of the required safety data sheets
shall be as approved by the fire code official.
Section 5608.1 General. Amend by adding the following new section 5608.1.1:
   Section 5608.1.1 Permit Applications. Applications in a form developed by
the building official for permits shall be made in writing at least thirty (30)
days in advance of the display or discharge of fireworks.
Section 5608.1 General. Amend by adding the following new section 5608.1.2:
   Section 5608.1.2 Bond And Responsibility. Bond and responsibility for
fireworks display and discharge requires "public liability insurance in the
amounts of not less than four million dollars ($4,000,000.00) bodily injury and
two hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) property damage and the
village of Woodridge, Illinois, and the fire district shall be added as
additional insured."
(Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2018-17, 6-7-2018; Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1I-3: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Wherever the term "fire prevention code" or "fire code" is used in the
codes adopted herein by reference, they shall be held to mean the Village of
Woodridge fire code.
   B.   Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the codes adopted herein by
reference, it shall be held to mean the Village of Woodridge.
   C.   Wherever the word "Village" is used in the codes adopted herein by
reference, it shall be held to mean the Village of Woodridge.
   D.   Wherever the term "corporation counsel" is used in the codes adopted
herein by reference, it shall be held to mean the legal counsel for the Village
of Woodridge.
   E.   Wherever the term "fire official", "fire code official", "code
official", "fire marshal", "authority having jurisdiction" or "chief of the
bureau of fire prevention" is used in the codes adopted herein by reference, it
shall be held to mean the building official.
   F.   Wherever the term "bureau of fire prevention" is used in the codes
adopted herein by reference, it shall be held to mean the bureau of fire
prevention of the Village of Woodridge, community development department. (Ord.
2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1I-4: ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES:
   A.   The fire code shall be enforced by the bureau of fire prevention in the
Village of Woodridge community development department which is hereby
established and which shall be operated under the supervision of the building
official.
   B.   The person in general charge of the bureau of fire prevention shall be
the building official, and, as such, the building official shall also be known
as the fire code official.
   C.   The building official may detail additional personnel as inspectors to
assist in enforcing this article. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36,
11-2-2023)
8-1I-5: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
Except as provided elsewhere in this article, any existing building and/or
structure shall be brought into compliance with all applicable provisions of
this article in the following situations:
   A.   If the structure or building is increased in floor area or in height,
the entire structure or building shall be made to conform with the requirements
of this article.
   B.   If any portion is changed in occupancy or use, that portion separated
by approved fire rated construction shall be made to conform with the
requirements of this article.
   C.   If any portion, of the entire structure, is altered or remodeled in a
dollar amount in excess of twenty five percent (25%) of the fair market value
of the building or structure before the alteration or remodeling in any five
(5) year period, the entire building structure shall be made to conform to the
requirements of this article.
   D.   If a building or structure is damaged by fire or other cause in excess
of fifty percent (50%) of the fair market value before the damage occurred, the
entire structure or building (exclusive of foundation) shall meet the
requirements of this article. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-
2-2023)
8-1I-6: PERMITS AND APPROVALS:
Where special permits are required, application shall be made to the building
official. He shall determine criteria, limitations and duration of permits and
shall not issue special permits until the appropriate requirements are met.
(Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1I-7: EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS:
The storage, handling and use of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited
within the village, unless authorized by the building official by the issuance
of a special permit. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1I-8: FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS; LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES:
   A.   The storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is
prohibited, unless authorized by the building official by the issuance of a
special permit.
   B.   The bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases in excess of one thousand
(1,000) gallons' water capacity is prohibited, unless authorized by the
building official by the issuance of a special permit. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-
2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1I-9: MANUFACTURING AND STORAGE OF FIREWORKS IS PROHIBITED:
The manufacture and storage of fireworks is prohibited within the corporate
limits of the village. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1I-10: MOTOR VEHICLE ROUTES FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS OR
OTHER DANGEROUS ARTICLES, INCLUDING LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES AND COMBUSTIBLE
AND FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
The routes for vehicles transporting hazardous chemicals and other dangerous
articles are hereby established as routes approved by state, county or federal
governments. No tank vehicles shall be parked for over one hour or left
unattended at any time. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1I-11: EMERGENCY CONDITIONS:
When in the opinion of the building official there is actual and immediate
danger because of hazardous conditions which endanger life or may cause
hazardous conditions which endanger life or may cause adverse effects upon
adjoining properties, the building official may order the building to be
immediately vacated and cause immediate remedial action if necessary. The cost
of such remedial action shall be borne by the owner of the premises. (Ord.
2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1I-12: MODIFICATIONS:
The fire marshal shall have power to modify any of the provisions of this
article upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly
authorized agent when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying
out the strict letter of this article, provided that the spirit of this article
shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The
particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of
the fire marshal shall be entered upon the records of the department and a
signed copy shall be furnished the applicant. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd.
Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1I-13: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES REQUIRING PERMITS:
The building official shall determine and specify after giving affected persons
an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies, which
shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in this article. The
fire marshal shall post such list in a conspicuous place in his office, and
distribute copies thereof to interested persons. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd.
Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
ARTICLE J. PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
8-1J-1: Property Maintenance Code; Adopted; Amendments
8-1J-2: Inspections
8-1J-3: Prohibited Acts
8-1J-4: Designation As Unfit For Human Habitation
8-1J-5: Effect And Adoption Of State Law Provisions
8-1J-6: Compliance With Village And State Provisions
8-1J-7: Enforcement
8-1J-8: Appeals
8-1J-1: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE; ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Code Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out
herein that certain Code known as the International Property Maintenance Code,
2021, as published by the International Code Council, Inc., together with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set forth, one (1)
copy of which has been for a period of more than thirty (30) days prior to the
effective date hereof and now is on file in the Office of the Village Clerk.
   B.   Amendments To Code: The following additions, insertions, deletions and
changes are hereby made to the international property maintenance code, 2021:
   Section 101.3 Intent. Delete in its entirety and in lieu thereof substitute
the following new section 101.3:
      Section 101.3 Intent. This code shall be construed to secure its
expressed intent, which is to ensure public health, safety and welfare insofar
as they are affected by the continued occupancy and maintenance of structures
and premises. Existing structures and premises that do not comply with these
provisions shall be altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health
and safety as required within. Repairs, alterations, additions to and change of
occupancy in existing buildings shall comply with the international building
code/2021, second printing, and/or the international residential code for one-
and two-family dwellings, 2021.
   Section 102.3 Application Of Other Codes. Delete in its entirety and in lieu
thereof substitute the following new section 102.3:
      Section 102.3 Application Of Other Codes. Repairs, additions or
alterations to a structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in
accordance with the procedures and provisions in title 8 of the village code.
   Section 102.3 Application Of Other Codes. Amend by adding the following new
sections 102.3.1 and 102.3.2:
      Section 102.3.1 Electrical. All references within this code to the "ICC
electrical code" shall be changed to read, "national electrical code, 2020
edition (NFPA 70-2020), as prepared and published by the National Fire
Protection Association, Inc., and as amended by title 8, chapter 1, article E,
of the village code." The provisions of said electrical code, as amended, shall
apply to the installation, alteration, repair, and replacement of electrical
systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances
thereto.
      Section 102.3.2 Plumbing. All references within this code to the
"international plumbing code" shall be changed to read, "Illinois plumbing
code" as currently adopted, as sponsored and published by the Illinois
department of public health, and as amended by title 8, chapter 1, article F,
of the village code." The provisions of said plumbing code, as amended, shall
apply to the installation, alteration, repair and replacement of plumbing
systems, including appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances thereto.
   Section 104 Fees. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 107 Means Of Appeal. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 111.2 Closing Of Vacant Structures. Delete in its entirety and in
lieu thereof substitute the following new section 111.2:
      Section 111.2 Closing Of Vacant Structures. If a structure is vacant and
unfit for human habitation and occupancy, and is not in danger of structural
collapse, the code official is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on
the premises and order the structure closed up so as not to be an attractive
nuisance. Upon failure of the owner or lessor to close up the premises within
the time specified in the order, the code official shall cause the premises to
be closed through any available public agency or by contract or arrangement by
private persons and the cost thereof shall be charged against the real estate
upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
Any vacant structure closed up by the owner or lessor, or by a public or
private agency upon order of the code official, shall be deemed as a temporary
method in which to abate the nuisance which shall not exceed sixty (60) days in
duration. The code official may, in conjunction with the village attorney, seek
a demolition/repair order within the sixty (60) day time period and/or any time
thereof to require repairs or removal of the structure. All associated costs
plus administrative fees shall be charged as a lien upon such real estate.
   Section 111.4.1 Form. Delete section 111.4.1 in its entirety and in lieu
therefore substitute the following new section 111.4.1:
      Section 111.4.1: Be in writing, facsimile, or by electronic means.
   Section 111.4.2 Method of Service. Delete section 111.4.2.3 in its entirety
and in lieu therefore substitute the following new section 111.4.2.3:
      Section 111.4.2.3: A copy delivered; electronically, facsimile, text
message, email Section 111.7 Placarding. Delete in its entirety.
   Section R302 Exterior Property Areas Amend by adding the following section
302.10:
      Section 302.10 Outdoor Storage. Outdoor storage of materials and
equipment is prohibited except where specifically permitted in a zoning
district, or in Zoning Code, or where granted by ordinance as a special use.
Material and equipment prohibited from being stored outdoors includes rubbish
and garbage, construction and building materials, ice melting salt, soil or
land fill material, brush and limbs, logs and firewood, snow removal equipment,
landscaping equipment, construction equipment, furnishings and fixtures
intended for use within a building and similar items. The following items are
permitted to be stored outdoors when located in the rear yard and set back a
minimum distance of ten percent of the lot width, but not less than 6.5 feet,
from any property line; rubbish and garbage in approved refuse containers,
firewood not to exceed three face cords, outdoor cooking equipment,
recreational equipment, and construction equipment and materials required for a
current construction project.
   Section 304.14 Insect Screens. Insert: January 1, December 31. Section 308
Rubish and Garbage. Delete in its entirety.
   Section 602.3 Heat Supply. Insert January 1, December 31.
   Section 602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces. Insert 6:00 A.M., 11:30 P.M.
   (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2015-11, 3-5-2015; Ord. 2017-51, 9-21-
2017; Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1J-2: INSPECTIONS:
All buildings or structures within the scope of this article shall be subject
to inspection by the Village in accordance with and in the manner provided by
this article.
   A.   Authority: Inspection of premises and issuing of orders in connection
therewith under the provisions of this article shall be the responsibility of
the building official. The Village is hereby authorized to enter and inspect
any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, dormitory and surrounding premises
subject to the provisions of this article.
   B.   Request For Inspection: Any owner or lessor, renter or lessee, within
ten (10) to fifteen (15) days prior to letting a dwelling or dwelling unit to
the renter or lessee, may request the Village to inspect the dwelling or
dwelling unit and to record its condition and its approval or rejection, as the
condition may warrant.
   C.   Prima Facie Proof: In any subsequent proceeding in court by the owner
or lessor against the renter or lessee of a dwelling or dwelling unit for
negligent damage thereto, or by a renter or lessee against the owner or lessor
for breach of warranty of habitability, or for violation of this article, an
inspection, pursuant to subsection B of this section, shall be prima facie
evidence of the condition of the dwelling or dwelling unit at the time of
letting; provided, that the renter or lessee takes possession of the dwelling
or dwelling unit within seventy-two (72) hours of the Village's inspection made
pursuant to subsection B of this section.
   D.   Publication Of Inspection Information: The Village may collect, publish
and disseminate information to the public concerning techniques of maintenance,
repair and sanitation in housing and concerning the requirements of this
article. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1J-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Retaliatory Eviction By Owner: No owner or lessor shall evict or cause
to evict or terminate the tenancy of a renter or lessee solely as retaliation
because that renter or lessee complains to the Village or the Circuit Court
against the owner or lessor charging the owner or lessor with violation of this
article or with violation of any warranty of habitability accruing to the
renter or lessee from the owner or lessor.
   The fact that the rent or lease consideration of the renter or lessee is not
more than thirty (30) days delinquent at the time the owner or lessor gives
notice of eviction or termination of a lease or rental and the fact that,
within six (6) months prior to the notice of eviction or termination of the
lease or rental, the renter or lessee has not been convicted of creating a
nuisance at the dwelling or dwelling unit from which eviction is sought shall
be prima facie evidence that the eviction or termination of lease or rental by
the owner or lessor is solely retaliatory because that renter or lessee has
complained against the owner or lessor charging him with violation of this
article.
   Any person convicted of violation of this subsection shall be fined not less
than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
   B.   Criminal Housing Management: Criminal housing management is hereby
prohibited. A person commits criminal housing management when, having personal
management or control of residential real estate, whether as a legal or
equitable owner of the residential real estate or as a managing agent or
otherwise, he knowingly permits, by his gross carelessness or neglect, the
physical condition or facilities of the residential real estate to become or
remain so deteriorated that the health and safety of an inhabitant is
endangered.
   A person convicted of criminal housing management shall be fined not less
than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1J-4: DESIGNATION AS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION:
   A.   Placarding: Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to comply
with the notice provisions within the time given, the Code official shall post
on the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word
"Condemned" and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard.
   B.   Placard Removal: The Code official shall remove the condemnation
placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and
placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or
removes a condemnation placard without approval of the Code official shall be
subject to the penalties provided by this Code.
   Occupants may be relocated and, if necessary, reasonably housed for not more
than seven (7) days at the expense of the Village.
   All relocation and housing costs paid by the Village and incurred pursuant
to this section shall be reimbursed to the Village by either:
      1.   The owner or lessor of the dwelling designated unfit for human
habitation; provided, that the condition of the dwelling was caused in whole or
in substantial part by the neglect of the owner or lessor; or
      2.   By any occupant of the dwelling designated unfit for human
habitation; provided, that the condition of the dwelling was caused in whole or
in substantial part by the neglect of that occupant; or
      3.   The renter or lessee of the dwelling designated unfit for human
habitation; provided, that the condition of the dwelling was caused in whole or
in substantial part by the neglect of that renter or lessee; or
      4.   By the owner or lessor or the occupant or the renter or lessee,
jointly; provided, that each of those to be held jointly liable has caused by
his neglect, in whole or in substantial part, the condition of the dwelling
designated unfit for human habitation.
   If the owner or lessor is liable for reimbursement of all or any part of the
costs under this section, such costs shall constitute a lien against the
premises and shall be recoverable by the Village.
   C.   Damage To Or Removal Of Placard: No person shall deface or remove the
placard from any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit which has been
designated as unfit for human habitation and has been placarded as such.
   D.   Conditions For Reoccupancy Of Vacated Dwelling: No dwelling, dwelling
unit or rooming unit which has been designated as unfit for human habitation,
has been placarded as such and has been vacated shall be used again for human
habitation until all costs and expenses of relocation and housing of vacated
occupants shall be reimbursed to the Village, all defects have been repaired
and corrected and written approval is given from the Village and the placard is
removed by the Village. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1J-5: EFFECT AND ADOPTION OF STATE LAW PROVISIONS:
All additional remedies granted to the Village by the statutes of the State of
Illinois are hereby expressly incorporated by reference into and made a part of
this article. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1J-6: COMPLIANCE WITH VILLAGE AND STATE PROVISIONS:
All construction done and installations made to comply with the provisions of
this article shall be in accordance with the ordinances of the Village and
statutes of the State of Illinois regulating such construction and
installations. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1J-7: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the building official to enforce the provisions of this
article. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1J-8: APPEALS:
   A.   Housing Board Of Appeals:
      1.   Board Members: The Housing Board of Appeals shall consist of the
members of the Plan Commission of the Village.
      2.   Quorum: Four (4) members shall constitute a quorum, and all actions
of the Housing Board of Appeals must have the concurrence of at least a
majority of those members holding office.
      3.   Powers: The Housing Board of Appeals shall have the following
powers:
         a.   To make fact findings and to review fact findings of the Village;
provided, that fact findings of the Village shall be presumed to be correct
until rebutted by a clear preponderance of the evidence to the contrary.
         b.   To recommend the extension of any time allowance provided in this
article and to recommend variance from any provision of this article upon
application of an owner or lessor, renter or lessee, and upon presentation of
evidence of substantial economic hardship in cases where property and the
health and safety of persons are not endangered by physical injury or damage.
   B.   Right Of Appeal: Each owner/lessor and renter/lessee who is affected by
this article shall have the right to appeal from the decision of the Village
made pursuant to this article. All appeals shall be made to the Housing Board
of Appeals as hereinabove constituted and within ten (10) days after receipt of
notice of the decision of the Village.
   C.   Rules Of Procedure: The rules of procedure utilized during a hearing on
an appeal shall be such as to provide a fair and impartial hearing. In any
event, all evidence that is relevant and material and of probative value shall
be admitted. Hearsay evidence shall not support any decision of the Housing
Board of Appeals.
   D.   Action And Recommendations By The Housing Board Of Appeals: Action on
an appeal brought before the Housing Board of Appeals may be taken by a vote of
a majority of the members holding office. A member not present at any hearing
may vote upon certifying that he has read and considered the transcript of the
hearing proceedings held by the Housing Board of Appeals in his absence.
   Recommendations to the Corporate Authorities from the Housing Board of
Appeals shall be made within such time as may be set by the Chairman, but, in
any event, not later than ten (10) working days after receipt of the transcript
of proceedings.
   E.   Action By Corporate Authorities: Within thirty (30) days of the receipt
of the recommendations of the Housing Board of Appeals, the Corporate
Authorities shall grant or deny the time extension or variation, or refer the
matter back to the Housing Board of Appeals for further consideration. If the
Housing Board of Appeals favorably recommends the granting of a time extension
or variation, that time extension or variation may be granted by resolution by
a majority vote of the Corporate Authorities. If the Housing Board of Appeals
does not favorably recommend the granting of a time extension or variation,
that time extension or variation may be granted only by a favorable vote of
two-thirds (2/3) of the Corporate Authorities. The Corporate Authorities shall
not grant a time extension or variation unless they find that the facts
required by subsection A.3.a. of this section have been made. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-
13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
ARTICLE K. MINIMUM SECURITY CODE
SECTION:
8-1K-1: Purpose
8-1K-2: Scope Of Provisions
8-1K-3: Provisions Are Additional; Compliance Required
8-1K-4: Maintenance
8-1K-5: Alternate Materials And Methods Of Construction
8-1K-6: Tests
8-1K-7: Minimum Standards
8-1K-7-1: Commercial And Industrial Buildings
8-1K-7-2: Single-Family Dwellings
8-1K-7-3: Multiple Dwellings
8-1K-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide minimum standards to safeguard
property and public welfare by reducing the potential of successful crime
through regulating and controlling the design, construction, quality of
materials, use and maintenance of all buildings and structures within the
Village and certain equipment specifically regulated herein. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-
13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1K-2: SCOPE OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this article shall apply to the following:
   A.   All new construction.
   B.   All additions, alterations or repairs to any existing building or
structure in the business, industrial or multiple dwelling class.
   C.   The entire building or structure when additions, alterations or repairs
made within any twelve (12) month period exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
replacement value of the existing building or structure.
   D.   All multiple dwelling units existing on the effective date of this
title shall comply with the amortization provisions set forth in subsection
8-1K-7-3  G of this article, and comply with all other sections of this title
by May 31, 1995.
   E.   All zoning districts. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-
2-2023)
8-1K-3: PROVISIONS ARE ADDITIONAL; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The provisions of this article are in addition to all other applicable local,
state, or Federal laws and regulations. The owner or his/her agent shall be
responsible for compliance with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 2013-29,
6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1K-4: MAINTENANCE:
All devices or safeguards which are required by this article in a building when
erected, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good working order. The
owner or his/her agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of such devices
or safeguards. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1K-5: ALTERNATE MATERIALS AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION:
The provisions of this article are not intended to prevent the use of alternate
devices or methods of construction other than those prescribed; provided such
alternatives afford the same or greater degree of security, and they are
approved by the building official. The burden of proving that such alternative
meets or surpasses the provisions of this article shall be on the person
requesting its approval. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-
2023)
8-1K-6: TESTS:
Whenever there is sufficient evidence of noncompliance with the provisions of
this article, or evidence that any material or any construction does not
conform to the requirements of this article, or in order to substantiate claims
for alternate materials or methods of construction, the Village may require
tests as proof of compliance. These tests are to be made at the expense of the
owner by an approved agency. If there are no appropriate test methods specified
in this article, the building official shall determine the test procedure.
(Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1K-7: MINIMUM STANDARDS:
8-1K-7-1: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS:
   A.   Exterior Doors: Any building requiring panic proof hardware locks on
exit doors shall be exempt from the exterior door locking security.
      1.   A single door shall be secured with either a double cylinder or
single cylinder dead bolt with a turn piece, which does not require the use of
a key on the inside. Such locks shall have a minimum throw of one inch (1").
Any dead bolt must contain hardened materials to repel attempts at cutting
through the bolt.
   Exception: The authority having jurisdiction may allow the use of a keyed
turn piece based on the individual circumstance and full compliance with
adopted codes.
      2.   On pairs of doors, the active leaf (door) shall be secured with the
type of lock required for single doors in subsection A.1. of this section. The
inactive leaf shall be equipped with throw bolts or flush bolts at top and
bottom with a minimum throw of five-eighths inch (5/8"). The throw bolt must
contain hardened material.
      3.   All doors which require locking at top and bottom shall be secured
with throw bolts at both top and bottom with a minimum throw of five-eighths
inch (5/8"). The throw bolt must contain hardened material.
      4.   Cylinders shall be protected with cylinder guards.
      5.   Exterior sliding commercial entrances shall be secured as in
subsection A.1. of this section.
      6.   Jambs for all doors shall be constructed or protected so as to
prevent violation of the functions of the strike.
   B.   Accessible Windows:
      1.   If the window is the type to be opened, it shall be secured with a
locking mechanism.
      2.   Louvered windows, except those above the first story, shall not be
permitted unless provided with a locking mechanism.
   C.   Office Building (Multiple Occupancy): Each entrance door to each
individual office shall be considered to be an exterior door and shall be
protected as required in subsections A.1. through A.6. of this section.
   D.   Illumination:
      1.   Open parking lots and access thereto providing more than ten (10)
parking spaces shall be provided with a maintained minimum of four-tenths (0.4)
horizontal foot-candle of light on the parking surface from dusk until not less
than sixty (60) minutes after the closing for business of the last commercial
establishment serviced by such parking lot.
      2.   Parking and other non-enclosed areas under or within buildings shall
be provided with a maintained minimum of four-tenths (0.4) horizontal foot-
candle of light on the parking or walking surface from dusk until dawn.
      3.   All exterior doors, including front doors, shall have a minimum of a
one hundred (100) watt bulb, or equivalent lighting of four-tenths (0.4)
horizontal foot-candle, over the outside of the door. Such bulb shall be
protected with a clear polycarbonate cover or cover of equal breaking resistant
material and shall be illuminated during the period from sunset to sunrise. All
lighting shall be installed so as not to adversely affect surrounding
properties and be shielded where necessary.
   Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to the contrary, the building
official shall have final approval of all illumination and may alter the
regulations contained herein, including the times during which illumination is
to be provided, so as to lessen the impact on surrounding properties.
   E.   Numbering Buildings: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code
to the contrary, each individual commercial establishment shall have the
business name displayed on the building or part thereof occupied by said
business together with the correct address of the commercial establishment
located on all exterior doors thereof.
   Any person charged with violation of this subsection may, in lieu of
prosecution for a violation thereof, make payment in accordance with section
1-4-2  of this code. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2017-51, 9-21-2017;
Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1K-7-2: SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
   A.   Exterior Doors:
      1.   Exterior doors and doors leading from garage areas into private
dwellings shall be of solid core no less than one and three-fourths inch (1-3/
4") thickness.
      2.   Exterior doors and doors leading from garage areas into private
family dwellings shall be equipped with a dead bolt with a minimum one inch
(1") throw and deadlocking latch. Dead bolts shall contain hardened inserts.
   B.   Sliding Glass Doors:
      1.   Locks shall be provided on all single sliding glass doors. The lock
shall be operable from the inside, utilizing a thumb latch system. Mounting
screws for the lock case shall be inaccessible from the outside. Lock bolts
shall be of hardened steel material insert or bore and shall engage the strike
sufficiently to prevent its being disengaged by any possible movement of the
door within the space or clearances provided for installation and operation.
The strike area shall be reinforced to maintain effectiveness of bolt strength.
   C.   Window Protection:
      1.   Windows shall be so constructed that when the window is locked it
cannot be lifted from the frame.
      2.   Window locking devices shall be required on all windows capable of
being opened. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1K-7-3: MULTIPLE DWELLINGS:
   A.   Exterior Doors: Exterior doors and doors leading from garage areas into
multiple dwelling buildings and doors leading into stairwells, except in hotels
and motels, shall be equipped with self-closing devices, allowing egress to the
exterior of the building or into the garage area or stairwell, but requiring a
key to be used to gain access to the interior of the building from the outside
or garage area or stairwell. Approved intercom devices shall be in place which
allow good, clear communication between the occupant of any unit and the person
(s) requesting access to said building. Such devices shall also allow the
occupant to admit person(s) into said building without leaving the occupant's
unit. Systems currently in existence must be maintained in an operable
condition.
   B.   Police Department Emergency System: An approved key box system shall be
installed outside the security door of every multiple dwelling, or other
location approved by the police department.
   Exception: Hotels and motels.
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the rapid entry key system is to allow the
police department to gain immediate access to a building in emergency
situations without forcible entry.
      2.   Location: The installation of the approved key box shall be approved
by the police department.
      3.   Contents: The approved key box shall contain keys to gain necessary
access as required by the police department and shall be readily identifiable
for use by the police department only.
      4.   Alarms: At the request of the owner or lessee, the building official
shall permit him to install a key box tamper switch connected to the building's
alarm system.
   C.   Entrance Doors To Individual Units:
      1.   In hotels, motels and multiple-family dwellings, locks on entrance
doors to individual units shall have dead bolts with one inch (1") throw and
hardened steel inserts in addition to dead latches with one-half inch (1/2")
minimum throw. The locks shall be so constructed that both dead bolts and dead
latches can be retracted by a single action of the inside knob. Alternate
devices to equally resist illegal entry may be used if approved by the building
official.
      2.   All doors shall be of solid core with minimum thickness of one and
three-fourths inches (1-3/4") or fire rated doors when required by the building
code.
      3.   An interviewer or door scope shall be provided in each individual
unit entrance door.
      4.   In-swinging doors shall have rabbeted jambs.
      5.   Jambs for all doors shall be so constructed or protected as to
prevent violation of the function of the strike.
      6.   Cylinder guards shall be installed on all locks whenever the
cylinder projects beyond the face of the door, or is otherwise accessible to
gripping tools.
   D.   Sliding Glass Doors:
      1.   All single sliding patio doors shall have the movable section of the
door sliding on the inside of the fixed portion of the door.
      2.   Locks shall be provided on all single sliding patio doors. The lock
shall be operable from the inside utilizing a thumb latch system. Mounting
screws for the lock case shall be inaccessible from the outside. Lock bolts
shall be of hardened steel material insert or bore and shall engage the strike
sufficiently to prevent its being disengaged by any possible movement of the
door within the space or clearances provided for installation and operation.
The strike area shall be reinforced to maintain effectiveness of bolt strength.
   E.   Window Protection:
      1.   Windows shall be so constructed that when the window is locked it
cannot be lifted from the frame.
      2.   Window locking devices shall be required on all windows capable of
being opened.
   F.   Illumination: Entrances to more than one unit shall be illuminated
during the period from sunset to sunrise with at least the equivalent of a one
hundred (100) watt bulb. Such bulb shall be covered and protected by a clear
polycarbonate cover or cover of equal breaking resistant material.
      1.   Open parking lots and access thereto providing more than ten (10)
parking spaces shall be provided with a maintained minimum of four-tenths (0.4)
horizontal foot-candle of light on the parking surface from dusk until dawn.
      2.   Parking and other nonenclosed areas under or within buildings at
grade shall be provided with a maintained minimum of four- tenths (0.4)
horizontal foot-candle of light on the parking and walking surface from dusk
until dawn.
      3.   Sidewalks and walkways leading from parking lots to building or from
building to building shall be provided with a maintained minimum of four-tenths
(0.4) horizontal foot-candle of light on the walking surface from dusk to dawn.
   Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to the contrary, the building
official shall have final approval of all illumination and may alter the
regulations contained herein, including the times during which illumination is
to be provided, so as to lessen the impact on surrounding properties.
   G.   Amortization Provision: All uses of use group R-2 (whether legal, legal
nonconforming or illegal) existing on the effective date of ordinance 93-21,
passed 5-13-1993 shall be brought into conformity with sections F-518.0, F-
606.0, and the provisions of subsections A and B of this section in accordance
with the following timetable. The compliance times listed in table 8-1K-7-3G of
this section shall, for all purposes, be deemed an appropriate amortization
period for every such legal, legal nonconforming and illegal use presently
existing within the corporate limits of the village of Woodridge on the
effective date of ordinance 93-21, passed 5-13-1993 or thereafter located
therein by reason of annexation into the village of a lot or parcel on which
such use is located.
   Date Of Ordinance 93-21, passed 5-13-1993
Number Of Units Owned Improvements Compliance Time Limit (Months From And After
                      Effective
                                                     Improvements Compliance
Number Of Units Owned                                Time Limit (Months From
                                                     And After Effective
1 - 18
   A.   Fire alarm improvements                A.   18 months
   B.   Fire alarm tie ins                     B.   24 months
   C.   Emergency and exit lights              C.   12 months
   D.   Security doors with intercoms and Knox D.   24 months
   E.   Knox boxes (if security doors already eE.   8 months
   F.   Unit entrance door locks               F.   12 months
19 - 400
   A.   Fire alarm improvements                A.   36 months
   B.   Fire alarm tie ins                     B.   42 months
   C.   Emergency and exit lights              C.   18 months
   D.   Security doors with intercoms and Knox D.   30 months
   E.   Knox boxes (if security doors already eE.   12 months   
   F.   Unit entrance door locks               F.   18 months
401 and over
   A.   Fire alarm improvements                A.   48 months
   B.   Fire alarm tie ins                     B.   60 months
   C.   Emergency and exit lights              C.   24 months
   D.   Security doors with intercoms and Knox D.   54 months
   E.   Knox boxes (if security doors already eE.   18 months
   F.   Unit entrance door locks               F.   24 months
 
(Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
ARTICLE L. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1L-1: Countywide Stormwater And Floodplain Ordinance Adopted
8-1L-2: Amendments To Countywide Stormwater And Floodplain Ordinance
8-1L-3: Appeals To Countywide Stormwater And Floodplain Ordinance Decisions
8-1L-4: Illicit Discharge Detection And Elimination
8-1L-5: General Certifications For The Countywide Stormwater And Floodplain
Ordinance
8-1L-6: Adoption Of Flood Insurance Study And Flood Insurance Rate Maps
8-1L-1: COUNTYWIDE STORMWATER AND FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out herein, that certain
document entitled "DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance, September 2022", as adopted and published by the County of DuPage,
State of Illinois, together with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes hereinafter set forth, three (3) copies of which have been on file for
a period of more than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date hereof and
now are on file in the Office of the Village Clerk. (Ord. 2009-68, 12-17-2009;
amd. Ord. 2012-40, 7-26-2012; Ord. 2013-31, 6-27-2013; Ord. 2019-31, 6-6-2019;
Ord. 2023-6, 2-2-2023)
8-1L-2: AMENDMENTS TO COUNTYWIDE STORMWATER AND FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE:
The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes are hereby made to
the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance:
Section 15-55: Amend by adding thereto the following language:
"15-55.E: Following the final approval by the village of Woodridge of the
native vegetation plantings and storm water basin from the developer, the storm
water basin native vegetation will be maintained by the property owners'
association according to approved management practices. The village of
Woodridge may request that a comprehensive report be done by a professional to
determine the condition of the native vegetation planting in the storm water
basin if it is not clear whether there is adequate vegetation per the native
vegetation management plan provided by the developer. All storm water pipes and
appurtenances related to the storm water basin that are deemed to be the
responsibility of the party responsible for storm water basin management will
be maintained appropriately.
15-55.F: The following are the approved management practices:
15-55.F.1 Prescribed burning will be performed every one to three years for
established native prairie plantings. Burning requires a permit from Illinois
EPA and notification of the local fire district and the village of Woodridge.
15-55.F.2 Late fall or early winter mowing to a height of six to twelve inches,
with removal of hay, will be performed in alternate years where burning is not
practical or conditions are not conducive to burning.
15-55.F.3 Application of herbicide to control invasive species will be
necessary if burning does not control or eliminate said invasive species. A
certified and licensed pesticide applicator will select herbicide, which is
non- toxic to animal and aquatic life, and will apply the herbicide by the
appropriate method to prevent killing of desirable native species."
Section 15-72: Amend by adding thereto the following additional language:
"15-72.H: Storage facilities shall not be located on public or private streets.
15-72.I: Storage depths in parking lots shall not exceed one foot (1') and no
storage shall be allowed in required fire lanes, aisles, or access routes."
Section 15-80.F: Amend by deleting the language "one foot of freeboard." and in
lieu thereof, the following language shall be substituted:
... "two feet of freeboard." ...
Section 15-97: Amend by adding a new subsection 15-97.D as follows:
"15-97.D: The village previously adopted its own site runoff storage fee-in-
lieu program, pursuant to ordinance 2009-68, and hereby reaffirms such program,
the terms and conditions of which are the same as set forth in section 15-97.B,
except that the funds shall be payable to the village of Woodridge."
Section 15-98: Amend by adding a new subsection 15-98.D as follows:
"15-98.D: The village previously adopted its own BMP fee-in- lieu program,
pursuant to ordinance 2009-68, and hereby reaffirms such program, the terms and
conditions of which are the same as set forth in section 15-98.B, except that
funds shall be payable to the village of Woodridge."
Section 15-114: Amend by deleting all references to the language "committee or
the oversight committee" and "committee" contained therein in its entirety and
in lieu thereof insert the following language:
... "plan commission" ...
Section 15-114: Amend by deleting all references to the language "county board"
contained therein in its entirety and in lieu thereof insert the following
language:
... "village of Woodridge mayor and board of trustees" ...
Appendix A, Definitions: Amend flood protection elevation (FPE) by deleting the
language "one foot of freeboard." and in lieu thereof, the following language
shall be substituted:
... "two feet of freeboard." ...
(Ord. 2012-40, 7-26-2012)
8-1L-3: APPEALS TO COUNTYWIDE STORMWATER AND FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE DECISIONS:
Appeals of any decision of the stormwater administrator shall follow the
process described in the countywide stormwater and floodplain ordinance, as
amended, and shall not follow the general appeals process contained in this
code. (Ord. 2007-54, 9-20-2007)
8-1L-4: ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION:
   A.   Authority And Purpose: This section shall be known, and may be cited,
as the VILLAGE OF WOODRIDGE ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION
ORDINANCE. This section is promulgated pursuant to the village's authority to
adopt ordinances regulating the quality of all stormwater runoff channels,
streams, and basins within its corporate limits, in accordance with the adopted
DuPage County stormwater management plan.
The purposes of this section are as follows:
      1.   To ensure the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of
village, and protect and enhance water quality in a manner pursuant to and
consistent with the federal water pollution control act (33 USC section 1251 et
seq.) through the regulation of nonstormwater discharges to the storm drainage
system. This section establishes methods for controlling the introduction of
discharges other than those occurring as a direct result of precipitation and/
or snowmelt into the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) and the storm
drainage system in order to comply with requirements of the national pollutant
discharge elimination system (NPDES) phase II permit process.
      2.   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 and the storm
drainage system by nonstormwater discharges.
      3.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4 and the
storm drainage system.
      4.   The purposes of this section are consistent with the plan and
advance the following objectives of the plan:
         a.   Protect and enhance the quality, quantity, and availability of
surface and ground water resources.
         b.   Preserve and enhance existing aquatic and riparian environments
and encourage restoration of degraded areas.
         c.   Promote equitable, acceptable, and legal measures for stormwater
management.
   B.   Rules Of Construction: For the purposes of this section, the terms and
words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
      1.   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; and
      2.   Words used in the singular number include the plural number and
words used in the plural number include the singular number; and
      3.   The words "shall", "will", and "must" are mandatory, not permissive;
and
      4.   The phrase "administrator" refers to the individual responsible for
the enforcement. (Ord. 2009-69, 12-17-2009)
   C.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings set forth except where otherwise specifically
indicated. Words and terms not defined shall have the meanings indicated by
common dictionary definition.
ADMINISTRATOR: The director of public works or his/her designee.
BUILDING: A structure that is constructed or erected partially or wholly
aboveground and is enclosed by walls and a roof. The term "building" includes
manufactured homes and includes both the aboveground and the belowground
portions of the structure.
CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA): The federal water pollution control act (33 USC section
1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
COMMITTEE: The plan commission of the village.
COUNTY: The counties of DuPage, Cook, and Will, Illinois.
DEPARTMENT: The department of public works of the village.
DRAIN: Piping and appurtenances for conveying a fluid.
FACILITY: Something that is built, installed, or established to serve a
particular purpose.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material which may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial hazard to human health, safety, property, or the environment.
ILLICIT CONNECTIONS: An illicit connection is defined as either of the
following:
      1.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface that
allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drainage system including, but
not limited to, any conveyances that allow any nonstormwater discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm
drainage system and any connections to the storm drainage system from indoor
drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been
previously allowed, permitted, or approved by the village, or
      2.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drainage system that has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by the village.
ILLICIT DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the storm
drainage system, except as exempted in subsection F3 of this section.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Activities subject to an industrial NPDES stormwater
permit, as defined in 40 CFR section 122.26(b)(14).
LINE: A hollow conduit through which fluids are transported between two (2) or
more points.
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): A conveyance or system of
conveyances (including, but not limited to, sidewalks, roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade
channels, and storm sewers) owned or operated by a governmental entity and
designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater, and that is not used
for collecting or conveying sewage.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT: A permit issued
by Illinois environmental protection agency (IEPA) that authorizes the
discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is
applicable on an individual, group, or general areawide basis.
NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drainage system that is not
the direct result of precipitation and/or snowmelt in the tributary drainage
basin.
NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI): Illinois environmental protection agency notice of
intent to participate in coverage under the general permit to discharge
stormwater associated with industrial activity.
PARCEL: Contiguous land under single ownership or control.
PERSON: Any individual, association, partnership, public or private
corporation, municipality, political subdivision, government agency, or any
other legal entity, including heirs, successors, agents, officers, and assigns
of such entity.
pH NEUTRAL: pH value between 6.5 and 9.0 standard units.
PLAN: The DuPage County stormwater management plan, adopted by the village in
1992, as amended from time to time.
POLLUTANT: Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, and
accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables;
pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes;
sewage, wastewater, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate
metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a
building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
RUNOFF: The waters derived from precipitation and/or melting snow within a
tributary drainage basin that exceeds the infiltration capacity of that basin.
SEWAGE: Polluted stormwater, wastewater, or other refuse liquids usually
conveyed by sewers.
SEWER: An artificial conduit to carry off sewage and/or surface water (as from
rainfall), including sanitation, stormwater, and/or combined sewers.
SEWERAGE: A system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation, pumping, and treatment of sewage.
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: A facility by which stormwater is collected and/or
conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems,
municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and humanmade or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage from any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
STRUCTURE: Anything that is erected or constructed. The term "structure"
includes, without limitation: buildings, manufactured homes, tanks, dams,
sewers, constructed channels, outfalls, parking lots, driveways, roads,
sidewalks, and concrete patios.
WASTEWATER: Water that has been used and is not for reuse unless treated by a
wastewater treatment facility.
WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES: As defined in the CWA, "waters of the United
States" applies only to surface waters, rivers, lakes, estuaries, coastal
waters, and wetlands. Not all surface waters are legally "waters of the United
States". Generally, those waters include the following:
      1.   All interstate waters;
      2.   Intrastate waters used in interstate and/or foreign commerce;
      3.   Tributaries of the above;
      4.   Territorial seas at the cyclical high tide mark; and
      5.   Wetlands adjacent to all the above. (Ord. 2009-69, 12-17-2009; amd.
Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-2010)
   D.   Applicability: This section shall apply to all water entering the storm
drainage system from any developed or undeveloped lands within the jurisdiction
of the department, unless explicitly exempted by subsection F3 of this section.
   E.   Interpretation: The provisions of this section shall be held to be the
minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, prosperity, and general welfare and the environment of the
residents of the village, and to effectuate the purposes of this section and
enabling legislation.
Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this section are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
applicable statute, law, ordinance, regulation, or rule, the provision that is
most restrictive or imposes the higher standards or requirements shall apply.
The provisions of this section shall be interpreted to be cumulative of, and to
impose limitations in addition to, all other ordinances, laws, codes, and
regulations, in existence or which may be passed governing any subject matter
of this section. To the greatest extent possible, the provisions of this
section shall be construed to be consistent with, and not in conflict with, the
provisions of such other ordinances, laws, codes, and regulations, and with
each other, to the end that all such provisions may be given their fullest
application.
   F.   Prohibition Of Illicit Discharges:
      1.   No person shall place, drain, or otherwise discharge, cause, or
allow others under their control to place, drain, or otherwise discharge into
the storm drainage system or MS4 any pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants, other than normal stormwater unless specifically exempted in
subsection F3 of this section.
      2.   The following discharges into the MS4 or the storm drainage system
shall be prohibited:
         a.   Discharges that are not a direct result of precipitation and/or
snowmelt within the drainage area of the MS4.
         b.   Discharges from an illicit connection.
      3.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established herein provided they do not cause an adverse effect on water
quality as determined by the administrator:
         a.   Discharges caused by governmental public works and stormwater
management units as part of their standard operations in compliance with all
applicable regulations.
         b.   Discharges required by law or authorized by permit, including any
nonstormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste
discharge order issued to the discharger and administered by the USEPA and/or
IEPA.
         c.   Water line and fire hydrant flushing.
         d.   Landscape irrigation water.
         e.   Rising groundwaters.
         f.   Groundwater infiltration.
         g.   Pumped groundwater.
         h.   Discharges from potable water sources.
         i.   Foundation drains.
         j.   Air conditioning condensate.
         k.   Irrigation water (except for wastewater irrigation).
         l.   Springs.
         m.   Water from crawl space pumps.
         n.   Footing drains.
         o.   Storm sewer cleaning water.
         p.   Water from individual residential car washing, car washing
associated with fundraising for community and charitable organizations, and car
washing from car dealerships.
         q.   Routine external building washdown which does not use detergents.
         r.   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands.
         s.   Dechlorinated pH neutral swimming pool discharges.
         t.   Residual street wash water.
         u.   Discharges or flows from firefighting activities.
         v.   Dechlorinated water reservoir discharges.
         w.   Pavement wash waters where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred (unless all spilled material has been removed).
         x.   Discharges associated with dye testing of water line, sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, private drains or septic systems; however, this activity
shall not take place until the discharger, or tester, has provided notification
to the department at least two (2) full business days prior to the test date,
unless an emergency situation does not allow time for such notification.
         y.   Other discharges approved by the department as being
substantially like any of the discharge types enumerated in this subsection F.
   G.   Prohibition Of Illicit Connections:
      1.   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drainage system or MS4 is prohibited.
      2.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      3.   A person is considered to be in violation of this section if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the storm drainage system or MS4, or
allows such a connection to continue.
      4.   Connections in violation of this section must be disconnected and
redirected, if necessary, to an approved wastewater management system or the
sanitary sewer system upon approval of the department and the appropriate
sanitary treatment facility.
      5.   Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system or MS4,
shall be located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of
written notice of violation from the department requiring that such locating be
completed. Such notice shall specify a reasonable time period within which the
location of the drain or conveyance is to be determined, that the drain or
conveyance be identified as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the
outfall location or point of connection to the storm sewer system, MS4,
sanitary sewer system, or other discharge point be identified. Results of these
investigations are to be documented and provided to the department.
   H.   Industrial Activity Discharges: Submission of notice of intent (NOI) to
the department.
      1.   Any person operating a facility subject to the IEPA's general permit
to discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity shall submit a copy
of the notice of intent (NOI) to the department at the same time the operator
submits the original notice of intent to the IEPA as applicable.
      2.   The copy of the notice of intent may be delivered to the department
either in person or by mailing it to:
Notice of Intent to Discharge Stormwater
Village Engineer
Department of Public Works
One Plaza Drive
Woodridge, IL 60517
      3.   A person commits an offense if the person operates a facility that
is discharging stormwater associated with industrial activity without having
submitted a copy of the notice of intent to do so to the department.
   I.   Compliance Monitoring: Notification of spills:
      1.   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
owning, leasing or exercising control over a property, or responsible for
emergency response for a property, has information of any known or suspected
spill of materials which are resulting or may result in illicit discharges or
pollutants discharging into the MS4 or the storm drainage system, said person
shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and
cleanup of such spill.
         a.   In the event of such a spill, said person shall immediately
notify local emergency dispatch services and act in accordance with Illinois
emergency management agency (IEMA) and IEPA regulations.
         b.   Said person shall notify the department of the spill in person or
by phone, facsimile, or e-mail no later than the next business day.
Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the department within three (3) business days of the
phone notice.
         c.   If the spill emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an
on site written record of the spill and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least five (5) years.
      2.   Proper notice, including containment and cleanup as outlined above
shall exempt the notifying parties from applicable fines.
      3.   Failure to provide notification of a spill as provided above is a
violation of this section.
      4.   Additionally, the person owning, leasing, or exercising control of a
property shall indemnify any county and/or municipality on the line of the
spill for any contamination or harm caused to a user of the storm sewer system.
   J.   Violations, Enforcement, And Penalties: The administrator shall have
primary responsibility for the enforcement of the provisions of this section.
The village may enter into agreements with other governmental units for the
purpose of implementing this section.
      1.   Violations: A person violates this section when that person:
         a.   Performs any act expressly prohibited by any provision of this
section; or
         b.   Disobeys, neglects, or fails to carry out or comply with any
provision of this section or of any order or notice issued by the
administrator; or
         c.   Allows any condition or act that violates any provision of this
section to continue unabated on property owned, leased, managed, or under the
control of such person; or
         d.   Directs, orders, permits, or allows a second person to do any act
expressly prohibited by any provision of this section, or to maintain or
continue unabated any condition or act that violates any provision of this
section on property owned, leased, managed or under the control of the first
person.
      2.   Notice To Correct Violations: The administrator may issue a notice
of violation ordering a person to take action to achieve compliance with the
provisions of this section and/or to cease and desist from any action conducted
in violation of this section. Failure to comply with the terms and conditions
of a notice of violation and order to comply shall constitute a violation of
this section.
         a.   The administrator shall set forth the form and content of any
notices issued under this section.
         b.   The administrator may issue a warning of violation ordering a
person to take action to achieve compliance with the provisions of this
section. If a person fails to comply with the terms and conditions of a
warning, the administrator may, thereafter, issue a notice of violation.
      3.   Authorizing Legal Proceedings: If a person fails to comply with an
order issued under this section, the administrator may direct the appropriate
legal counsel to commence any legal proceeding authorized by this section,
under the law or equity, necessary to enforce any provision of this section
and/or to protect public health and safety. Any legal action brought under this
section shall be in the name of the village.
      4.   Emergency Orders: The department may obtain an emergency order in
the event of the following:
         a.   Any person has violated, or continues to violate, any provision
of this section or any order issued hereunder, or that the person's past
violations are likely to recur; and
         b.   That the person's violation has caused or contributed to an
actual or threatened discharge to the MS4 or storm drainage system and an
imminent threat of violation is present.
The department may issue the emergency order to the violator directing that the
violator:
         a.   Immediately cease and desist all such violations;
         b.   Immediately comply with all requirements of this section; and
         c.   Take such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including immediately
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
Any person notified of an emergency order under this subsection shall
immediately comply and stop or eliminate its endangering discharge. In the
event of a discharger's failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the
emergency order, the department may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize harm to the MS4, storm drainage system, or waters of the
United States and/or endangerment to persons or to the environment, including
immediate termination of a facility's water supply, sewer connection, or other
municipal utility services. The department may allow the person to recommence
its discharge when it has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the department
that the period of endangerment has passed, unless further termination
proceedings are initiated against the discharger under this section. A person
that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge presenting imminent
endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement, describing the causes
of the harmful discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future
occurrence, to the department within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the
emergency order. Issuance of an emergency cease and desist order shall not be a
bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
violator.
      5.   Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance: Any condition caused or
permitted to exist in violation of any provision of this section shall
constitute a threat to public health and safety and is declared and deemed a
public nuisance.
Whenever a nuisance shall be found to exist on any premises, the administrator
may order such nuisance to be abated upon determination that the nuisance
constitutes a threat to public health or safety.
         a.   In the event of an emergency situation, as determined by the
administrator, involving an immediate threat to public health and safety, the
administrator may direct legal counsel to immediately commence any legal or
equitable proceeding necessary to restrain, abate, and/or remedy said
situation. The administrator may take such action without having to first issue
a notice of violation to the person(s) having control of, or acting as agent
for, such premises where the nuisance is located, or waiting for such person(s)
to abate or remove such nuisance as previously ordered by the administrator.
         b.   In all other cases, the administrator may notify, in writing, the
person(s) having control of, or acting as agent for, such premises where the
nuisance is located and directing such person(s) to abate or remove such
nuisance within such time as is stated on the notice. Upon the failure or
refusal of such person(s) to comply with the notice, the administrator may
direct that appropriate proceeding commence to compel the abatement, or
removal, of such a nuisance in any manner allowed by law, equity, or this
section and/or authorizing the department to act to abate, or remove, such
nuisance. The person(s) having control of such premises, in addition to the
other remedies provided by this section, shall be liable to the department for
any costs incurred by the department to effect such abatement, or removal,
including reasonable attorney fees and other costs of enforcement, to be
recovered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      6.   Fines: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a petty offense. Such violation shall be punishable by a fine of not
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) each day, or any portion of a
day, during which such violation is committed, continued, or permitted shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
      7.   Remedies Not Exclusive: The remedies listed in this subsection are
not exclusive of any other remedy available under this section or under any
applicable Federal, State, or local law and do not supersede or limit, any and
all other penalties provided by law. The Administrator may seek, at his
discretion, cumulative remedies.
   K.   Suspension Of MS4 Access:
      1.   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this section may
have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an
illicit discharge. The department shall notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the department for a
reconsideration and hearing. A person commits an offense if the person
reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this section, without
the prior approval of the department.
      2.   In emergency situations, the department may, without prior notice,
suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge, which presents or may present imminent
and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of
persons, or to the MS4, storm drainage system, or waters of the United States.
If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency,
the department may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize
damage to the MS4, storm drainage system, or waters of the United States, or to
minimize danger to public health and safety. The department shall obtain an
emergency court order authorizing such termination.
   L.   Appeals: Appeals of any decision of the Administrator shall follow the
process described in section
8-1L-3 of this article. If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the
requirements set forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an
appeal, within seven (7) days of the decision of the Administrator or Plan
Commission or Village Board upholding the decision of the department, then
representatives of the department are authorized to take any and all measures
necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. In no case shall
an appeal stay or bar the department from commencing a legal action seeking
emergency relief.
   M.   Miscellaneous Provisions:
      1.   Severability: The provisions of this section are hereby declared to
be severable. If any provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this section
or the application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall
be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or
application of this section.
      2.   Ultimate Responsibility: The standards set forth herein and
promulgated pursuant to this section are minimum standards; therefore, this
section does not intend or imply that compliance by any person will ensure that
there will be no contamination, pollution, or unauthorized discharge of
pollutants. (Ord. 2009-69, 12-17-2009)
8-1L-5: GENERAL CERTIFICATIONS FOR THE COUNTYWIDE STORMWATER AND FLOODPLAIN
ORDINANCE:
There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out herein, that certain
ordinance known as DuPage County Ordinance OSM-002-12 entitled "General
Certifications for Chapter 15 of the DuPage County Code DuPage County
Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance" adopted on April 24, 2012, and
published by the County of DuPage, State of Illinois, three (3) copies of which
have been on file for a period of more than thirty (30) days prior to the
effective date hereof and now are on file in the Office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2012-40, 7-26-2012)
8-1L-6: ADOPTION OF FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY AND FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS:
   A.   The Village of Woodridge has adopted the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance and the standards contained therein are
applied to all properties and activities within the Village's corporate limits
for which it has jurisdiction, and all properties for those parts of
unincorporated Cook, DuPage, and Will Counties that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village that may be annexed into the
Village, regardless of whether such property and activity falls within DuPage
County, Will County, or Cook County.
      1.   Will County: Pursuant to the adoption of Ordinance 18-305 by the
Will County Board amending chapter 55, of the Stormwater Management Ordinance;
the Village of Woodridge hereby adopts the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRMs) for Will County dated February 15, 2019,
including panel number(s) 17197C0052G, 17197C0054G, 17197C0056G, 17197C0058G,
17197C0062G, and 17197C0070G.
      2.   Cook County: The Village of Woodridge hereby adopts the Flood
Insurance Study (FIS) and Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRMs) for Cook County
dated August 19, 2008, including panel number(s) 170310567J and 17031C0586J.
(Ord. 2018-57, 12-20-2018)
      3.   DuPage County: Pursuant to the adoption of Ordinance SM-O-0028-19 by
the DuPage County Board amending chapter 15 of the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance; the Village of Woodridge hereby adopts the
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRMs) for DuPage
County dated August 1, 2019, including panel number(s) 0164, 0168, 0252, 0256,
0257, 0259, and 0267.
      4.   Applicable Studies And/Or Maps: Whenever a revised Flood Insurance
Study (FIS) and/or revised Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) that has been
approved by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), is formally adopted
by the County having jurisdiction over said FIS and FIRM, the Village shall
have been considered to have automatically adopted the FIS and FIRMs that are
applicable to the Village of Woodridge. (Ord. 2019-31, 6-6-2019)
ARTICLE M. PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS
SECTION:
8-1M-1: Code Adopted
8-1M-1: CODE ADOPTED:
Code Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out herein
that certain Code known as the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2021,
as prepared and published by the International Code Council, Inc., together
with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set forth,
one (1) copy of which has been for a period of more than thirty (30) days prior
to the effective date hereof and now is on file in the Office of the Village
Clerk. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2017-51, 9-21-2017; Ord. 2023-36,
11-2-2023)
ARTICLE N. CONNECTION OF SUMP PUMPS, DOWNSPOUTS AND UNDERDRAINS TO STORM SEWER
SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-1N-1: Connection Permitted
8-1N-2: Criteria For The Issuance Of A Permit
8-1N-3: Conditions Of Permit
8-1N-1: CONNECTION PERMITTED:
A sump pump, downspout or drainage underdrain located on private property may
be connected to the village's storm sewer system under the terms and conditions
set forth in this article. No such connection shall be made without a permit
issued by the village. An application for a permit shall be obtained from the
community development department. The fee for such permit shall be as provided
for in title 3 of this code. (Ord. 2009-48, 10-15-2009; amd. Ord. 2010-29, 5-
20-2010; Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1N-2: CRITERIA FOR THE ISSUANCE OF A PERMIT:
The following criteria must be met in order for the village to issue a permit
for such connection:
   A.   The village must verify that the sump pump, downspout, or drainage
underdrain causes ponding of water on the private property of two inches (2")
or greater and/or causes icing of a public sidewalk or pavement. Such ponding
and/or ice must be present for more than forty-eight (48) hours following the
cessation of rain.
   B.   The village, in its sole discretion, must determine that connection to
the storm sewer system is the only method available to eliminate the ponding
and/or icing, and that relocation of the sump pump, downspout, or drainage
underdrain to allow outfall over the natural grade, or parkway grading, lot
grading or cleaning, ditch reshaping, redirection of outfall, a change in
method of dispersion, or other measures are not possible. (Ord. 2009-48, 10-15-
2009; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
8-1N-3: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
The issuance of a connection permit hereunder is subject to the following
conditions:
   A.   An existing storm sewer must be located in the right of way or easement
adjacent to the property along the entire frontage of the property.
   B.   Sump pump and downspout discharge lines shall be designed in compliance
with the minimum standards provided by the public works department. A rigid
four inch (4") diameter PVC (SDR 26 or schedule 40) may be used to drain the
individual underdrain into the storm sewer.
   C.   All costs associated with the connection to the storm sewer will be
paid for by the property owner.
   D.   The property owner shall be responsible for all pipes, lines and drains
up to and including the connection to the village's storm sewer system.
   E.   The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly result from the connection to the storm sewer system and
shall execute an indemnification letter in such form as the village requires.
   F.   The actual connection shall be made by the property owner or his
contractor, but only under the supervision of the village engineer or his
representative. The applicant shall notify the village engineer when the
connection is ready to be made. The village engineer shall be given a minimum
of twenty-four (24) hours' prior notice of any such work. (Ord. 2009-48, 10-15-
2009; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 11-2-2023)
CHAPTER 2
CONDOMINIUM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Title
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Property Report
8-2-4: Certificate Of Inspection; Fees
8-2-5: Warranties
8-2-6: Contract Restrictions
8-2-7: Additional Obligations Of Developer
8-2-8: Existing Tenants In Condominium Conversions
8-2-9: Discriminatory Practices Prohibited
8-2-10: Rental Arrangements For Condominium Projects
8-2-11: Exemptions From Various Provisions
8-2-12: Enforcement And Penalties
8-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be entitled CONDOMINIUM REGULATIONS OF THE VILLAGE OF
WOODRIDGE. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
ACT: The Illinois condominium act as set forth in 765 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 605/1 et seq., as amended.
AGENT: Any person, firm, partnership, association, joint venture, corporation
or any other entity or combination of entities who represents or acts for or on
behalf of a developer in selling or offering for sale any condominium unit,
excepting therefrom, an escrow officer acting on behalf of a title company.
BOARD OF MANAGERS: The board of managers described in the act.
CLOSING OF SALE: The operation of transferring ownership of a condominium unit
and a proportionate share of the common elements to a prospective purchaser
from the developer thereof, and the same shall include the transfer of said
property through a deed of conveyance, articles of agreement for warranty deed
or the transfer of the beneficial interest in a land trust.
CODES: All community development ordinances, rules and regulations of the
village, as amended, including, but not by way of limitation, those pertaining
to the physical structure of buildings, plumbing, heating, electrical and
cooling installations and elevators and off street parking facilities,
landscaping and amenities such as swimming pools, tennis courts and other
amenities.
COMMON ELEMENTS:
   A.   Common Elements: All portions of the property except the condominium
units, including limited common elements unless otherwise specified.
   B.   Limited Common Elements: A portion of the common elements so designated
in the declaration as being reserved for the use of a certain condominium unit
or units to the exclusion of other condominium units, including, but not
limited to, balconies, terraces, patios and parking spaces or facilities.
CONDOMINIUM: A form of property established pursuant to the act.
CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION: A property which contains structures, excepting those
newly constructed and intended for condominium ownership, which are, or have
previously been, wholly or partially occupied before recording of condominium
instruments by persons other than those who have contracted for the purchase of
condominium units.
CONDOMINIUM PROJECT: A plan by a developer to sell, or the sale of "property"
as herein defined, whether through conversion and submission to condominium
status or by initial submission of property to condominium status under the
provisions of the act.
CONDOMINIUM UNIT: A part of the property designed and intended for any type of
independent use.
DECLARATION: The instrument by which the property is submitted to the
provisions of the act.
DEVELOPER: Any person who submits property legally or equitably owned by him to
the provisions of the act, or any person who offers condominium units legally
or equitably owned by him for sale in the ordinary course of his business,
including any successor or successors to such developer's entire interest in
the property, other than the purchaser of an individual condominium unit.
ENCUMBRANCE: A trust deed, mortgage, judgment or other item of encumbrance,
including an option or contract to sell, affecting a condominium, including any
lien or other encumbrance arising as a result of the imposition of any tax
assessment by a public authority.
OFFERING: Any inducement, solicitation, advertisement, publication or
announcement to the general public to encourage any person to acquire a
condominium unit or a prospective condominium unit.
PERSON: A natural person, corporation, trustee, partnership or other legal
entity or any combination thereof which is capable of holding title to real
property.
PLAT: A plat of plats or survey of the parcel and of all condominium units in
the property submitted to the provisions of the act which may consist of a
three-dimensional horizontal and vertical delineation of all such condominium
units.
PROPERTY: All the land, property and space comprising the parcel, all
improvements and structures erected, constructed or contained therein or
thereon, including the building and all easements, rights and appurtenances
belonging thereto, and all fixtures and equipment intended for the mutual use,
benefit or enjoyment of the unit owners submitted to the provisions of the act.
PROPERTY REPORT: The property report required by subsection
8-2-3A of this chapter.
PROSPECTIVE PURCHASER: Any person who requests the "property report" as defined
herein or who visits the condominium project site for the purpose of inspection
for possible purchase.
PURCHASER: Any person or persons, other than the developer, who purchase a unit
in a bona fide transaction for value.
SALE: The act of soliciting, advertising or offering for sale a "condominium
unit" or units as hereinbefore defined.
SITE: Any land on which a condominium or any part thereof is located.
UNIT OWNER: The person or persons whose estates or interests, individually or
collectively, aggregate fee simple absolute ownership of a condominium unit.
UNIT OWNERS' ASSOCIATION OR ASSOCIATION: The association of all the unit owners
acting pursuant to bylaws through its duly elected board of managers.
VILLAGE: The village of Woodridge, DuPage, Will and Cook Counties, Illinois.
(Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013)
8-2-3: PROPERTY REPORT:
   A.   Property Report Required; Contents: Prior to offering any condominium
unit in a condominium project for sale, the developer shall prepare a property
report and shall certify by affidavit that all disclosures contained therein
are true to the best of the developer's knowledge and belief. The report shall
contain, but not by way of limitation, the following information:
      1.   A statement indicating the name and address of the developer and
owner including, but not by way of limitation, all partners of a partnership,
all officers and directors of a corporation and all beneficiaries of a trust,
and shall further include the following information:
         a.   A statement disclosing persons holding a financial interest in
the offering except stockholders and corporations which are subject to and have
complied with the registration requirements of the federal securities law.
         b.   A statement disclosing all professionals or professional firms
involved in the condominium project including, but not by way of limitation,
architects, contractors, attorneys, engineers, accountants and the principal
sales and management agents.
      2.   A description of the condominium project which shall include the
following:
         a.   A map or plat showing the size and dimension of the condominium
project together with all improvements thereon and including the following:
            (1)   A description of the condominium units offered for sale and
the nature and extent of individual ownership in such condominium units;
            (2)   A description of the nature and the extent of ownership of
all common elements and limited common elements;
            (3)   A description of the nature and ownership of all property and
facilities on the site which are not included as part of the condominium
project;
            (4)   A description of all existing and proposed facilities
including, but not by way of limitation, recreational facilities within the
condominium project;
            (5)   The location, nature and ownership of all existing and
proposed streets, parking facilities and roads through and contiguous to the
site, as well as all existing and proposed easements on, through or contiguous
to the site;
            (6)   All drawings, architectural plans and other suitable
documents depicting the necessary information for location, maintenance and
repair of all condominium property.
Such items shall be incorporated in the property report by reference, and shall
be located at the sales office of the developer or his agent, and shall be
transferred to the association upon the transfer of control by the developer.
         b.   Projected commencement and completion dates for any proposed
construction, renovation or conversion.
         c.   Uses permitted for individual condominium units by the
declaration, the bylaws of the association and applicable codes, including
within that description, the conditions under which condominium units may be
rented.
         d.   A statement as to whether or not a purchaser may purchase more
than one condominium unit and under what circumstances said purchase may be
effected.
         e.   A statement of legal ownership which shall contain all
restrictions of record and any conditions of title.
      3.   A statement disclosing all financial aspects of the condominium
project including, but not by way of limitation, the following:
         a.   The name of the construction mortgagee, if any, or the source of
interim construction financing, if any.
         b.   The terms and conditions of any long term mortgage financing.
         c.   A statement disclosing the nature and description of the escrow
account to be utilized for the deposit of earnest money deposits of purchasers,
including in that description the name of the financial institution at which
the escrow deposit has been established, or is to be established, and the type
of escrow account.
         d.   A statement disclosing the financial ability of the developer
and/or owner to complete, within a specified period of time, the construction,
renovation or conversion of the proposed condominium units and pertinent
recreational and other facilities, including the projected costs thereof and
methods of payment therefor, and the additional costs thereof to be imposed
upon the condominium unit owners in the event the condominium project is not
completed within said specified period of time.
         e.   A statement disclosing the nature and extent of any protection to
be afforded to the purchaser by the developer in the event the developer should
default on any encumbrance.
         f.   A statement disclosing any pending litigation which would in any
manner affect the unit owners' and/or the developer's ability to convey clear
title.
      4.   Copies of all forms of sales documents and literature relating
thereto including, but not by way of limitation, the following:
         a.   Copies of purchase contracts.
         b.   Copies of the sample trust deed, mortgage and promissory note
where financing for the purchase of condominium units is offered by the
developer.
         c.   A statement of the sale price, terms, options and conditions of
sale of each unsold condominium unit.
         d.   A copy of the sale brochure and floor plans.
         e.   A statement disclosing the identity of the selling agent.
         f.   A statement disclosing the terms and conditions of sale including
estimated itemized closing and settlement costs, taxes and expected assessments
levied either by the association or any governmental entity.
         g.   A statement of estimated monthly payments for each condominium
unit to be itemized as to taxes, utilities, operating costs, assessments,
parking, recreational facilities and all other payments in the first year after
the projected date of assumption of control by the association.
         h.   If the condominium project is to be financed by the developer, a
statement disclosing the nature of the proposed financing of each condominium
unit, including the percent of sales price required for down payment, the
duration of the loan, interest rate, service charges, appraisal charge, closing
costs and the total amount of each monthly payment.
         i.   A description of all appliances and personal property included in
the sale of each condominium unit.
      5.   Copies of all required legal documents binding or to be binding upon
the condominium project, including:
         a.   The declaration and plat. Moreover, prior to the recording of the
declaration, a preliminary declaration and plat may be supplied, provided the
same is accompanied by a statement in capital letters inserted in a conspicuous
caption on said documents as follows:
THE DESCRIPTION OF THE CONDOMINIUM UNITS AND PERCENTAGE OF OWNERSHIP INTEREST
IN COMMON ELEMENTS HEREIN IS PRELIMINARY AND MAY BE CHANGED IN MATERIAL
RESPECTS UPON THE RECORDING OF THE DECLARATION AND PLAT WHICH SHALL OCCUR NO
LESS THAN THIRTY (30) DAYS PRIOR TO THE TIME OF THE FIRST CLOSING.
         b.   The articles of incorporation or charter of the association.
         c.   The bylaws of the association.
         d.   Any leases of real or personal property applicable to the
property.
         e.   Coverage and amounts of condominium insurance policies provided
or to be provided.
         f.   A schedule disclosing ownership interest in the common and
limited common elements.
         g.   Any management contract, employment agreement or any other
contract affecting the use, maintenance or access to all or any part of the
property.
      6.   A statement describing the management and the expected operation of
the condominium project including, but not by way of limitation, the following:
         a.   The name of the managing agent, if any, and the services to be
performed by said agent.
         b.   A statement disclosing that, pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, the developer may not enter into any exclusive contract for management
or services of the condominium project or permit a clause in the sales contract
between the developer and a prospective purchaser of a condominium unit that
would provide for an exclusive management contract to exceed a period of one
year after control of said condominium project is transferred to the individual
unit owners in accordance with the provisions of the act.
         c.   A statement disclosing the duration of the term of any management
contract, the fees, charges and costs provided in said contract, if any, and
the circumstances under which said charges, fees and costs may be increased.
         d.   The conditions, if any, under which any management contract may
be canceled or terminated.
         e.   A statement disclosing any relationship between the developer and
the management firm and the respective corporate officers and controlling
interests thereof.
         f.   A copy of the estimated operating budget for the condominium
project projected for a period of one year from the expected date that the
control of the condominium project will be transferred to the association; said
budget shall include monthly payments to be prorated to each condominium unit
for maintenance and/or management of the condominium property and further,
shall provide for charges for the use of recreation and other facilities, if
any. The developer will be held financially responsible for any intentional
misrepresentation in the budget analysis. The developer shall be obligated to
pay all operating expenses which exceed his estimates of twenty percent (20%).
The operating budget shall include, but not by way of limitation, the
following:
            (1)   Operational costs:
Answering service.
Building insurance.
Elevator maintenance.
Ground and building maintenance.
Heating fuels.
Janitorial services.
Maintenance and operation of recreational and other facilities.
Other fixed costs.
Other operating costs.
Security.
Sidewalk and street maintenance.
Trash and garbage disposal.
Utilities.
            (2)   Reserve costs:
Miscellaneous reserve funds.
Reserve for improvements.
Reserve for replacement and upkeep of common areas and facilities, including
the basis upon which reserves are calculated.
Reserve for taxes and special assessments.
Reserve for unexpected repair work.
If the developer fails to provide a reserve for any one or more of the costs
listed herein, the following statement must be inserted in capital letters in
the property report under a conspicuous caption entitled:
NO RESERVE FUND HAS BEEN PROVIDED FOR...
THE DEVELOPER HAS NOT PROVIDED A RESERVE FUND FOR CERTAIN POSSIBLE FUTURE COSTS
OF THE CONDOMINIUM IN HIS BUDGET. ACCORDINGLY, IT MAY BE NECESSARY TO PROVIDE
FOR A SPECIAL ASSESSMENT TO ALL CONDOMINIUM UNIT OWNERS TO PAY FOR SUCH COSTS
SHOULD THEY OCCUR.
         g.   A statement disclosing the current taxes for each condominium
unit, and an estimate of any anticipated changes in the tax assessment for
condominium units for the first two (2) years of condominium operation.
         h.   A statement disclosing the method and timing of the transfer of
control of the condominium project to the association, including a statement
disclosing the nature of the association's relationship with the developer and
the nature and extent of any interest retained by the developer in the
condominium project.
         i.   A statement disclosing the provisions which the developer has
provided to cover the proposed operation and maintenance of the condominium
project in the event an insufficient number of condominium units are sold
within the first two (2) year period to permit a transfer of the project to the
association.
      7.   For a condominium conversion, a report by a licensed engineer or
registered architect stating the condition and the expected remaining useful
life of the following improvements:
         a.   Roof;
         b.   Foundation;
         c.   External and supporting walls;
         d.   Mechanical;
         e.   Electrical;
         f.   Plumbing;
         g.   Other structural elements as well as all other common facilities,
together with an estimate of the repair and replacement costs thereof, at
current market prices, which shall indicate what the cost per category for each
condominium unit owner would be in the event the condominium unit owners were
assessed for the estimated repair and replacement costs thereof. This report
shall further include the approximate date of installation of the improvements
enumerated herein and the date, if any, of any major repairs made to such
improvements.
      8.   A statement disclosing the nature and extent of all warranties and
disclaimers being made or provided to the purchaser by the developer.
      9.   The following statement in capital letters on the first page
thereof:
THE VILLAGE HAS NOT PASSED UPON NOR HAS IT APPROVED THE MERITS OF THIS PROJECT
OR GIVEN ITS APPROVAL OF THE STATEMENTS CONTAINED HEREIN. THE PURCHASER IS
CAUTIONED THAT ORAL REPRESENTATIONS CANNOT BE RELIED UPON AS CORRECTLY STATING
THE REPRESENTATIONS OF THE DEVELOPER AND THE PURCHASER SHOULD REFER TO THE
PURCHASE CONTRACT FOR ANY BINDING REPRESENTATIONS.
      10.   A statement disclosing whether, and under what circumstances, the
unit owners shall be required to be members of, and support or participate
financially in the maintenance of recreational facilities including, but not by
way of limitation, health clubs, exercise clubs, exercise rooms, swimming
pools, party rooms and golf putting greens. If any such facility is not a part
of the common elements, the following warning shall be included in capital
letters, in a conspicuous caption in the report:
THE (name of facilities) ARE NOT INCLUDED IN THE COMMON ELEMENTS. THESE
FACILITIES ARE AVAILABLE TO UNIT OWNERS FOR (a description of the monthly
charge and initiation fee). UNIT OWNERS ARE/ARE NOT (as applicable) REQUIRED TO
PARTICIPATE FINANCIALLY IN THEIR MAINTENANCE.
      11.   A description of the location, ownership and availability to unit
owners and the general public of accessory off street parking associated with
the condominium project. If all of such parking facilities are not: a) part of
the common elements, or b) divided as individual parking spaces among and
designated as being a part of the condominium units, the following statement
shall be included in capital letters in the report in a conspicuous caption:
PARKING FACILITIES ASSOCIATED WITH THIS PROJECT ARE NOT OWNED BY THE UNIT
OWNERS, AND UNIT OWNERS MAY BE DENIED ACCESS TO SAID FACILITIES.
A description of the availability of such off street parking shall include a
statement as to the parking requirements contained in the zoning ordinance of
the village at the time the condominium project is, or was, originally
constructed.
      12.   A statement disclosing whether there exist any restrictions upon
the sale, transfer, conveyance, encumbrance or leasing of any condominium unit.
If such a restriction exists, the following shall be included in capital
letters in a conspicuous caption in the report:
THE SALE, LEASE OR TRANSFER OF YOUR CONDOMINIUM UNIT IS RESTRICTED OR
CONTROLLED AS FOLLOWS:
Immediately following this statement, there shall appear a reference to the
documents, articles, paragraphs and pages in the property report wherein the
restriction, limitation or control of the sale, lease, encumbrance or transfer
of the condominium unit is set forth and described in detail.
   B.   Submission Of Property Report To Prospective Purchasers And To Village:
      1.   A copy of the property report and any amendments or supplements
thereto shall be filed with the village community development department by the
developer promptly upon the preparation thereof. A copy of said report shall be
utilized for informational purposes only and shall be included in the building
permit file.
      2.   Subject to compliance with and adherence to the other provisions,
conditions and limitations contained in this chapter and the act, a developer
or his agent shall not enter into a binding contract or agreement for the sale
of a condominium unit until the following has occurred:
         a.   A copy of the property report and any amendments or supplements
thereto, if any, have been distributed to the prospective purchaser, including
all existing tenants in a prospective condominium conversion;
         b.   The prospective purchaser has been afforded a reasonable amount
of time in which to read the property report; and
         c.   A receipt signed by the prospective purchaser has been received
by the developer or his agent which acknowledges that the prospective purchaser
has received and has had an opportunity to review the property report.
      3.   Such receipts shall be kept on file in the possession of the
developer for a period of three (3) years from the date of signature by the
prospective purchaser. Receipt shall be subject to inspection by the village at
any reasonable time.
      4.   The property report and any amendments or supplements thereto shall
be made available by the developer at his offices for inspection by the public
at any reasonable time.
      5.   If any information required to be contained in the property report
is unavailable prior to the time a prospective purchaser desires to enter into
a contract of purchase, the contract may, at the purchaser's option, be
executed without the availability of such information; provided, that such
information shall be furnished to the purchaser and the developer shall obtain
the purchaser's receipt acknowledging receipt of said information prior to the
closing of the sale.
      6.   The developer shall not, after the submission of the property report
to the community development department of the village, change the terms of the
property report without first notifying the community development department in
writing of such proposed changes and thereafter notifying, in writing, all
purchasers and all existing tenants in any prospective condominium conversion
of such changes.
      7.   After the execution of a contract of sale for a condominium unit and
prior to the time of closing of said sale, the developer shall deliver to the
purchaser a copy of any amendments, supplements or modifications to the
property report. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013)
8-2-4: CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION; FEES:
   A.   Application For Certificate Of Inspection: Any developer selling a
condominium conversion which is regulated by this chapter shall first apply to
the village building official for a certificate of inspection with respect to
each condominium unit and relative to the common elements of the property
containing the condominium unit. The developer shall submit the declaration and
plat pertaining to the property with the application.
   B.   Inspection Fees: For inspections conducted pursuant to this section,
the developer shall pay to the village a fee of four hundred dollars ($400.00)
for every ten (10) condominium units, or portions thereof, within a building
for inspection of the common elements, plus a fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00) for inspection of each condominium unit contained in said building.
   C.   Issuance Of Certificate; Contents: After inspection as provided for
herein has been completed and compliance with current codes has been
ascertained or waived, the building official shall issue a certificate of
inspection with respect to each condominium unit inspected and with respect to
the common elements. All of the certificates issued shall include thereon a
specification of each separate condition of noncompliance which has been
waived. The building official shall also issue to such applicant clear and
legible copies of such certificates suitable for posting.
   D.   Posting Of Certificate: It shall be the obligation of the developer to
post and keep posted one copy of the certificate of inspection on the front
doorway of each condominium unit to which it pertains until the sale of that
unit is closed. The developer shall further post and keep posted a copy of the
certificate pertaining to the common elements on the doorway of the main
entrance and any other such places as may be directed by the building official
until the sale of the last condominium unit has been closed.
Every purchaser of a condominium unit subject to the inspection requirements of
this section shall, prior to the closing of the sale of his condominium unit,
receive from the developer a copy of the certificate of inspection pertaining
to the condominium unit and the common elements and shall deliver to the
developer a written statement acknowledging receipt of said certificate. The
developer shall maintain these statements and present them upon reasonable
request for examination by the appropriate authorities of the village.
   E.   Compliance With Provisions:
      1.   Except as otherwise contained herein, no certificate of inspection
shall be issued and no sale shall be closed for any condominium unit if such
condominium unit, or the common elements, are not in compliance with current
codes.
      2.   No condominium conversion unit located within the village shall be
sold under the provisions of the act unless, prior to the closing of the sale,
all provisions of this chapter, including the issuance of a certificate of
inspection, have been complied with. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013)
8-2-5: WARRANTIES:
Any agreement for sale of a condominium unit under the provisions of this
chapter shall contain a warranty that the condominium unit and the common
elements are in good condition, free from any latent or patent defects and that
the developer shall repair or replace any defect in said condominium unit or
the common elements at the developer's sole cost promptly upon being notified
in writing of such defect by the purchaser of such condominium unit or the
association, as the case may be; provided, however, that such notice of defect
must be delivered to the developer within one year from the date of conveyance
of title thereto to the purchaser. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013)
8-2-6: CONTRACT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Exclusive Management Contracts Prohibited: The developer shall be
precluded from entering into any exclusive contract for management and/or
service of the condominium project, and further shall be precluded from
permitting a clause in the sales contract between the developer and any
prospective purchaser of a condominium unit that would stipulate an exclusive
management or service contract to exceed a period of one year after control of
said condominium project is transferred to the association in accordance with
the act.
   B.   Exclusive Sales Agreement: There shall be no clause in the sales
contract between the developer and a prospective purchaser of a condominium
unit that would create an exclusive sales agreement with a real estate agent as
to the subsequent sale of the condominium unit. Any unit owner shall have the
right to decide what agent, if any, shall be used in any subsequent sale of a
condominium unit. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013)
8-2-7: ADDITIONAL OBLIGATIONS OF DEVELOPER:
   A.   The developer shall be required to pay his proportionate share of
maintenance, service and/or management fees for any existing unsold condominium
units.
   B.   The developer shall be required to bear the costs of any real estate
tax assessment or reassessment from commercial to residential status.
   C.   In the event of a condominium conversion, the developer shall pay all
reasonable relocation fees for tenants then residing in the building to be
converted who elect not to purchase a condominium unit and who are entitled to
housing subsidies pursuant to the provisions of section 8 of the department of
housing and urban development rules and regulations on the date that the letter
of intent to convert is delivered to tenants as provided by the act. (Ord.
2013-29, 6-13-2013)
8-2-8: EXISTING TENANTS IN CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS:
   A.   For tenant families containing at least one member of the household who
is sixty five (65) years of age or older, or who is physically or mentally
disabled, or for tenant families containing two (2) or more children as part of
the household, eviction (other than for cause) shall be delayed beyond the term
of their existing lease for a period of not less than six (6) months from the
date of the filing of the declaration.
   B.   Each tenant in a conversion project shall receive a copy of the
property report. For a period of thirty (30) days following the date the tenant
receives a copy of the property report, the tenant shall have the right of
first refusal on the unit he/she occupies. This provision shall not reduce the
rights provided under the act.
   C.   The developer in a condominium conversion shall include in the contract
of sale for each condominium unit clauses which shall read as follows:
Seller hereby grants to any purchaser who is an existing tenant at the time of
notice of conversion, a period of fifteen (15) days following the date this
contract is signed within which to review the Condominium documents made
available to the purchaser pursuant to the provisions of the village code.
and,
Notwithstanding any other provision of this contract to the contrary, if the
tenant-purchaser is not satisfied with the said Condominium documents, the
tenant-purchaser may, at his election, by written notice to the seller at any
time prior to the fifteenth day following the date this contract is signed by
the tenant-purchaser, terminate his contract, and the tenant-purchaser's
deposit shall be refunded and the parties hereto shall have no further rights
or liabilities under this contract.
The clause in the sales contract which provides for the fifteen (15) day
cooling off period shall be located:
      1.   Either immediately above the purchaser's signature, or
      2.   Under a conspicuous caption entitled "TENANT-PURCHASER'S RIGHT TO
CANCEL".
The rights of tenant-purchasers under this section shall not be waived in the
contract of sale and any attempted waiver thereof shall be void and of no force
and effect. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013)
8-2-9: DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
No person shall be denied the right to purchase or lease a condominium unit
because of race, religion, color, ancestry, age, sex, physical or mental
disability, or marital status. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013)
8-2-10: RENTAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS:
Every contract for sale of a condominium unit shall provide that in the event
the developer fails to submit the property to the provisions of the act or
removes the property from the provisions of the act prior to the closing of any
such contract, the contract purchaser shall have the right to lease said unit
upon the following terms and conditions:
   A.   Condominium Conversions: Upon the same terms and conditions set forth
in the most recent lease of said unit; provided that:
      1.   The rent shall be in an amount not exceeding one hundred fifteen
percent (115%) of the rent set forth in said lease; and
      2.   The term shall not be less than one year from and after the date
upon which the closing on the contract for sale was scheduled to take place.
   B.   New Construction: For a term of not less than one year from and after
the date upon which the closing on the contract for sale was scheduled to take
place, upon the same terms and conditions and at the same rental rates
generally applicable to substantially similar property located within the
village; provided, however, that if there is no substantially similar property
located within the village, then upon the same terms and conditions and at the
same rental rates generally applicable to substantially similar property
located within the county. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013)
8-2-11: EXEMPTIONS FROM VARIOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Exclusion Of Small Developments: The provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to conversions or new construction of condominium projects containing
four (4) dwelling units or less; provided, however, that all condominium
conversions regardless of the number of units contained therein shall be
subject to the village inspection and the report provisions of this chapter.
Moreover, nothing contained in this section shall exclude or exempt any
condominium project from conforming to the requirements of the act.
   B.   Resale Of Previously Inspected Condominium Units: This chapter shall
not apply to the resale of any condominium unit:
      1.   For which a certificate of inspection has been previously issued
pursuant to the terms of this chapter; or
      2.   Which was originally designed and sold under the act prior to the
effective date of this chapter if a certificate of occupancy has been issued
with respect thereto.
   C.   Waiver Of Certain Village Codes: The requirements for compliance with
current village codes with respect to condominium conversions may be waived
under the following circumstances:
      1.   With respect to the number of off street parking spaces:
         a.   If the number of off street parking spaces currently available
was in compliance with the codes in effect when the condominium unit was
constructed; or
         b.   If compliance with current codes would lessen the number of off
street parking spaces available to unit owners, then such current code
requirements may be waived.
      2.   With respect to other provisions of the codes, if the building
containing the condominium unit and the common elements were in compliance with
the codes in effect when the condominium unit was constructed and if current
code compliance would require structural changes, the current code provisions
may be waived.
      3.   With respect to the total number of and location of condominium
units, if the said number and location were in compliance with the codes in
effect when the building was constructed, those requirements under current
existing codes may be waived. (Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013)
8-2-12: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement Officer: The village building official is hereby authorized
and directed to receive complaints and conduct such investigations of
violations of this chapter as he deems necessary pursuant to the authority
vested in him by his office.
   B.   Remedies: Whenever it is determined by the building official that there
has been a violation of this chapter, said building official shall be
authorized to:
      1.   Conciliate the matter by conference or otherwise and secure a
written conciliation agreement; or
      2.   Obtain a written assurance of discontinuance of the violation which
shall be signed by the developer and the building official.
   C.   Failure To Remedy; Enjoining Violations: In the event that the building
official determines that a violation of this chapter exists and the same is not
remedied under the provisions of subsection B of this section, then the village
administrator, with the concurrence of the mayor and board of trustees, shall
direct the village legal counsel to apply to any court of competent
jurisdiction to enjoin any violation of this chapter, or to take such other and
further action as they, in their discretion, may deem necessary.
   D.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to
comply with or who resists enforcement of any of the provisions of this
chapter, other than wilfully making an untrue or misleading statement of
material fact or wilfully omitting a material fact in the property report,
shall, upon conviction, be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for each
unit with respect to which a violation has occurred. Each day during which any
unit has been advertised or offered for sale, and such advertisement or offer
has not been withdrawn, shall constitute a separate offense.
      2.   Any person who wilfully makes an untrue or misleading statement of
material fact or who wilfully omits a material fact in the property report
shall be subject to the penalty provisions of title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
(Ord. 2013-29, 6-13-2013)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Purpose And Intent
9-1-3: Interpretation
9-1-4: Private Agreements
9-1-5: Provisions Separable
9-1-6: Application Of Regulations
9-1-7: Previously Approved Plans
9-1-8: Zoning District Classifications
9-1-9: Zoning Map
9-1-10: Zoning Of Annexed Land
9-1-11: Effective Date
9-1-1: TITLE:
This Title shall be known, cited, and referred to as the “Village of Woodridge
Zoning Ordinance (2024),” as may be amended from time to time.
Within this Title, it is from time to time referred to generally as “Code”,
“Ordinance” or “this Title.” (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This Title is adopted pursuant to the Village’s home rule powers and Division
13 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq., as the same may
be amended from time to time, and includes the full scope of authority therein
for the purpose of improving and protecting the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, and general welfare of the people. The fulfillment of this purpose
is to be accomplished by pursuing the following objectives:
   A.   To lessen congestion on the public streets.
   B.   To avoid undue concentration of population.
   C.   To prevent the overcrowding of land, thereby insuring proper living and
working conditions and preventing the development of blight and slums.
   D.   To establish adequate standards for the provision of light, air, and
open spaces.
   E.   To facilitate the provision of adequate public services such as
transportation, water, sewerage, open space, and parks.
   F.   To zone all properties with a view to conserving the value of buildings
and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the Village.
   G.   To protect all areas alike from harmful encroachment by incompatible
uses and to insure that land allocated to a class of uses shall not be usurped
by inappropriate uses within the parameters of the standards and requirements
of this Chapter.
   H.   To avoid the inappropriate development of lands and provide for
adequate drainage, curbing or erosion, and reduction of flood damage.
   I.   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings, structures, and land
shall conform.
   J.   To prevent such additions to, and alterations or remodeling of,
existing buildings or structures as would not comply with the restrictions and
limitations imposed herein.
   K.   To foster a more rational pattern of relationship between residential,
business, and manufacturing uses for the mutual benefit of all.
   L.   To isolate or control the location of unavoidable nuisance-producing
uses.
   M.   To establish local standards for the review of exterior design of
buildings and structures.
   N.   To define the powers and duties of the administrative and enforcement
officers and bodies.
   O.   To prescribe penalties for any violation of the provisions of this
Code, or of any subsequent amendments hereto.
The standards and requirements contained in this Title and the district mapping
reflected on the Village of Woodridge Zoning Map are intended to implement all
elements of the Village of Woodridge Comprehensive Land Use Plan, including the
land use component, and other plans that may be adopted from time to time that
establish the planning policies of the Village. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Title will be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare. Where the conditions imposed
by any provision of this Title, upon the use of buildings, structures, or land,
or upon the bulk of buildings or structures, are either more restrictive or
less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of
this Title or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation of
any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher
standards or requirements will govern. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-1-4: PRIVATE AGREEMENTS:
This Title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, or any other
private agreement; provided, that where the regulations of this Title are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such easements,
covenants, or other private agreements, the requirements of this Title will
govern. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-1-5: PROVISIONS SEPARABLE:
The provisions of this Title are separable as follows:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this Title, or any amendment to this Title, to be invalid, that judgment will
not affect any other provisions of this Title not specifically included in that
judgment.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction adjudges as invalid the
application of any provision of this Title, or any amendments to this Title, to
a particular building, structure, use, or parcel of land, that judgment will
not affect the application of the provision to any other building, structure,
or parcel of land not specifically included in that judgment. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-
7-2024)
9-1-6: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
All buildings or structures erected after the Effective Date of this Title, all
uses of buildings, structures, or land established after the Effective Date of
this Title, and all structural alteration or relocation of existing buildings
or structures occurring after the Effective Date of this Title will be subject
to all regulations of this Title, or any amendment to this Title, which are
applicable to the zoning districts in which the buildings, structures, or
parcels of land are be located. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-1-7: PREVIOUSLY APPROVED PLANS:
Where a building permit for a building or structure has been issued in
accordance with law prior to the Effective Date of this Title, or any amendment
to this Title, and provided that construction was begun before the Effective
Date of this Title, or any amendment to this Title, and completion is
accomplished within eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date of these
regulations, or any amendment to this Title, that building or structure may be
completed in accordance with the approved plans on the basis of which the
building permit has been issued, and further, may, upon completion, be occupied
for the use for which originally designated, subject to the provisions of
Chapter 9, Nonconformities Regulations, of this Title. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-1-8: ZONING DISTRICT CLASSIFICATIONS:
For the purpose of this Title, the Village is hereby divided and classified
into the following zoning districts:
Residential Districts
R-1 Single Dwelling Unit District
R-2 Single Dwelling Unit District
R-3 Single Dwelling Unit District
A-1 Attached Dwelling Unit District
A-2 Attached Dwelling Unit District
Business Districts
B-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
B-2 Community Shopping District
B-3 Highway and Service Business District
RBC Regional Business Center District
Industrial Districts
ORI Office, Research, and Light Industrial
M-1 Manufacturing District
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-1-9: ZONING MAP:
   A.   The land and the zoning district classification in this Title will be
as shown on the map designated as the "Village of Woodridge Zoning Map," dated
and signed by the Village Clerk upon adoption. This zoning map and all
notations, dimensions, references and symbols shown thereon pertaining to the
districts will be a part of this Title as if fully described in this Subsection
9-1-9  A. and will be filed as part of this Title by the Community Development
Director. The zoning map will be available for public inspection in the
Community Development Department and any later alterations of this map adopted
by amendment as provided in Chapter 6 of this Title will all be similarly
dated, filed and made available for public reference.
   B.   The following rules apply with respect to the boundaries of the various
zoning districts as shown on the Village of Woodridge Zoning Map:
      1.   District boundary lines are the centerlines of highways, streets,
alleys, easements, railroad rights-of-way, toll roads, expressways, rivers and
other bodies of water, or section, division of section, tract and lot lines; or
such lines extended, unless otherwise indicated.
      2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
highways, streets, alleys, easements, toll roads or expressways shall be
construed to follow such centerlines.
      3.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
will be construed as following such lot lines.
      4.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following Village limits will
be construed as following Village limits.
      5.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines will be construed
to be the established centerline of the right-of-way or if no centerline is
established, the boundary will be interpreted to be midway between the right-
of-way lines.
      6.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
rivers or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such centerlines,
and in the event of change in the centerline, will be construed as moving with
the centerline; the centerline will be interpreted as being midway between the
shorelines.
      7.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in Subsections B.1 through B.6 of this Section will be so construed.
      8.   Whenever any street, alley or other public right-of-way is vacated
by official action of the Village Board or whenever such area is franchised for
building purposes, the zoning district line adjoining each side of such street,
alley or other public right-of-way will be automatically extended to the
centerline of such vacated street, alley or public right-of-way and all area so
involved will then and going forward be subject to all regulations of the
extended districts.
      9.   Boundaries indicated as dividing a lot or tract will be construed as
being located as shown on the Village of Woodridge Zoning Map.
      10.   Distances not specifically indicated on the Village of Woodridge
Zoning Map will be determined by the scale of the map. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-1-10: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
A party seeking to annex property into the Village will request a zoning
classification for the property upon filing an application to annex into the
Village’s municipal boundaries. The requested zoning classification will be
reviewed by the Village for consistency with the Village of Woodridge
Comprehensive Land Use Plan, or any other relevant plan document, as well as
the character of zoning in the area surrounding and abutting the subject
property. The requested zoning classification will be reviewed by the Plan
Commission and the Board of Trustees in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 6  of this Chapter. A property that is annexed without requesting a
zoning classification will be zoned R-1, Single-Family Residence District.
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-1-11: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This Chapter becomes effective on March 7, 2024, except as otherwise expressly
stated. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in the text of this title shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
the present tense.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive.
   D.   All definitions are gender neutral.
   E.   The word “Village” means the Village of Woodridge, Illinois.
   F.   Whenever a word or term defined in this Chapter appears in the text of
this Title, its meaning shall be construed as set forth herein. Any word not
defined in this Chapter shall be construed as defined in any applicable Village
code ordinance, or, if none, the normal dictionary usage.
   G.   Whenever a provision appears requiring the zoning officer or some other
village
   officer to do some act or perform some duty, it is to be construed to
authorize the officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to
perform the required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision
or section specify otherwise. (Ord. 86-63, §§ 1–7; amd. Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall be construed as herein defined:
ABOVEGROUND SERVICE FACILITY: A structure located on or above the surface of
the ground, including any cabinet and the underground supports and foundations
for such structure, that is used by a public utility or service provider to
supply some public need or demand such as power, water, gas, telecommunications
or similar benefit.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A second housing unit on a single-family
residential lot. Commonly referred to as granny flats, coach houses, and in-law
suites, ADUs are smaller, independent units with a kitchen and bathroom. These
units can be located within the home, be attached to the home, or be detached
from the home. To be considered an ADU the unit must be permanently
inaccessible from the principal structure, or inaccessible when a connecting
door is bolted. An ADU has a separate exterior entrance from the principal
structure.
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, and other periodicals, and/or
photographs, films, motion pictures, records or other form of visual or audio
representations which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of such material.
ADULT BUSINESS USE: Any commercial use of property of which a significant or
substantial portion involves an activity distinguished or characterized by its
emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, including, but not limited to, the
operation of an adult bookstore, adult card, gift or novelty store, adult
entertainment cabaret, adult mini-motion picture theater, adult motel, adult
motion picture arcade, or adult motion picture theater.
ADULT CARD, GIFT, OR NOVELTY STORE: An establishment having as a significant or
substantial portion of its stock-in-trade items, such as cards, games, articles
of clothing and novelties which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which, live or
on motion pictures, features:
   A.   Topless and/or bottomless dancers, strippers and/or male or female
impersonators; or
   B.   Entertainers who frequently display specified anatomical areas; or
   C.   Entertainers who by reason of their appearance or conduct perform in a
manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient interest of the
patron, or entertainers who engage in, or engage in explicit simulation of,
specified sexual activities.
ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building, or any portion or
portions thereof, having a capacity from six (6) to fifty (50) persons, where,
for any form of consideration (including a coin or token inserted into a coin
or token operated projector, video screen, or other image producing device),
patrons may view films, motion pictures, or similar photographic or electronic
reproductions in which a significant or substantial portion of the total
presentation time is devoted to the showing of materials that are distinguished
by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT MOTEL: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
   A.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with films, motion pictures, or other electronic or
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and
has a sign visible from the public right of way which advertises the
availability of such films, motion pictures, or other electronic or
photographic reproductions; or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
eight (8) hours; or
   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room for
a period of time that is less than eight (8) hours. “Rent” and “subrent,” when
used in reference to an adult motel, shall mean the act of permitting a
sleeping room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE: An establishment in which electronic, electrical,
or mechanical video screens or other image producing devices operable by
insertion of a coin or token or for other consideration are maintained for
presentation of images to five (5) or fewer persons at a time per such device
and where the images presented are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building with a capacity of fifty
(50) or more persons where, for any form of consideration, patrons may view
films, motion pictures, or similar electronic or photographic reproductions in
which a significant or substantial portion of the total presentation time is
devoted to the showing of materials that are distinguished by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
AGRICULTURE: Land, including necessary buildings and structures, used growing
of crops in the open.
ALLEY: A public right of way, with a width not exceeding twenty-four feet
(24'), which affords a secondary means of access to abutting property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2784.png]
ALTERATION: A change in size, shape, character or use of a structure.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof used to provide medical care,
observation, treatment, and accessory indoor boarding of domestic animals.
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
ANTENNA, DIRECTIONAL: A personal wireless services antenna that radiates or
receives greater power in specific directions allowing for increased
performance and reduced interference from unwanted sources.
ANTENNA, HEIGHT: The height of an antenna measured from the ground level at
grade to its highest point.
ANTENNA, OMNIDIRECTIONAL: A personal wireless services antenna receiving
signals from or transmitting in all directions.
ANTENNA, PANEL: A type of directional antenna that is usually one-directional,
used to increase the range and capability of wireless Internet networks.
ANTENNA, PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES: An antenna used in connection with the
provision of personal wireless services.
ANTENNA, SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Any structure, including a tower, used for the
principal purpose of supporting a personal wireless services antenna.
ANTENNA, WHIP: A personal wireless services antenna in the form of a long
flexible wire or rod with a connection to one end.
ARBOR: A frame of wooden or metal, mainly used to support small trees or
climbing plants.
ARCHITECTURAL ENTRANCE FEATURE: Structures used for the purpose of
ornamentation intended to improve, identify, designate, label or demarcate the
entrance to or exit from a residential subdivision, business park or planned
unit development. Such structures may include, but are not limited to,
decorative walls, columns, fence-like structures, sculptures or statues. An
architectural entrance feature is not a sign; however, a sign may be part of,
or mounted to, an architectural entrance. Such signs shall be in keeping with
the feature as set forth in
chapter 11  of this title and subject to approval by the director of community
development.
ATTIC: The space between the ceiling (joist) beams of the top story and the
roof rafters.
ATTIC, HABITABLE: A habitable atic is an atic which has a stairway as a means
of ingress and egress and in which the ceiling area at a height of seven and
one-third feet (7 1/3') above the atic floor is not more than one-third (1/3)
the area of the next floor below.
AUDITORIUM: A room, a hall or part of a building, or other standalone building
for gathering of people as an audience to hear events such as lectures, plays,
and other presentations.
AUTOMOBILE AND TRUCK RENTAL: An establishment for the rental or leasing of
motor vehicles where contracts are prepared, reservations accepted, and
vehicles stored and prepared for rental.
AUTOMOBILE AND TRUCK SALES (NEW AND USED): The use of any building or portion
thereof, or other premises, for the display and sale of new motor vehicles, or
used motor vehicles as an ancillary use of a lot, and any warranty repair work
and other repair service conducted as an accessory use.
AUTOMOBILE BODY SHOP: Any building, or portion thereof, used for the repair or
straightening of a motor vehicle body or frame, welding and/or painting of
motor vehicles. Maintenance, service and the repair or replacement of engines,
transmissions, differentials and drive trains may be performed as an ancillary
function to the body work.
AUTOMOBILE, PARKED: A vehicle parked on a residential property which does not
remain on a parcel for more than ninety-six (96) consecutive hours.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR: Any building, or portion thereof, used for the repair or
replacement of engines, transmissions, differentials, drive trains, or any part
thereof, and/or the replacement of parts, service and incidental repairs to
motor vehicles, but excluding operations specified under automobile body shop.
AUTOMOBILE STORAGE: The action at a facility, portion of such, or other
location in the Village where motor vehicles remain unmoved for a period of
greater than seventy-two (72) hours in a non-residential district.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A business partly or entirely devoted to storing
and dispensing of automobile fuels and accessories. Sale of convenience
shopping goods to those purchasing gasoline, or others, may also be a part of
this activity.
AVERAGE GRADE: Elevation of the two (2) points where the required front
building setback line intersects the side lot lines.
AWNING: A structure made of cloth, metal, or other material affixed to a
building in such a manner that the structure may be permanently affixed or
affixed in such a manner that it may be raised or retracted to a position
against the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2786.png]
 
BALCONY: An elevated platform open to the elements, not supported by the ground
and projecting from an upper story and enclosed entirely by a railing.
BANKS AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS: A facility, open to the public, engaged in
deposit banking and that related functions such as loan-making, investments,
and financial activities.
BANQUET HALL: An establishment rented to individuals or groups for private
functions such as, banquets, weddings, and similar events. Such a use may or
may not include kitchen facilities and on premises alcohol consumption during
scheduled events.
BASEBALL/SOFTBALL DUGOUT SHELTER: A structure accessory to a field on which
baseball or softball are played, designated for players waiting for a time to
participate in the sporting event.
BASEMENT: A portion of a building located partly underground, but having not
less than one-half (1/2) its clear floor to ceiling height below the average
surrounding grade of the adjoining ground.
BAY WINDOW: A window projecting beyond the wall line of the building and not
supported by a foundation.
BEER/WINE BAR: An establishment where the principal business is serving
alcoholic beverages to be consumed by the customers on the premises and in
which serving food may be incidental to the business operation. Accessory sale
of alcoholic beverages for off-site consumption are included as part of this
use.
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: an operator-occupied residence providing
accommodation for a charge to the public. Breakfast may be provided to the
guests only.
BILLBOARD: A sign advertising a land use, business, product, or service, not
located or available upon the premises whereon the sign is located. These signs
are distinguished from other off-premise signs by their larger than otherwise
permitted size and typical location along interstates, state highways, and
major arterial roadways. Additionally, billboards are often erected to attract
attention to land uses, businesses, products, and/or services that may be
utilized by motorists unfamiliar with area-wide land uses, businesses,
products, and or services, such as tourists and out-of-state visitors.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and
other natural, constructed, or defined barriers.
BREW PUB: A full-service restaurant where beer is brewed or manufactured on the
premises, with the primary distribution being in the adjoining full-service
restaurant.
BULK STORAGE: Materials related to operation of a business that are finished
products to be sold, or to be used in preparation of new products.
BUSINESS AND TECHNICAL SCHOOL: A specialized instructional establishment
providing on-site training of business, commercial, and/or trade skills such as
business skills, computer operations, and manufacturing/industrial skills.
BOAT: Any vessel used for travel upon or through water, except a personal
watercraft. As applied in Chapter 5 of this Title, a boat and the trailer upon
which it is maintained shall be considered as one vehicle.
BOAT SALES AND REPAIR: A building, or portion thereof, for the display and sale
of boats, including facilities for repair of boats.
BORROW PIT: A depression or pit created to provide soil to be used as fill at
another location.
BOTANIC GARDEN: A facility for the display and raising of plants and other
features for study and public display.
BUILDABLE AREA: The area of the lot which is not located within any required
yard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3157.png]
 
BUILDING: Any structure that is built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chatels or movable property, and is permanently affixed to
the land.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building or portion of a principal building,
the use of which is incidental to that of the principal building and customary
in connection with that use.
BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED: A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space or from other buildings or other structures by a permanent
roof and behind exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows and
normal entrance or exit doors.
BUILDING COVERAGE: The gross area of a lot occupied by the ground floor of all
principal building(s) and accessory structures which are under roof.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average grade measured to the
highest point of the building. In determining height, parapet walls not
exceeding three feet (3') in height from the roof surface, penthouse, roof
tanks, bulkheads, chimneys and similar roof structures shall not be included
unless the aggregate area of such structures exceeds one-third (1/3) of the
area of the roof of the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2790.png]
 
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which the principal use of the lot on which
it is located is conducted.
BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL: A building which is arranged, designed, used or intended
to be used for residential occupancy.
BURNING, FREE: A rate of combustion described by material which burns actively
and easily supports combustion. Examples: coal, charcoal.
BURNING, INTENSE: A rate of combustion described by a material that burns with
a high degree of activity and is consumed rapidly. Examples: sawdust, magnesium
(powder, flaked or strips), rocket fuels.
BURNING, SLOW: A rate of combustion which describes materials that do not in
themselves constitute an active fuel for the spread of combustion. Examples:
wool, materials with fire retardant treatments.
BUSINESS: Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or which occupies time, attention, labor and materials, or
where services are offered.
BUSINESS SERVICES: Establishments primarily providing services that are
generally related to businesses support activities.
CALIPER: The diameter of the trunk of a tree measured in inches at a point six
inches (6") above the ground for up to and including four inch (4") caliper
size, and twelve inches (12") above the ground for larger sizes. This point of
measurement is used for nursery stock trees.
CANNABIS: “Cannabis” as defined in Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and
Tax Act, as amended.
CANNABIS DISPENSARY: A business establishment operated in accordance with
Illinois State Statute 410 ILCS 705, where cannabis and/or cannabis products
are offered for retail sale either for medical or recreational consumption. A
cannabis dispensary does not include on-site consumption, cultivation, or
infusion of cannabis or cannabis products.
CANNABIS PRODUCTION: Craft growers, cultivation centers, infusers, processors,
and transporters as defined under Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and
Tax Act, as amended.
CANOPY: A roofed structure that is open on at least three (3) sides and
typically provides protection from the sun or weather that is associated with
the sale of commercial goods or services.
CAR WASH: A building or portion thereof where automobiles are washed manually
or with the use of a conveyor and blower, or other cleaning device.
CARETAKER'S/WATCHMAN RESIDENCE: Living quarters accessory to an industrial use
provided as a residence, on site, for an employee charged with providing
maintenance and security functions to a facility.
CARGO CONTAINER: An industrial, standardized reusable vessel that was:
   A.   Originally, specifically or formerly designed for or used in the
packing, shipping, movement or transportation of freight, articles, goods or
commodities, and/or
   B.   Designed for or capable of being mounted or moved on a rail car, and/or
   C.   Designed for or capable of being mounted on a chassis or bogie for
movement by truck trailer or loaded on a ship.
CARGO CONTAINER FACILITY: Any site in which the principal use is the movement,
staging, or redistribution of cargo containers either on or off of a chassis,
or the nonpermanent storage (six (6) months or less) of cargo containers
without being utilized for transportation purposes, but not to include railroad
operations that are subject to jurisdiction of the U.S. department of
transportation surface transportation board.
CARPORT, ATTACHED: A permanent roofed structure, made of wood, brick, steel or
similar materials, not more than fifty percent (50%) enclosed by walls and
attached to the principal structure for the purpose of providing shelter for
one or more motor vehicles.
CARPORT, DETACHED: A permanent roofed structure, made of wood, brick, steel or
similar materials, not more than fifty percent (50%) enclosed by walls for the
purpose of providing shelter for one (1) or more motor vehicles.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2792.png]
 
CARTAGE AND EXPRESS FACILITIES: Any buildings, parking lots and related
structures whose principal use is one or more of the following: the routing of
trucks; the receipt and immediate dispatching of goods; short term storage
which is incidental to the primary function of receipt and dispatching of
goods; the parking or storage of trucks, trailers or other vehicles that
accommodates the simultaneous loading and unloading of trucks. Cartage and
express facilities do not include cargo container movement, storage, staging,
or redistribution on or off a truck trailer.
CATERING ESTABLISHMENT: A business producing or processing food sales for
consumption off-site by individuals or groups.
CEMETERY: A parcel of land and structure dedicated to the interment of human.
Often includes crematoria, mausoleums, columbaria, mortuaries, and funeral
establishments on the same grounds.
CHASSIS: The non-powered portion of a semitrailer configuration that transports
the cargo container; also known as a truck trailer.
CHICKEN/HEN COOP: An enclosed structure used for housing chickens that provides
protection from the elements.
CHILDCARE CENTER: A facility, other than within a residential dwelling unit,
which exclusively provides supplemental care and supervision, recreation, and/
or educational instruction to children or adults during the entire or any
portion of the day. Daycare centers shall be in keeping with current state
regulations.
CHILDCARE HOME: Any residence which receives more than three (3), up to a
maximum of twelve (12) children, for less than twenty-four (24) hours per day.
The number counted includes the family's natural or adopted children and all
other persons under the age of twelve (12). The term does not include
facilities which receive only children from a single household.
CLOSED CUP FLASHPOINT: The lowest temperature at which a combustible liquid
under prescribed conditions will give off a flammable vapor which will
propagate a flame. The tag closed cup tester shall be authoritative for liquids
having a flashpoint below one hundred seventy-five degrees Fahrenheit (175°F).
The Pensky Martens tester shall be authoritative for liquids having flashpoints
between one hundred seventy-five degrees Fahrenheit (175°F) and three hundred
degrees Fahrenheit (300°F).
COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY (PUBLIC AND PRIVATE): An institution, other than a trade
school, that provides full-time or part-time education beyond high school and
that grants associate or bachelor degrees and may also have research facilities
and/or professional schools that grant degrees.
COLLOCATION: The use of a single structure by two (2) or more antenna systems
or platforms on a structure such as a support structure, pole, tower, mast
building, water tower, or other structure.
COMMON AREA LIGHTING: Lighting fixtures located in the common area of
developments including, but not limited to, private roadways, streets and
driveways.
COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A dwelling unit shared by not more than twelve (12)
persons not related by blood, marriage, adoption or guardianship, plus their
related staff, who live together as a single housekeeping unit and in a long
term family environment in which staff persons assist in providing care,
education, and participation in community activities for the residents with the
primary goal of enabling the residents to live as independently as possible in
order to reach their maximum potential. A group home may be shared by groups
such as the disabled or the elderly.
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated volume of storage used to
balance the loss of natural flood storage capacity when artificial fill or
structures are placed within the floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural
floodplain storage can increase off site floodwater elevations and flows.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN or THE VILLAGE OF WOODRIDGE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN: The
compilation of policy statements; goals; standards; maps; recommended planning,
regulatory, fiscal and public works programs; together with pertinent data
relative to the past, present and future trends of the village with respect to
its population, housing, economic, social and environmental development
patterns; its land, water and natural resources and use; its transportation
facilities, public facilities and utilities; and any other mater relative to
the present and future patterns of life within the village or within the
unincorporated areas lying within one and one-half miles of its boundaries as
they may from time to time exist, prepared and recommended by the plan
commission with the advice and assistance of the zoning officer and adopted by
the village board by ordinance duly enacted, together with such amendments
thereto as may be adopted from time to time. The comprehensive plan will also
refer to any internally consistent and complete portion of such a compilation
relating to any one or more of the above-referenced subjects or to any specific
portion of the above-referenced geographical area. As of the effective date of
this title, said term is understood to refer to the following documents:
   A.   Village of Woodridge Comprehensive Plan 2015, as amended.
   B.   The comprehensive plan of the village of Woodridge, DuPage and Will
Counties, Illinois.
CONTRACTOR SERVICES: Any of the activities commonly referred to as construction
or as contractor’s services; including the indoor repair, maintenance, or
storage of a contractor’s vehicles, equipment or materials for the provision of
services, which shall include but not be limited to plumbing, heating, roofing,
interior remodeling, and excavating. The use may include the contractor’s
business office.
CONVENTION CENTER: A building or portion thereof used for holding assemblies,
conferences, conventions, public meetings, seminars, trade shows, workshops, or
other similar activities. May include dining facilities for the use of
participants.
CONVERTED DWELLING: A single-family dwelling which has been converted into a
primary unit and Accessory Dwelling Unit, as provided in section 9-3-20 of this
title.
COUNTRY CLUB: A club with recreation facilities for members, their families,
and invited guests.
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE: A circular area on the ground beneath a tree having a
radius equal to one foot (1') for every one inch (1") of tree diameter at
breast height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2794.png]
 
CULTURAL FACILITY: A use operated by a public, private or non-profit
organization that is open to the public and providing cultural services and
facilities including, but not limited to cultural centers, museums, nature and
forest preserves, botanical gardens, historical societies, aquariums and
libraries.
CURRENCY EXCHANGE: A business primarily providing facilities for services
cashing checks, drafting money orders, or serving as an outlet for government
or utility services and payments.
DAMAGE, TREE: Any direct or indirect action that causes, or is reasonably
likely to cause, the death of a tree or a significant loss of a tree's
structural integrity including, but not limited to, destruction, poisoning,
carving, mutilating, girdling, severing the main trunk, leader or large
branches, touching with live wires, crushing or exposing the roots, digging or
drilling any hole or trench within the critical root zone, filling with soil or
other materials within the critical root zone, compacting a substantial portion
of the soil within the critical root zone, or flooding the critical root zone.
Without limitation to the foregoing, damage does not include the pruning of
trees.
DATA AND COMPUTER PROCESSING FACILITY: A facility where data is collected,
stored, and transmitted as information between computer users and / or other
computer services providers.
DECIBEL: A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound
level meters which are employed to measure the intensity of sound are
calibrated in decibels
DECK: An uncovered and open platform built above grade typically supported by
pillars or posts. Decks may or may not be attached to a principal or accessory
structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2796.png]
 
DENSITY: The density is the ratio determined as follows: Number of dwelling
units (Divided by) Total lot area exclusive of all streets (sq. ft.) This ratio
is used in determining overall densities when area developments are proposed
without regard to individual lots.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate.
DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (dbh): The diameter of the trunk of a tree measured
in inches at a point four and one-half feet (4.5') above the ground. This point
of measurement is used for existing trees. The dbh for a multi-trunked tree
that splits below four and one-half feet (4 1/2') but whose trunks share a
common base shall equal the combined dbh of all of the trunks and shall count
as one tree. Trunks that split at ground level and that do not share a common
base shall each be measured as a separate tree.
DISABLED: A person who has a chronic condition which:
   A.   Is atributable to a mental and/or physical impairment.
   B.   Is likely to continue indefinitely.
   C.   Results in substantial functional limitations in three (3) or more of
the following areas of major life activity: self-activity, receptive and
expressive language, learning, mobility, self-direction, capacity for
independent living, and economic self-sufficiency.
   D.   Reflects the person's need for a combination and sequence of special,
interdisciplinary, or generic care, treatment or other services which are of
lifelong or extended duration.
DONATION DROP BOX: A receptacle placed outdoors used for the collection of used
clothing, shoes, books and small household items donated by the public for
redistribution by for profit and not for profit organizations and licensed by
the Village.
DRIVE AISLE: A pathway for motor vehicles through a parking area that provides
direct access to parking stalls on either or both sides of the pathway.
DRIVE-IN, DRIVE-THROUGH: Any place or business operated for the sale and
purchase at retail of food and other goods or the rendering of services which
facility is designed and equipped so as to allow its patrons to be served or
accommodated while remaining in their motor vehicle.
DRIVEWAY: A pathway for motor vehicles from a street to a building, structure,
or parking area. In residential districts, a driveway may also provide off
street parking for vehicles, however must still serve the purpose as a pathway
to a designated parking area.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed or used for residential
purposes, including single- and multiple-family uses and townhomes, but not
including house trailers, mobile homes or lodging rooms in hotels, motels or
lodging houses.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-UNIT: A dwelling containing two or more dwelling units,
which use as their principal means of egress common entryways, hallways,
stairways, or corridors. Multiple-unit dwellings have individual entries and
multiple dwellings are located in a single building.
DWELLING, SINGLE-UNIT ATTACHED: A single-family dwelling which is joined to
another dwelling at one or more sides by a party wall or walls, with each
dwelling having a separate entrance, commonly known as a duplex when two
attached units, and a townhome/rowhome when three or more attached units.
DWELLING, SINGLE UNIT DETACHED: A single dwelling unit designed exclusively for
residential use and occupancy, which is entirely surrounded by open space and
is not connected to any other dwelling unit by roof, walls or porches.
DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY: A group of rooms which has complete, permanently
installed kitchen and bath facilities and which constitutes a dwelling within a
converted dwelling that is separate from the primary unit, as provided in
section 9-3-20 of this title.
EASEMENT: A specific area of land over which a liberty, privilege or advantage
is granted by the owner to the public, a corporation or some particular person
or part of the public for specific uses and purposes and which shall be
designated a "public" or "private" easement, perpetual or for a given term and
exclusive or nonexclusive depending on the nature of the particular grant.
EAVE: The projecting lower edges of a roof, overhanging the wall of a building.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE (EV) CAPABLE: Parking spaces that have electric vehicle supply
equipment infrastructure installed that at least provides conduit for a
dedicated branch circuit originating at the service equipment and terminating
at a receptacle, junction box, or electric vehicle supply equipment adjacent to
the parking space for electric vehicle charging with 208-volt or 240-volt or
greater, 40-ampere or greater circuits.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE (EV) READY: Parking spaces that have the electrical panel
capacity and raceway with conduit to terminate in a junction box or 240-volt
charging outlet installed which will support an installed EVSE of 208-volt or
240-volt or greater, 40-ampere or greater circuits.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE SUPPLY EQUIPMENT (EVSE): Electric vehicle supply equipment" or
"EVSE" means a conductor, including an ungrounded, grounded, and equipment
grounding conductor, and electric vehicle connectors, attachment plugs, and all
other fittings, devices, power outlets, and apparatuses installed specifically
for the purpose of transferring energy between the premises wiring and the
electric vehicle.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE SUPPLY EQUIPMENT (EVSE) INSTALLED: Parking spaces that have
the electrical panel capacity and raceway with conduit to terminate in a
junction box or 240-volt charging outlet installed which will support an
installed EVSE of 208-volt or 240-volt or greater, 40-ampere or greater
circuits.
ENCROACHMENT: Any building or structure, or part thereof, in the open area
required by this chapter, excluding trees and shrubs.
EQUIPMENT RENTAL: Businesses which rent tools, construction equipment, and
similar implement. Often includes storage, maintenance, and servicing of such
equipment.
EXISTING GRADE: The grade of the existing ground surface prior to excavation or
filling.
FAA: The Federal Aviation Administration of the United States.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FACADE: The exterior walls of a building or tenant space exposed to public view
or that will be viewed by persons not within the building.
FOOD PANTRY: A facility in which the principal function is to provide food and
personal items as charity to those in need.
FAMILY: A family is:
   A.   A person living alone;
   B.   Two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption
(including foster children) living together as a housekeeping unit and
occupying a single dwelling unit;
   C.   A group of not more than five (5) persons, who need not be related by
blood, marriage or adoption (including foster children) living together as a
housekeeping unit by joint agreement; or
   D.   A group of four or more persons living in a community residence.
FENCE, CLOSED: A fence which is not an open fence; provided, that any fence
required by section
9-3-4  of this title shall be constructed in such manner so as to provide a
solid visual barrier between the uses located on the same lot as such fence and
all other surrounding uses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2798.png]
 
FENCE, OPEN: A fence, including entrance and exit gates, designed and
constructed so that the surface area of any segment of such fence contains at
least fifty percent (50%) or more of open spaces.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3159.png]
 
FINISHED GRADE: The grade of the existing ground surface upon completion of
construction or development.
FIXTURE: A complete lighting unit consisting of a lamp (or lamps) and ballast
(or ballasts) as required, together with the parts designed to distribute the
light, position and protect the lamps and connect them to the power supply. A
fixture may be referred to as a luminaire.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: For the purposes of determining floor area ratio, the floor
area of a building or buildings shall be the sum of the gross horizontal areas
of the several floors of such building or buildings measured from the exterior
faces of exterior walls or from the centerline of party walls separating two
(2) buildings. In particular, "gross floor area" shall include:
   A.   Basement space, if at least one-half (1/2) of the basement or lowest
level height is above the average grade.
   B.   Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor.
   C.   Floor space used for mechanical equipment where the structural headroom
exceeds seven and one-half feet (7.5') except equipment, open or enclosed,
located on the roof, i.e., bulkheads, water tanks and cooling towers.
   D.   Interior balconies and mezzanines.
   E.   Enclosed porches, but not terraces and breezeways.
   F.   Accessory buildings.
FLOOR AREA, NET: For the purpose of determining off street parking and loading
requirements, the net floor area of a building or buildings shall mean the sum
of the net horizontal floor area of the several floors of a building measured
from the interior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of party
walls separating two (2) buildings. The net floor area (NFA) of a building
shall include:
   A.   Basements, or portion thereof, that it designed and/or used for
functions other than storage;
   B.   Penthouse, excluding mechanical penthouses;
   C.   Attic space having headroom of seven feet six inches (7'6") or more;
   D.   Interior balconies and mezzanines;
   E.   Enclosed porches; and
   F.   Floor area devoted to storage (when located in main floor sales/work
areas or main floor backroom storage areas).
The net floor area (NFA) of a building shall not include:
   A.   Floor area occupied by mechanical, communications and electrical
equipment, including penthouses;
   B.   Stairwells, escalators and elevator shafts;
   C.   Attic space having headroom of less than seven feet six inches (7'6");
   D.   Public restrooms;
   E.   Interior off street parking and loading;
   F.   Basements, or portions thereof, that it designed and/or used for
storage;
   G.   Entrance lobbies; and
   H.   Interior covered common areas designed primarily for pedestrian
circulation.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The floor area ratio is determined as follows:
   Total gross floor area, all floors on lot (sq. ft.) ÷ Total lot area
exclusive of all streets (sq. ft.)
Total lot area includes all impermeable surface areas, including driveways,
access drives, parking areas, and sidewalks. Permeable surface areas include
all landscaped areas, landscape berms, detention/retention areas, wetlands,
etc.
FOOT-CANDLE: The unit of illuminance equal to one lumen per square foot.
FRONTAGE, LOT: The width of a lot abutting a public right-of-way, measured
along the adjoining property line.
FUNERAL HOME: An establishment engaged in undertaking services such as
preparing the dead for burial and arranging and managing funerals. The use
includes crematorium.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of the principal
building intended for and used to store private vehicles of the principal use
on the property.
GAZEBO: An accessory structure covered by a roof, and may be enclosed with
screening, intended to be used for outdoor activities.
GLARE: Lighting entering the eye directly from luminaires or indirectly from
reflective surfaces that causes visual discomfort or reduced visibility.
GOLF COURSE: A facility providing a private or public golf recreation area
along with accessory golf support services and facilities such as a driving
range, lounge, pro shop or banquet space.
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES: A building owned, operated and/or occupied
by a governmental agency to provide a governmental service to the public.
GREENHOUSE: A business whose principal use is the growing of plants, all or
part of which are sold at retail or wholesale.
GROUP HOME: See Community Residence.
HEALTH CLUB (LARGE): A facility designed for and providing physical fitness
facilities and services for large groups of people. For this definition, such
facilities are those greater than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in size
and, including a wide range of activities such as weight resistance machines,
stationary bicycles, whirlpools, group workouts, saunas, showers, lockers,
racquet courts, and swimming pools.
HEALTH CLUB (SMALL): A facility designed for and providing physical fitness
facilities and services for small groups of people and emphasizing individual
or small group training. For this definition, such facilities are those ten
thousand (10,000) square feet in size and smaller. Such facilities may include
activities such as weight resistance machines, sparring, stationary bicycles,
group workouts, and training for martial arts.
HEALTH TREATMENT CENTER: An establishment where licensed medical professionals
provide immediate care services to patients, primary on a drop in basis.
Facilities often include rooms used for the diagnosis and treatment of
illnesses and injuries that can be performed in an office setting, but do not
include overnight care.
HELIPORT: A designated area on the ground or on a building meeting the
specifications of the federal aviation administration for the exclusive use of
landing and takeoff of helicopters, excluding service and/or refueling
buildings or facilities.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any business, profession, or occupation engaged in by the
resident(s) of a dwelling unit at or from the dwelling unit.
HOSPITAL: An institution providing health, medical and surgical facilities, for
diagnostic, mental, and medical treatment (both surgical and nonsurgical) to
inpatients with a variety of medical conditions. These establishments maintain
inpatient beds, provide patients with food services and an organized staff of
physicians and other medical personnel to provide patient care services. These
establishments commonly provide outpatient, diagnostic, clinical laboratory,
and pharmacy services.
HOTEL: A building designed for transient occupancy, containing lodging rooms or
suites accessible from a common interior hall or entrance, providing living,
sleeping and sanitary facilities. A central kitchen, meeting rooms, dining room
and recreation room are generally provided.
HOTEL, EXTENDED STAY: A building designed for extended occupancy for up to one
year, containing lodging rooms or suites accessible from a common interior hall
or entrance, providing living, sleeping, kitchenette and sanitary facilities. A
central kitchen, meeting rooms, dining room and recreation room are generally
provided.
ILLUMINANCE: A measure of how much light is falling onto a surface, typically
measured in foot-candles.
INCOMBUSTIBLE: A material which will not ignite nor actively support combustion
during an exposure for five (5) minutes to a temperature of one thousand two
hundred degrees Fahrenheit (1,200°F).
INDOOR RECREATION FACILITY: A building or facility designed and equipped for
the conduct of sports, leisure time activities, educational and community
activities, and other recreation activities, including, but not limited to,
bowling alleys, skating rinks, swimming pools, and dance halls.
INDOOR RETAIL SALES: Sale of any product or merchandise to customers for their
own personal consumption or use, not for resale.
ISLAND: An area of ground within the boundary of any parking lot which has
curbing adjacent to paved areas. Planting islands are used for traffic control
and provide space for landscaping which helps screen and shade parking lots.
KELVIN: A unit increment of temperature and is used as a color temperature
scale of a light bulb (symbol "K").
KENNEL: Any premises or portion thereof where four (4) or more domestic animals
over four (4) months of age are kept or boarded for compensation and which does
not include the provision of medical care.
LATTICE TOWER: A tower characterized by an open framework of lateral cross
members, which stabilize the tower.
LANDSCAPING POND: A pond that is not required or primary used for stormwater
management.
LAUNDRY DRYING EQUIPMENT: A system of poles and lines accessory to a
residential property used to dry laundry in the outdoors.
LIGHT: Radiant energy that can be sensed or seen by the human eye.
LIGHT FIXTURE, FULLY SHIELDED: A light fixture constructed and installed in
such a manner that all light emited by the fixture, either directly from the
bulb or a diffusing element, or indirectly by reflection or refraction from any
part of the fixture, is projected below the horizontal plane through the
fixture's lowest light emitting part.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2802.png]
 
LIGHT OUTPUT: The power emited from a source of electromagnetic radiation, such
as a light bulb, in the form of visible light. Light output is measured in
lumens and is typically specified by the manufacturer for a given lamp or
luminaire. Typical light output values for incandescent bulbs are:
   A.   100W: 1550 lumens
   B.   75W: 1080 lumens
   C.   60W: 780 lumens
   D.   40W: 450 lumens
LIGHTED OUTDOOR SPORTS FACILITY: An open area of land used for outdoor sports
games and practices that is illuminated to allow such activities in the evening
hours.
FREE LIBRARY: Accessory structures for the purpose of storing books for
exchange within neighborhoods and for the general public and promoting access
to reading materials.
LOADING, OFF STREET: A space, accessible from a street, alley or way, in a
building or on a lot, for the use of trucks while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials.
LOGISTICS FACILITY: See WAREHOUSE
LOGO: A distinctive symbol which identifies a business.
LOT: A single parcel of land established through a plat of subdivision or
defined as a zoning lot, abutting and have access to an existing public street.
LOT AREA: The area of horizontal plane within the property lines of a lot.
LOT COVERAGE: That area of a lot or parcel which is covered by buildings and/or
other structures. In business and industrial zoning districts parking lots
shall not be considered structures for lot coverage calculations.
LOT DEPTH: The depth of a lot or parcel as measured along a straight line
connecting the midpoint of the front lot line to the midpoint of the rear lot
line.
LOT LINE: A property boundary line of a lot; except, that where any portion of
a lot extends into the abutting street or sidewalk, the lot line shall be
deemed to be the street line.
LOT LINE, EXTERIOR SIDE: A lot line that abuts a street and is not a front lot
line or a rear lot line. If the exterior side lot line abuts a front lot line
on a curve, the exterior side lot line shall extend to the midpoint of the
curve.
LOT LINE, FRONT: A lot line which abuts a street. On a lot abutting two (2) or
more streets, the front lot line shall be the shortest lot line abutting a
street. If the front lot line abuts an exterior side lot line on a curve, the
front lot line shall extend to the midpoint of the curve. On through lots
abutting two streets, both sides abutting streets should be treated as front
lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3161.png]
 
LOT LINE, INTERIOR SIDE: A lot line which abuts another lot and which is not a
front lot line or a rear lot line.
LOT LINE, REAR: A lot line or lot lines most distant from and most nearly
parallel to the front lot line.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot, the rear of which abuts the side of another
lot.
LOT, THROUGH CORNER: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets, and on the third street which is perpendicular or
approximately perpendicular to the other two (2) streets.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3163.png]
 
LOT WIDTH: The distance of line measured perpendicular to a straight line
connecting the midpoint of the front lot line with the midpoint of the rear lot
line and intersecting with the front yard setback. In no case shall the front
lot line be less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the required lot width in
the applicable district.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3165.png]
 
LOT, ZONING: A tract of land consisting of individual parcels located within a
block, under single ownership, and with one (1) principal building.
LUMENS: The unit of measurement used to quantify the amount of light produced
by a bulb or emitted from a fixture.
LUMINAIRE: See FIXTURE.
LUMINANCE: The brightness or the amount of light coming off of a surface in a
given direction, typically measured in candela per square meter (abbreviated as
cd/m2).
MANUFACTURING: The production of articles for use from raw or prepared
materials by giving such materials new forms, qualities, properties or
combinations, whether by hand labor or machine.
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external soti parts
of the body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical electrical
apparatus or appliances with or without rubbing alcohol, liniments,
antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions, ointments or other similar
preparations used in this practice, under such circumstances that it is
reasonably expected that the person to whom treatment is provided, or some
third party on such person's behalf, will pay money or give other consideration
or any gratuity therefor.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: As defined in title 3,
chapter 13  of this Code.
MEDICAL OFFICES: A medical and / or dental facility used for offices of one or
more than one doctor for the examination and treatment of patients. Such
facility shall not provide beds or other accommodations for the overnight stay
of patients.
MEDICAL SPA (or MED SPA): A business with characteristics of both a medical use
and a beauty day spa. The facility often provides aesthetic (non-surgical)
medical services performed a licensed physician or supervised and qualified
practitioners. No overnight stays are part of this facilities services.
MICROBREWERY: A manufacturer of alcoholic malt beverages of up to fifteen
thousand (15,000) barrels per year for the purpose of wholesale distribution of
a majority of its product with incidental sales of up to three thousand (3,000)
barrels to the public for on-site consumption or carryout. The microbrewery
facility may include an ancillary tasting room and retail sales in which
guests/customers may sample and purchase the product(s) associated with the
facility's use, and/or products manufactured on-site.
MICRODISTILLERY: A small-scale artisan manufacturing business that blends,
ferments, processes, packages, and distributes alcoholic spirits on the
premises. The microdistillery facility may include an ancillary tasting room
and retail component in which guests/customers may sample and purchase the
product(s) associated with the facility's use, and/or products manufactured on-
site. Operation of the facility shall be consistent with Illinois State law
regarding “Craft Distillers”.
MICROWINERY: Combination retail, wholesale and small-scale artisan
manufacturing business that blends, ferments, processes, packages, and
distributes wine for sale on or off-site. The microwinery facility may include
an ancillary tasting room and retail component in which guests/customers may
sample and purchase the product associated with the facility's use, and/or
products manufactured onsite. Operation of the facility shall be consistent
with Illinois State law regarding “Second Class Wine Makers”.
MONOPOLE TOWER: A tower that is a single upright pole engineered to be self-
supporting that does not require lateral cross support or guys.
MONUMENT SALES: An establishment involved, in part or in whole, in the retail
sale of tombstones, gravestones, burial monuments, and other similar items.
MOTEL: A building offering transient occupancy, containing lodging rooms
directly accessible from an exterior hall or entrance, providing living,
sleeping and sanitary facilities, whether the establishment is designated as a
hotel, inn, automobile court, motor inn, motor lodge, tourist court or
otherwise.
NATURE PRESERVE. An outdoor recreational facility that maintains and protects
environmental features, or resources to ensure that the space remains in a
predominately natural or undeveloped state. The preserved open space may
include passive recreation and environmental education for the public.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign, lawful prior to the effective date hereof, which
does not comply with all of the regulations of this title or any amendment
hereto governing the use of signs.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure lawfully established which:
   A.   Does not comply with all the regulations of this title governing the
bulk of structures located within any given district; or
   B.   Is designed or intended for nonconforming use.
NONCONFORMING USE: A structure and the use thereof or the use of land that does
not comply with the regulations of this title governing use in the district in
which it is located, but which conformed with all of the codes, ordinances and
other legal requirements applicable at the time such structure was erected,
enlarged or altered, and the use thereof or the use of land was established.
NOXIOUS MATTER: Material which is capable of causing injury to living organisms
by chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects upon the
psychological, social or economic wellbeing of human beings.
OCCUPANT: Any person who is in possession of any space within a building or
land.
ODOROUS MATTER: Any material that produces an olfactory response among human
beings.
OFFICE, BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL: Any building, containing one or more
businesses, used primarily for conducting the administrative affairs of a
business, profession, service industry, or government, or like activity.
OFFICIAL MAP OF THE VILLAGE OF WOODRIDGE or OFFICIAL MAP: The compilation of
maps, standards and specifications of and for existing and proposed rights-of-
way, streets, alleys, utility easements, public grounds and public utility
systems within the village or within the unincorporated area lying within one
and one-half miles of its boundaries as they may from time to time exist,
prepared and recommended by the plan commission with the advice and assistance
of the zoning officer and adopted by the village board by ordinance duly
enacted, together with such amendments thereto as may be adopted from time to
time.
ON-PREMISES CANNABIS CONSUMPTION ESTABLISHMENT: A cannabis dispensary or retail
tobacco store (as defined in Section 10 of the Smoke Free Illinois Act)
authorized or permitted to allow the onpremises consumption of cannabis.”
OPEN SIDED SUMMER HOUSE: A permanent accessory structure which includes a roof,
no permanent walls and may include outdoor cooking facilities.
OPEN SPACE: Land unoccupied by structures, buildings, streets, rights of way
and automobile parking lots and designed and intended for the use or enjoyment
of residents of a planned unit development. Open space may contain structures
for recreational use.
OUTDOOR RECREATION FACILITIES (PRIVATE): Recreational uses conducted primarily
or wholly outdoors and is privately owned and operated for use by the general
public or subscribed members, including golf courses.
OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL FACILITIES (PUBLIC): Any public land that is predominately
open space and that is designated to serve the recreational needs of the
community, including golf courses. The facilities and structures allowed shall
be limited to those related to and necessary for active and passive recreation.
In addition, the following accessory structures shall be permitted: picnic
shelters, benches, restrooms, concessions, drinking fountains, and sculptures.
PARCEL (OR TRACT): A continuous area or acreage of land which can be described
as provided for in the plat act 2.
PARKING SPACE: A surfaced and permanently maintained area on privately or
publicly owned property, either within or outside of a building to store one
automobile or similar vehicle.
PARKING LOT: An off-street, surfaced, ground level open area where motor
vehicles are temporarily stored, where a fee may or may not be charged.
PARTICULATE MATTER: Material which is suspended in or discharged into the
atmosphere in finely divided form as a liquid or a solid at atmospheric
pressure and temperature.
PATIO: An unenclosed surface area located at the finished lot grade, usually
constructed of concrete or masonry materials.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2810.png]
 
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: A criterion to control impacts such as noise, odor,
smoke, toxic or noxious mater, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare
or heat generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
PERGOLA: See ARBOR.
PERSON: In addition to a natural person, the term person includes the
following: partnership, firm, association, organization, trust, trustee,
estate, legal representative of an estate, trust company, financial
institution, corporation, governmental unit or agency.
PERSONAL SERVICES: Uses that provide a variety of non-medical services
associated with periodic, recurrent, and individual needs, including but not
limited to personal grooming, clothing maintenance, and personal support
activities. The use includes business such as massage therapy, med spas, and
permanent makeup.
PERSONAL WATERCRAFT: Any vessel used for travel upon or through water that uses
an inboard motor powering a water jet pump as its primary source of motor power
and that is designed to be operated by a person siting, standing, or kneeling
on the vessel, rather than the conventional manner of siting or standing inside
the vessel, and includes vessels that are similar in appearance and operation
but are powered by an outboard or propeller drive motor.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITY: Any facility of whatever kind or nature
that receives, transmits or relays radio or microwave signals for cellular, PCS
or other similar service. This shall include any installation or mounting
structure or equipment and any appurtenant electronics necessary for the
operation of the facility. This definition shall be inclusive of the definition
of personal wireless service facility set forth in 47 USC 332(c)(7)(C), as
amended now or in the future.
PET CARE SERVICES: Facilities that provide services for dogs and cats, such as
daycare, grooming or obedience training. This does not include medical services
or overnight kenneling of animals.
PICK UP WINDOW: An element of a drive-through facility where customers, in
their cars, are provided purchased goods by an employee from inside the
building.
PLACE OF WORSHIP: Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is
used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A tract of land developed under single ownership or
unified control, and considered by the Village as a special use with detailed
review of individual proposals for the potential relaxation of otherwise
applicable requirements.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PLAT: A pat of development prepared and provided as part of
a planned development review process.
PLANTINGS, PRAIRIE OR WETLAND: Those plants identified by the U.S. geological
survey (USGS) or the environmental protection agency (EPA) as natural prairie
or wetland species.
PLAT: A map or chart of a subdivision of land.
PLAT ACT: 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes, as amended.
PLAT, FINAL: A map of all or part of a subdivision providing substantial
conformance with the requirements of the plat act and this title and for
recording by the county recorder.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A map showing all requisite details of a proposed
subdivision submitted to an approving authority for purposes of preliminary
consideration, prepared in conformance with the plat act and this title.
PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT: An appurtenant structure located on the ground and
intended for recreational or athletic use including, but not limited to:
playhouses, sandboxes, swing sets, trampolines and jungle gym.
PLAYHOUSE: A detached accessory structure used for children's play and
socializing.
PORCH: A roofed platform projecting from the wall of a building and having
direct access to or from the building to which it is attached. A porch has no
solid walls other than the wall of the building to which it is attached.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2812.png]
 
PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS: A portable storage unit designed and used
exclusively for the storage of personal property which is designed to be
delivered to a customer's house for on location packing and subsequent pick-up
and delivery to a storage facility.
PREMISES: Any improved or unimproved property.
PRIMARY UNIT: That portion of a converted dwelling which is not part of the
accessory unit.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS: Construction of or enhancement to public infrastructure or
facilities that may include but not be limited to grading, street surfacing,
curbs and gutter, sidewalks, walkways, crosswalks, water mains, fire hydrants,
water system, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, stormwater management structures
and lands, culverts, bridges, or streetlights.
PUBLIC STREETLIGHT: A luminaire or light installation designed and used to
illuminate a public right of way.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department, board or
commission, duly authorized to furnish, and furnishing under governmental
regulations to the public: gas, steam, electricity, sewage disposal,
communication, telegraph, transportation or water. Aboveground service facility
owners, operators, managers, and controllers shall be deemed to be public
utilities.
RACKING: A method of storing a chassis on end in an upright position where the
bed is perpendicular to the ground.
RAIN BARREL: An aboveground storage tank that collects rainwater from rootiop
gutter downspouts and stores it for later use.
RECYCLING CENTER: A facility at which recoverable resources from used materials
and products are purchased, collected, or processed to a condition for reuse.
Often includes temporary storage prior to delivery or sale to other locations.
REMOVAL, TREE: The physical detachment or elimination of a tree, or the
effective detachment or elimination of a tree, through damage or otherwise.
Removal does not include maintenance of trees.
RENTAL, SHORT TERM RESIDENTIAL: A dwelling or portion thereof available for or
used as accommodations or lodging for guests paying a fee or other compensation
for fewer than thirty (30) consecutive days.
RESTAURANT: A retail establishment serving food to individuals and/or groups.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FACILITY. A facility in which a wide range of goods
and materials are analyzed, tested, experimented on and assessed for further
development. Often includes scientific research, investigation, testing or
experimentation, but not manufacturing, assembling or sale of products, except
as incidental to the main purpose of the facility.
RETAIL SALES, INDOOR: Sale of any product or merchandise to customers for their
own personal consumption or use, not for resale.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Area dedicated to or owned by a public body. In the case of
public streets, the right-of-way normally includes the curbs, lawn strips, and
lighting, sidewalks, and drainage facilities and may include special features
such as grade separation, landscaped area, viaducts, and bridges.
SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE: An institution conducting regular academic
instruction at kindergarten, elementary, junior high or senior high school
levels, operated by governmental or non-governmental organizations.
SCREENING: A solid wall, fence or densely planted compact hedge for shielding
or obscuring the area behind it from viewers.
SELF-STORAGE FACILITY: A standalone building designed and used exclusively for
the storage of personal property of persons who own and/or lease portions of
said building. At least seventy-five percent (75%) of the units are required to
have interior access.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance required between a lot line and uses
on a lot as measured from the lot line.
SETBACK, BUILDING: The minimum horizontal distance between a lot line and a
principal building on a lot as measured from the lot line.
SHED: A storage structure for household tools and equipment, which may or may
not include a permanent foundation.
SHELTER: An accessory structure not exceeding one hundred and sixty-eight (168)
square feet providing protection from elements to people utilizing the site.
SHIELDED: A light fixture in which the lamp is not in sight from normal viewing
angles. All fully shielded and full cut-off fixtures are considered to be
shielded.
SHOPPING CENTER: Any concentration of two (2) or more retail stores and/or
service establishments in one or more buildings under single ownership or
management, with common parking facilities.
SHRUB, LOW: Any shrub, with a minimum planting height of eighteen inches (18”),
which atains a mature height of four feet (4’) or less when leti unpruned.
SHRUB, TALL: Any shrub, with a minimum planting height of twenty-four inches
(24”), which atains a mature height greater than four feet (4’) when left
unpruned.
SHRUB, LARGE: See SHRUB, TALL
SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE: A triangular-shaped portion of land bounded by the
right-of-way lines at the intersection and a line connecting the two (2) points
on the subject zoning property in which construction, placement and planting
may be limited so as to not obstruct the vision of motorists entering or
leaving the intersection.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3167.png]
 
SIGN: Any object or device containing letters, figures, and/or other means of
communication or part thereof, situated outdoors or indoors, of which the
effect produced is to advertise, announce, communicate, identify, declare,
demonstrate, display, and/or instruct potential users of a use, product, and/or
service.
SIGN, ANIMATED: Any sign, or any part thereof which changes physical position
by means of movement, rotation or change in illumination to depict movement.
SIGN, AWNING: A sign that is mounted, painted, or attached to an awning or
other window or door canopy. Any projecting canvas or other material over a
structural framework used for a small amount of shelter or shade on a façade
that has signage displayed on the visible surface.
SIGN, BLADE OR SHINGLE: A sign which projects from a vertically oriented wall.
SIGN, BANNER: A temporary advertising sign which is not attached to a
permanently mounted backing.
SIGN CLEARANCE: Sign clearance is the distance between the bottom of a sign
face or structural element that is not affixed to the ground and the nearest
point on the surface underneath it. See Section
9-11-3 -A-2.
SIGN, DIRECTIONAL: Any sign on a lot that directs the movement or placement of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic with or without reference to, or inclusion of,
the name of a product sold or service performed on the lot or in a building,
structure, or business enterprise occupying the same.
SIGN, DRIVE-THROUGH: A wall sign, monument sign, or pole sign located adjacent
to a drive-through land or drive-in establishment and oriented toward drive-
through traffic.
SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE: A sign which exhibits changing and/or illuminated
messages.
SIGN, KIOSK: A freestanding sign structure used for posting other signs or
information.
SIGN, MARQUEE: A permanent roof-like structure made of durable, rigid material
extending from the entrance of a building over a pedestrian or vehicular
thoroughfare. A marquee is supported by the exterior wall of the building and
contains is designed to have changeable copy letters, either electronically or
manually.
SIGN MESSAGE: The thought or idea conveyed or expressed by the words, letters,
insignia, figures, designs, fixtures, colors, motion, illumination, sound, or
projecting images or any combination thereof.
SIGN, MONUMENT: A freestanding sign, other than a pole sign, in which the
entire bottom is in contact with or close to the ground.
SIGN, NEON: A sign consisting of glass tubing, bent to form letters, symbols,
or other shapes and illuminated by neon or a similar gas through which an
electrical voltage is discharged.
SIGN, OFF-PREMISE: A sign advertising a land use, business, product, or service
not located or available upon the premises where the sign is located.
SIGN, PERMANENT: A sign constructed of durable material and affixed, lettered,
attached to, or placed upon a fixed, nonmovable, nonportable supporting
structure.
SIGN, POLE: A freestanding sign that is affixed, attached, or erected on a pole
or poles and that is not itself an integral part of or attached to a building
or structure.
SIGN, PORTABLE: A sign that is designed to be easily moved from one location to
another, and when placed, is neither fastened to a permanent structure or
building, nor mounted in the ground. Portable signs include signs mounted on
trailers, wheeled carriers, or frames that are designed to be placed onto a
surface without being secured to it.
SIGN, ROOF: A sign erected, constructed or maintained in whole or in part upon
or over the roof of a building or structure. Roof signs shall not include those
signs maintained upon the lower slope of a mansard roof which do not extend
above the uppermost point of the lower slope. Such signs shall be classified as
"wall signs".
SIGN, SIDEWALK: A type of portable sign that is intended to be placed on a hard
surface, most commonly a sidewalk. These signs include A-frame signs, signs
that are suspended from the top member of an A-frame, signs with weighted
bases, and comparable signs. See Illustrative Sidewalk Signs, below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3175.png]
 
SIGN, SITE: A temporary freestanding sign constructed of vinyl, plastic, wood,
or metal and designed or intended to be displayed for a short period of time.
SIGN, SOCK: A temporary sign constructed of flexible material, designed to fit
over a permanent sign face or mount. Sock signs are typically installed while a
new permanent sign is being designed and fabricated.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3173.png]
 
SIGN STRUCTURE: A sign structure shall include, but not be limited to, the
supports, uprights, braces, backing, sign board, and framework designed to
contain a sign message. Sign structure is not meant to include the message
conveyed by the sign.
SIGN, SWING: A sign that is suspended from a horizontal support (a swingpost)
that is attached to a vertical support mounted in the ground. A swing sign may
also include riders. See Illustrative Swing Signs, below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3171.png]
 
SIGN, VEHICLE: A sign attached to or painted on a vehicle parked and visible
from the public right-of-way, unless said vehicle is used for transporting
people or materials in the normal operations of the business and is properly
parked in a designated parking space. Signs attached to trailers or inoperable
vehicles are presumed to be vehicle signs if they are parked in plain view from
the right-of-way. Bumper stickers are not vehicle signs. Illustrative Vehicle
Sign In the illustration below, the sign on the pickup truck is not a “vehicle
sign,” because the pickup truck is operable and properly parked in a parking
space. The sign on the delivery truck is a “vehicle sign” because the truck is
parked across parking spaces adjacent to the right-of-way, and the intent to
use the position of the truck to display the sign is presumed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3169.png]
 
SIGN, WALL: A sign attached to, painted on, or erected against a wall of a
building, whose display surface is parallel to the face of the building,
structure, or fence, and whose height does not exceed the height of the wall,
structure, or fence to which said sign is attached, painted upon, or against
which said sign is erected.
SIGN, WINDOW: A sign which is applied or attached to the exterior of a window,
or applied to, attached to, or located within one foot of the interior of a
window, which can be seen through the window from the exterior of the
structure.
SIGN, YARD: A temporary portable sign constructed of paper, vinyl, plastic,
wood, metal, or other comparable material, and designed or intended to be
displayed for a short period of time.
SKETCH PLAN: A map indicating the proposed layout of the subdivision in
sufficient detail to provide adequate basis for review and to meet the
requirements and procedures set forth in this title.
SKILLED CARE FACILITY: An establishment for the care of the aged,
rehabilitating, or infirm that provides some degree of professional care,
continuous nursing observations, restorative nursing, and other services
including assisted senior living, skilled senior living, memory care, and
extended stay physical rehabilitation. Staff persons provide on-site care,
training, or support for the residents. These facilities are commonly
designated as, assisted living, or skilled/memory care.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
   A.   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six cubic
feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements, the
antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary enclosure
of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and
   B.   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than twenty-five (25)
cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: Electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
SMOKE: Small gas borne particles other than water that form a visible plume in
the air.
SMOKE SHOP: A business establishment that offers smoking cigars, cigaretes,
vaping or smoking from a communal pipe device.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES): A system that uses the power of the sun to capture,
distribute and/or store energy for on-site consumption of utility power.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND MOUNTED: A solar energy system that is not attached
to another structure and is affixed to the ground.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ROOF MOUNTED: A solar energy system affixed to the roof of
a principal or accessory structure.
SOLAR SHINGLES: Photovoltaic shingles that directly integrate with typical
asphalt shingles which serve as a conventional shingle for weather protection,
while generating clean solar electricity to a building.
SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: The intensity of sound or noise in decibels.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS:
   A.   Less than completely or opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and/or
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
or opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
   B.   Acts or representations of acts of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse or sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or erotic or
sexual oriented torture, beating or infliction of pain;
   C.   Fondling, kissing or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts; and/or
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activity set
forth in subsections A through C of this definition.
SPORT COURT: An area or structure designated for active recreation, such as
basketball courts, tennis courts, and ice and hockey rinks. Such activities
taking place in a residential driveway do not constitute this area or
structure.
STACKING: A method of storing multiple cargo containers or chassis on top of
each other in a vertical manner where the floor of the containers or chassis
remain parallel to the ground.
STEALTH DESIGN: A personal wireless service facility that is designed or
located in such a way that the antennas and/or towers are camouflaged,
concealed, disguised and otherwise not readily recognizable as
telecommunications equipment. Examples of stealth design include concealing
antenna in clock towers, bell steeples, on light poles, and integrating antenna
into architectural elements on buildings by color, shape or location on the
building.
STOOP: A raised platform, approached by steps and sometimes having a roof, but
not enclosed, at the entrance to a building.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the floor surface and the
surface of the next floor or roof above; provided that space has a height of
not less than seven feet (7’).
   A.   Space used exclusively for the housing of mechanical services for the
building and having access limited to maintenance purposes only, shall not be
construed as a story.
   B.   A story may have differing or “split” levels, in which case, the floor
levels which have the least difference in floor level (5 feet or less) shall be
construed as being the same story.
   C.   A mezzanine shall be construed as a story if its area exceeds one-third
(1/3) of the floor directly below it, or if the vertical distance from the
floor below the mezzanine to the floor or roof above the mezzanine exceeds
twenty-three feet (23’).
   D.   Basements, as determined from the average grade and habitable atic
areas shall not be considered stories for the purpose of determining building
height for single-family detached dwellings.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall not more than three feet (3’) above the top floor level,
and in which space not more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area is
completed for the principal or accessory uses.
STREET: A paved public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term
“street” includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, pike,
avenue, boulevard, lane, place, drive, court, and similar designations, but
excludes alleys or way for pedestrian use only.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, reconstructed, or erected or any production or
piece of work manmade or composed of parts joined together in some definite
manner, the use of which requires permanent or temporary location on or in the
ground or requires attachment to something having a permanent location in or
upon the ground.
STRUCTURE, NONCONFORMING: A structure which does not comply in some respect
with the lot size requirements or bulk regulations applicable to new structures
in the zoning district in which it is located.
STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY: A structure without any foundation or footings and which
is removed when the designated time period, activity, or use for which the
temporary structure was erected has ceased.
SUBDIVIDER: A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
combination thereof or their agents, who shall seek to subdivide or partition a
parcel or tract of land as hereinafter regulated, or who shall seek to develop
a heretofore subdivided parcel or tract which has not been improved in
accordance with the standards and specifications incorporated herein.
SUBDIVISION: The partitioning, dividing, or consolidating of a parcel or tract
of land by the subdivider thereof or by his heirs, executors, administrators,
legal representatives, successors or assigns, where the act of division creates
a subdivision not exempt under the provisions of 765 Illinois Compiled
Statutes.
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE: The subdivision regulations ordinance for the Village of
Woodridge, Illinois. See Title 10.
TATTOO PARLOR: An establishment performing compensated tatooing service which
means a placement in human tissue of any indelible design, leter, scroll,
figure, symbol, or other mark placed with the aid of needles or other
instruments; or any design, leter, scroll, figure, or symbol done by scarring
upon or under the skin.
TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER: Any freestanding structure that is designed and
constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas. This
term includes, but is not limited to, radio and television transmission towers,
microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular phone towers, alternative
tower structures, and other wireless communication towers. For the purpose of
this title, all telecommunication towers are considered wireless communication
facilities.
TEMPORARY CONTRACTOR AND CONSTRUCTION TRAILER: A non-permanent structure
located on the site of a development or construction project to be used for
management of the development or construction project and located on the site
for a time concurrent with the associated construction.
TEMPORARY SEASONAL SALES (OUTDOOR): Temporary outdoor retail operations and
displays of items that are sold during a specific season, including such items
as Christmas trees, pumpkins, watermelons, sweet corn, and budding plants.
TERRACE: A level plane or platform which is located adjacent to one or more
faces of the principal structure, above the average level of the adjoining
ground, and which is not roofed.
TOBACCO RETAILER: A retail facility in which greater than fifty percent (50%)
of all sales are for any product containing or made from tobacco, nicotine,
alternative nicotine products, electronic cigarettes, and other inhalation
devices intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means.
Tobacco retail includes any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product,
whether or not sold separately, and does not include any onsite consumption.
TOWER: Includes any structure built for the sole or primary purpose of
supporting a personal wireless service facility.
TOXIC MATERIALS: A substance (liquid, solid or gaseous) which, by reason of an
inherent deleterious property, tends to destroy life or impair health.
TRAILERS: Every vehicle without motive power in operation, designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so
constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRAINING STUDIO: A facility for teaching people various cultural or artistic
skills, and similar activities.
TREE: Any self-supporting, woody plant with its root system, growing upon the
earth usually with one trunk supporting a generally well defined crown.
TREE, CLASS ONE: Any tree that is not a class two tree or that is otherwise
deemed desirable by the director of community development due to local or
historical significance, significant environmental value or other similar
atribute.
TREE, CLASS TWO: Trees that are weak wooded, prone to rot, prone to disease or
insect problems, invasive, or that are otherwise deemed undesirable by the
director of community development, including, but not limited to: non-hybrid
American elm, Siberian elm, European birch, black locust, Russian olive, box
elder, buckthorn, cotonwood, Lombardy poplar, white poplar, mulberry, willow,
Osage orange, tree of heaven, and silver maple.
TREE, DECIDUOUS: A tree that sheds its foliage annually.
TREE, EVERGREEN: A tree that has live foliage on its branches year-round.
TREE, QUALIFYING: An existing live tree growing in the earth that falls into
any of the categories listed below:
   A.   Deciduous trees with a minimum size of six inches (6”) in dbh.
   B.   Evergreen trees with a minimum size of twelve feet (12’) in height.
   C.   Any other tree designated to be preserved on an approved tree
preservation plan.
TREE, REPLACEMENT: A nursery grown, deciduous tree in excellent condition with
a minimum caliper of three inches (3”), properly balled and burlapped and
satisfying the standards established for nursery stock and installation thereof
set forth by the American Association of Nurserymen. It shall be of a species
normally grown in northeastern Illinois and capable of withstanding site
microclimates and shall meet the definition of a class one tree.
TRELLIS: See ARBOR
TRUCK REPAIR: Any building or portion of one where commercial semi- trucks and
trailers are maintained, repaired, or otherwise serviced for regular
maintenance.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended or for which it is occupied or maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: An accessory use is a structure and/or use which:
   A.   Is subordinate to and serves a principal structure or use;
   B.   Is subordinate in area, extent, intensity and/or purpose to the
principal structure or use served;
   C.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of the occupants
of, or of the business or industry located in or on the principal structure
and/or use served; and
   D.   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal structure and/or use
served.
USE, ANCILLARY: See, USE, ACCESSORY.
UTILITIES: Infrastructure functions, public or private, related, but are not
limited to, water and wastewater treatment facilities, electrical services,
cable, cell or land line phone, natural gas, and water storage facilities that
may have visual or operational impacts on nearby areas.
VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL: Any vehicle requiring a “C” license plate or higher
operated for the transportation of persons or property in the furtherance of
any commercial or industrial enterprise, for hire or not for hire.
VEHICLE, OFF ROAD: Any vehicle intended principally for recreational off road
use, including, but not limited to, a dune buggy, go-cart, all-terrain vehicle
(ATV), off highway motorcycle or snowmobile.
VEHICLE, RECREATIONAL: Any camping trailer, motor home, mini- motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes and not used commercially. The terms found in this definition shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them as provided in the Illinois
vehicle code.
VETERINARIAN OFFICE: See ANIMAL HOSPITAL.
VILLAGE BOARD: The mayor and board of trustees of the Village of Woodridge. See
Title 1,
Chapter 5 .
WAREHOUSE: A building or structure or part thereof used principally for the
storage of goods and/or merchandise and their distribution to other storage
facilities or end users.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY: An unstaffed facility for the transmission
and/or reception of radio frequency (RF) signals. The facility may consist of:
transmission and reception devices, a support structure, ancillary equipment
(cable, conduit, connectors), and/or an equipment enclosure used to house and
protect the necessary electronic equipment as support structures for antennas
and/or towers only.
YARD: Areas required on any lot which are unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level upward, except for permitted obstructions as otherwise provided
for in this title, and which extend along a lot line and at right angles
thereto a depth or width as specified by the bulk regulations for the district
in which the lot is located.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2824.png]
YARD, EXTERIOR SIDE (STREET): A required yard adjoining a street which extends
the full depth of a lot, along an exterior side lot line, excluding the area
within a front yard.
YARD, FRONT: A required yard which extends the full width of a lot along a
front lot line.
YARD, INTERIOR SIDE: A required yard adjoining another lot which extends the
full depth of a lot along an interior side lot line, excluding the areas within
a front yard and/or rear yard.
YARD, LANDSCAPE: Areas required on any lot which are occupied by landscaping
and which extend along a lot line and at right angles thereto a depth or width
as specified elsewhere in this title.
YARD, REAR: A required yard which extends the full width of a lot along a rear
lot line excluding the area within an exterior side yard.
ZONING MAP: The map entitled, “official zoning map, Village of Woodridge,
Illinois”, as amended from time to time, indicating the location and boundaries
of the districts established by this title, together with all explanatory mater
thereon.
ZONING OFFICER: The duly appointed and acting Director of Community Development
or their designee. See Section
9-15-1-1  and Title 1,
chapter 6 , article F of this code. (1976 Code § 22-1-4; amd. Ord. 86-63, §§ 1
- 7; Ord. 90-55, 8-23-1990; Ord. 90-83, 12-13-1990; Ord. 91-13, 4-11-1991; 1991
Code; Ord. 92-06, 3-12-1992; Ord. 94-20, 3-24-1994; Ord. 96-25, 6-13-1996; Ord.
99-63, 11-11-1999; Ord. 99-64, 12-9-1999; Ord. 99-65, 10-14-1999; Ord. 2001-02,
1-25-2001; Ord. 2002-50, 12-12-2002; Ord. 2003-17, 4-24-2003; Ord. 2004-10, 3-
18-2004; Ord. 2004-49, 7-15-2004; Ord. 2005-47, 8-18-2005; Ord. 2005-49, 9-1-
2005; Ord. 2007-16, 4-5-2007; Ord. 2007-49, 9-6-2007; Ord. 2009-31, 7-16-2009;
Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-2010; Ord. 2011-21, 5-12-2011; Ord. 2011-40, 8-25-2011; Ord.
2011-43, 9-8-2011; Ord. 2013-53, 10-24-2013; Ord. 2014-36, 6-12-2014; Ord.
2015-11, 3-5-2015; Ord. 2015-72, 12-17-2015; Ord. 2016-2, 1-21-2016; Ord. 2017-
51, 9-21-2017; Ord. 2021-32, 10-21-2021; Ord. 2022-41, 7-21-2022; Ord. 2024-6,
3-7-2024; Ord. 2024-44, 8-1-2024)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Introduction And Purpose
9-3-2: Lots
9-3-3: Permitted Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses
9-3-4: Fences
9-3-5: Sight Distance Triangle
9-3-6:    Private Power Generators
9-3-7: Home Occupations
9-3-8: Regulations For Recreational Vehicles In Residential Districts
9-3-9: Accessory Outdoor Activity
9-3-10: Temporary Uses And Structures
9-3-11: Solar Energy Systems (SES)
9-3-12: Wind Energy Systems (WES)
9-3-13: Donation Drop Boxes
9-3-14: Personal Wireless Service Facilities
9-3-15: Small Wireless Communications
9-3-16: Adult Business Uses
9-3-17: Accessory Dwelling Units
9-3-18: Conformance With Stormwater Management Regulations
9-3-19: Utilities And Public Facilities
9-3-20: Watchman And Caretaker Facilities
9-3-21: Package Lockers
9-3-22: Cannabis Dispensaries
9-3-23: Regulations For Cargo Containers
9-3-1: INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Scope. All new structures shall conform to the bulk regulations
established in this Section and for the zoning district in which the structure
is located. Further, no existing structure shall be enlarged, reconstructed,
structurally altered, converted or relocated in such a manner as to conflict or
to further conflict with the regulations of this Section and this Title 9:
Zoning Regulations based on the zoning district in which the structure is
located.
   B.   Concurrence with Comprehensive Plan. The Woodridge Comprehensive Plan,
adopted May 17, 2007, shall provide guidance in the approval of all
developments considered under this Title 9: Zoning Regulations of the Village
of Woodridge, IL Code of Ordinances.
   C.   Maintenance: The maintenance of yards, open space, minimum lot area and
other bulk regulations legally required for a structure shall be a continuing
obligation of the property owner as long as the structure and lot are
existence. Further, no required yards, open space, minimum lot areas or other
bulk regulations allocated for any structure shall, by virtue of a change in
ownership or for any other reason, be used to satisfy yard, open space, minimum
lot area or other bulk requirements for any other structure or lot.
   D.   Nonconformities: Any nonconforming principal or accessory buildings,
structures and uses lawfully existing at the effective date of this Title may
be continued, subject to the provisions of
Chapter 9 : Nonconforming Lots, Buildings, Structures, and Uses of this Title.
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-2: LOTS:
   A.   Number of Buildings on a Lot: No more than one principal building shall
be permitted on a lot except as otherwise provided for a Planned Development as
approved in keeping with Chapter 6: Zoning Administration and Enforcement.
   B.   Division of Lots: No lot shall be divided into two (2) or more lots
unless all resulting lots conform with all the applicable bulk regulations of
the zoning district in which the lot is located.
   C.   Access to Public Streets. Every lot shall abut and have access to an
existing public street, and every principal building or garage constructed
shall be located and designed for vehicles and pedestrians to safely reach a
public street.
   D.   Yards:
      1.   All required yards associated with a structure shall be located on
the same lot as such structure.
      2.   The right-of-way of any public roadway, public alley, or public
accessway that exists by dedication, recorded easement, or prescription, and is
located on a lot shall not be included as part of the required yard setback.
      3.   All yards associated with a structure or use existing on the
effective date hereof shall be maintained to the standards set forth in the
zoning district in which the lot is located. Any lots not meeting those
requirements shall be subject to the requirements of
Chapter 9 : Nonconforming Lots, Buildings, Structures, and Uses. (Ord. 2024-6,
3-7-2024)
9-3-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   Accessory buildings, structures and uses are permitted in accordance
with the following:
      1.   Accessory buildings, structures and uses shall be built, moved or
remodeled, established, altered or enlarged only in keeping with the
requirements of this Section
9-3-3 , this Title and the Village Code.
      2.   Accessory uses are permitted in any zoning district in connection
with any principal use that is permitted within that district.
      3.   Accessory buildings, structures and uses shall comply with all
applicable zoning district regulations in this Title.
   B.   Regulations for Detached Accessory Structures: Detached accessory
structures are permitted in accordance with the following:
      1.   Except as specified in Section
9-3-3 -F or elsewhere in this Title, no accessory building, structure, or use
shall be located within any required yard or forward of the principal building,
structure, or use on the same lot.
      2.   Detached accessory structures may not be located in any easement.
      3.   All detached accessory structures located in a rear yard may
cumulatively cover no more than forty percent (40%) of the required rear yard.
      4.   Detached accessory structures shall comply with the height
limitations of the zoning district in which they are located, provided that:
         a.   They comply with the encroachment regulations in section
9-3-3 .E, and with height and area regulations of the district in which they
are located.
         b.   The accessory buildings or structures do not exceed the height of
the principal building or structure.
         c.   Carwashes and gas station canopies may exceed the height of the
principal structure.
   C.   Garages:
      1.   An attached garage shall comply with all zoning district regulations
applicable to the principal building, structure or use to which it is accessory
and shall have a maximum gross floor area of one thousand (1,000) square feet.
      2.   The maximum cumulative area permitted for all garages, attached or
detached on a single lot shall be a maximum gross floor area of one thousand
(1,000) square feet, subject to Subsection
9-3-3  C.
      3.   If a garage is converted to living space, then the driveway leading
to the former garage must be removed and landscaped, and the curb cut must be
restored.
   D.   Free Libraries:
      1.   Permitted as accessory uses only to residential uses in a
residential zoning district.
      2.   Free Libraries are accessory structures for the purpose of storing
books for exchange within neighborhoods and for the general public and
promoting access to reading materials.
      3.   Such accessory structures shall not be allowed in the public right-
of-way, or in any easements.
      4.   Free Libraries shall not exceed four (4) square feet, nor exceed
five feet six inches in height from ground level to the top of the structure,
and shall not have less than two feet (2') between the ground and the bottom of
the structure.
      5.   Installing such structures shall require a building permit.
      6.   Free Libraries shall be a permitted encroachment in the front yard
and shall be located at least one foot (1') off the property line.
      7.   If a rear or side yard is directly adjacent to a pedestrian path,
the free library may be a permitted encroachment in the yard and shall be
located at least one foot off of the property line.
   E.   Detached Carports:
      1.   Permitted in all zoning districts except R-1, R-2, and R-3.
      2.   Maximum Height: fourteen feet (14').
      3.   Signage may not be affixed to the structure or integrated into the
structure design.
      4.   Roof of carport may be equipped with solar energy systems in
accordance with section
9-3-11  of this chapter.
      5.   Must comply with all applicable lighting requirements as in
compliance with Section
9-10-8 .
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2792.png]
 
   F.   Permitted Encroachments:
      1.   Accessory structures shall be permitted to encroach in designated
yards (F = front yards and exterior side yards adjoining streets; S = interior
side yards; and R = rear yards) of a zoning lot as indicated in
Table 3-1  below.
      2.   Unless otherwise stated, accessory structures must be a minimum of
three feet (3') from rear and interior side lot lines, and may not be permitted
in front and exterior side yards.
      3.   Additional Standards for Permitted Encroachments:
         a.   Arbors, trellises, and pergolas may not exceed twelve feet (12')
in height and twenty feet (20') in width.
         b.   Architectural entrance features may not exceed fifteen feet (15')
in height and shall meet sight triangle requirements.
         c.   Awnings for business and commercial use must be at least eight
feet (8') above the ground over which it is installed.
         d.   Baseball/softball dugout shelters shall be located a minimum of
twenty feet (20') from the rear lot line and outside of the required landscape
yard.
         e.   Compost bins shall be:
            (1)   No larger than one hundred and twenty-five (125) cubic feet.
            (2)   No taller than five feet (5') in height.
            (3)   Designed to hold compostable material in such a way as to not
allow the material to be windblown.
            (4)   Made from one (1) or a combination of the following
materials: snow fence, woven wire, brick or cement block, wood or prefabricated
plastic.
            (5)   Located no closer than twenty feet (20') to a principal
structure on an adjacent property.
         f.   Flagpoles: Up to three (3) flagpoles may be permitted per lot in
the RBC and ORI Zoning Districts. In all other zoning districts one (1)
flagpole is permitted per lot. Flagpoles may exceed the height of the principal
building by up to ten feet (10') or a maximum height of twenty-five feet (25'),
whichever is less. Flagpoles must be setback at least one foot (1') from any
lot line.
         g.   Playhouses shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet.
         h.   Sheds or other storage buildings shall not exceed two hundred
(200) square feet in size.
         i.   Stoops encroaching into required yards shall be uncovered, used
as a required means of egress, and shall not exceed 64 square feet in total
area.
         j.   Swimming pools, hot tubs or spas and their associated structures
and equipment, shall be located a minimum of six feet (6') from any property
line and meet all relevant Village codes and ordinances, including but not
limited to Building Regulations Title 8, Chapter 1, Article M of this Code.
   Table 3-1: Permitted Encroachments
Accessory Building, Structure, Use Front Yard = F Side Yard = S   Rear Yard = R
1.   Accessibility Related Structures must be setback at least one foot (1').F S R
2.   Arbors, trellises, and pergolas subject to Section                      F S R
9-3-3.F.3.a.
3.   Architectural entrance features into subdivisions or planned unit
developments containing at least twenty (20) dwelling units subject to Section  F S R
9-3-3.F.3.b.
4.   Awnings and canopies: for residential and commercial uses may encroach a
maximum of four feet (4') into a yard subject to Section                        F S R
9-3-3.F.3.c.
5.   Balconies encroaching by not more than four feet (4').                  F   R
6.   Baseball/softball dugout shelters subject to Section                        R
9-3-3.F.3.d.
7.   Bay windows, encroaching by not more than three feet (3').              F   R
8.   Bulk storage, not located between the principal structure and the front   S R
lot line.
9.   Carports, attached or detached. (Detached subject to Section                R
9-3-3.E).
10.   Central air conditioning units may encroach by not more than four feet   S R
(4').
11.   Reserved
12.   Chimneys, attached, encroaching by not more than two feet (2').        F S R
13.   Compost bins, subject to Section                                           R
9-3-3.F.3.e
14.   Dog run, may be located in rear or interior side yards, not within five
feet (5') of a rear or side lot line. A dog run shall be limited to not more      S R
than six feet (6') in height.
15.   Driveways, except that driveways shall be a minimum of one foot (1') frFmS R
any side or rear lot line.
16.   Eaves and gutters on principal buildings or attached accessory
structures, encroaching by not more than two feet (2') into a front and rear    F S R
yard; and by not more than eighteen inches (18") into a side yard.
17.   Flagpoles, subject to Section                                          F S R
9-3-3.F.3.f.
18.   Garage, detached (subject to Section                                       R
9-3-3.C)
19.   Gazebos                                                                    R
20.   Generators                                                               S R
22.   Growing of farm and garden crops in the open, except that such crops
shall be no closer than five feet (5') from the front yard lot line or three    F S R
feet (3') from the side and rear yards
22.   Landscaping ponds of any size                                              R
23.   Landscaping ponds that are less than twenty (20) square feet in area and
eighteen inches (18") in depth must be setback at least three feet (3') in all  F   R
yards.
24.   Laundry drying equipment.                                                  R
25.   Free Library, must be setback at least one foot (1') from all yards,
subject to Section                                                              F S R
9-3-3.D)
26.   Open Sided Summer Houses                                                   R
27.   Ornamental lighting                                                    F S R
28.   Outdoor fireplaces                                                         R
29.   Playground equipment                                                       R
30.   Playhouses, subject to Section                                             R
9-3-3.F.3.g.
31.   Rain Barrels (no larger than 65 gallons).                              F S R
32.   Sheds or other storage buildings subject to Section                        R
9-3-3.F.3.h.
33.   Shelters located in the B-1, B-2, B-3 Zoning Districts, not exceeding 168S R
square feet in area.
34.   Sills, break courses, cornices and ornamental features of the principalF S R
building may encroach up to 18 inches into a yard.
35.   Signs, as regulated by                                                 F S
Chapter 11 Sign Code.
36.   Sports courts, private.                                                    R
37.   Stoops, may not encroach more than four feet (4’) into any side yard
subject to Section                                                              F S R
9-3-3.F.3.i.
38.   Swimming pools, hot tubs or spas and their associated structures and
equipment. Private only and subject to Section                                      R
9-3-3.j.
39.   Terraces, patios and decks, provided that in the front yard of any
property such encroaching structures shall not exceed two hundred (200) square  F   R
feet in size.
Note: All encroachments subject to Subsection
9-3-3.F.3 unless otherwise stated.
 
   G.   Accessory Retail Sale of Merchandise in Industrial Districts: (new)
Retail sale of merchandise may be conducted in the RBC, ORI, and M-1 Zoning
Districts when done in keeping with the following:
      1.   Accessory retail sale as defined in this subsection shall be
authorized by the Zoning Officer only upon finding that the requirements of
this subsection are met.
      2.   The total area dedicated to retail sales to the public may not
exceed fifteen percent (15%) of gross floor area.
      3.   Parking shall be designated for retail customers:
         a.   The location of such parking shall be proximate to the door
through which such customers will enter the building, and shall provide safe
ingress and egress to the site and building for customers.
         b.   The number of spaces provided for retail customers shall be based
on the square footage of space dedicated to retail sales, and shall be provided
in keeping with the requirements of
Chapter 7 : Parking and Loading of this Title.
         c.   Parking provide for customers shall not reduce the amount of
parking provided on the property otherwise required for the industrial use,
although for the purpose of calculating required parking, the effective square
footage of industrial square footage may be reduced by the square footage of
building used for retail sales.
      4.   Retail Sales on greater than fifteen percent (15%), but no greater
than twenty-five percent (25%) of gross floor area may be permitted as a
special use. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-4: FENCES:
Fences are a permitted accessory structure in all zoning districts. The
following regulations shall govern the type, location and construction of all
fences:
   A.   Fences In Residential Districts:
      1.   In residential districts, fences may be installed subject to the
following:
         a.   Chain link fences are allowed, but may not include slats.
         b.   Open fences constructed to a maximum height of three feet (3’)
may be located anywhere on a lot.
         c.   Open fences no taller than four and one-half feet (4 1/2’) may be
located anywhere on a lot, except within the applicable district front yard
setback.
         d.   Closed or open fences greater than four and one-half feet (4 1/
2’) in height and not taller than six feet (6’) in height may be located
anywhere on a lot except as follows:
            (1)   Within the required front yard setback for the applicable
zoning district.
            (2)   On corner lots where the exterior side yard is directly
adjacent to the front yard of the adjoining lot, within the exterior side yard
of the applicable zoning district.
            (3)   On corner lots where the rear lot line abuts the rear lot
line of the adjoining lot, a fence in the exterior side yard may extend to the
exterior side lot line from the back corner of the house to the rear of the
lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3177.png]
 
   B.   Fences in Nonresidential Districts: In B-1, B-2, B-3, RBC, ORI, and M-
1 zoning districts, fences shall be installed subject to requirements for
screening of outdoor storage per the following:
      1.   Chain link fences are allowed but may not include slats.
      2.   A closed fence up to a maximum height of six feet (6') shall be
installed along any lot line that adjoins a residential district, except within
the required front yard or exterior side yard.
      3.   Fencing installed to screen refuse disposal areas shall meet
requirements as specified in
Chapter 8 : Landscaping and Screening.
      4.   A closed fence shall be installed to enclose all outdoor storage of
material, vehicles and other equipment storage areas, where such storage is
permitted. The height of the fence shall be equal to the height of the material
or equipment stored, but in no event shall such fence exceed ten feet (10').
      5.   Notwithstanding any provision in subsection B.3 above to the
contrary:
         a.   No fence shall be erected in a required front yard or exterior
side yard.
      6.   A fence may be erected in the interior side yard or rear yard to a
maximum height of six feet (6').
   C.   Fences in parks, recreational areas and recreational establishments:
      1.   Closed or open fences not exceeding ten feet (10') in height may be
located in conjunction with sports fields or courts, including, but not limited
to, tennis courts and baseball fields.
      2.   Open fence backstops not exceeding thirty feet (30') in height may
be located in conjunction with baseball and softball fields, for the purpose of
protecting spectators and adjacent properties from airborne balls. Such fences
and backstops may be located anywhere on a lot except:
         a.   Within twenty-five feet (25') of any front or exterior side lot
line.
         b.   Within ten feet (10') of any interior side or rear lot line.
   D.   Construction and Maintenance of all Fences:
      1.   A building permit is required for the installation of any fence.
      2.   The finished side of all fences shall face away from the interior of
the property so fenced.
      3.   Fence construction shall not include barbed wire or other hazardous
devices or materials.
      4.   Fences shall not be constructed with an electrical charge or other
hazardous device.
      5.   No fence may be located in the Sight Triangle as regulated in this
Chapter.
      6.   The height of a fence shall be measured from the existing grade at
the location where the fence is installed.
      7.   No fence may be installed or maintained on any portion of a lot
where such fence would interfere with drainage of contiguous properties.
      8.   The owner of every fence constructed within the Village shall cause
said fence to be maintained in a safe, presentable, neat, attractive and sound
structural condition at all times, including the replacement of defective
parts, repainting, cleaning and other acts required for the maintenance of said
fence.
   E.   Fences Around Swimming Pools: Residential swimming pools shall be
enclosed by fences in accordance with Title 8: Building Regulations,
chapter 1 , article M of this code.
   F.   Screening Along Tollway and Interstate Highways: A fence with a maximum
height of fourteen feet (14') shall be permitted along property lines directly
abutting a tollway or interstate highway right of way.
   G.   On residential property adjacent to Illinois state routes, other than
interstates, closed fences may be constructed to a maximum height of eight feet
(8’). Such fences shall be located only along the lot line adjacent to the
Illinois State Highway. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-5: SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE:
In all zoning districts, buildings, structures or plant materials may not be
erected, altered, planted or maintained between three feet (3') and eight feet
(8') in height above grade within a sight distance triangle. The sight distance
triangle is found in either of the two situations described in this subsection.
   A.   A Sight Distance Triangle is that portion of a lot within the
triangular area formed by two (2) legs measuring twenty-five feet (25') in
length from the point of intersection of two (2) street right of way lines
forming a corner lot.
   B.   A Sight Distance Triangle is that portion of a lot within the
triangular area formed by two (2) legs measuring ten feet (10') in length from
the point of intersection of one (1) street right of way line and the edge of
one (1) driveway.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2831.png]
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-6: PRIVATE POWER GENERATORS:
   A.   Requirements for All Private Power Generators.
      1.   Landscaping shall be installed to screen private generators as
specified in Chapter 8: Landscaping and Screening.
      2.   Private generators shall be a minimum of three feet (3’) from any
property line, in accordance with subsection
9-3-3 .E.
      3.   Private generators shall not be located in easements, without the
express written consent of all parties to whom the easement is granted.
      4.   Private generators may not be located in detention facilities or
over spillways.
   B.   In residential zoning districts, private generators may be located in
required interior side and rear yards, and shall be in keeping with the
following:
      1.   The height of generators accessory to residential uses shall not
exceed six feet (6').
      2.   Shall not be located in the area between the principal structure and
the front or exterior side lot line(s).
      3.   Generators accessory to multi-family residential uses shall not be
placed in a required yard that abuts a single-family residential use.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3181.png]
 
   C.   In non-residential zoning districts, private generators may be located
in required interior side and rear yards, and shall be in keeping with the
following:
      1.   Shall not be placed in a required yard that abuts a residential use.
      2.   The height of generators accessory to nonresidential uses and their
required screening (except for landscape screening) shall not exceed the height
of the principal structure.
      3.   Generators exceeding six feet (6') in height may not encroach into
the required yards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3179.png]
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-7: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Intent: Home occupations are permitted in any dwelling unit so long as
they are subordinate and incidental to the principal use of the dwelling unit
as a residence. Such activities are to be compatible with the residential use
of the area in which they are located.
   B.   Location: A home occupation may be allowed in a dwelling in any zoning
district in which dwellings are allowed or the dwelling is legally
nonconforming.
   C.   Standards For Home Occupations: In addition to all standards applicable
to the district in which it is located, any home occupation shall comply with
the following:
      1.   Not more than one person other than members of the immediate family
residing at such dwelling unit shall be employed on the premises.
      2.   There shall be no manufacturing or processing of any kind.
      3.   No sign shall advertise the presence or conduct of the occupation.
      4.   There shall be no alteration of the principal structure that changes
the use, appearance or character thereof as a dwelling unit.
      5.   Not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of
one story of any dwelling unit shall be principally devoted to the home
occupation.
      6.   No outdoor storage shall be permitted.
      7.   The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling
unit;
      8.   The home occupation shall not generate noise, vibration, glare,
fumes, odors, or electrical interference beyond that which normally occurs in
the zoning district in which it is located.
      9.   No home occupation may be operated so as to cause a nuisance.
      10.   An accessory structure may be used for a home occupation only for
passive incidental storage related to the business.
      11.   The site of the home occupation may not serve for staging of
parking for which employees park personal vehicles on the site and work
elsewhere.
      12.   The home occupation shall not have a separate entrance from outside
the building.
      13.   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood
      14.   Snow plows may not be stored outside of residential uses. (Ord.
2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-8: REGULATIONS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Recreational vehicles parked or stored in R-1, R-2, or R-3 Zoning
Districts shall meet the requirements of this Section
9-3-8 : Regulations for Recreational Vehicles in Residential Districts.
   B.   Type of Vehicles: For the purpose of this subsection, recreational
vehicles shall include a:
      1.   Boat;
      2.   Trailer containing up to two (2) off road vehicles or personal
watercraft;
      3.   Trailer containing no other vehicles; or
      4.   Off road vehicle.
   C.   Number of Recreational Vehicles: No more than one (1) recreational
vehicle may be parked on a property.
   D.   Location of Recreational Vehicles:
      1.   Recreational vehicles may be parked or stored only in an interior
side or rear yard.
      2.   No recreational vehicle may be parked or stored:
         a.   In any required front or exterior side yard;
         b.   Between the principal structure and the front lot line;
         c.   Between the principal structure and any exterior side lot line;
or
         d.   Closer to the front lot line than the principal structure (as
measured on a line perpendicular to the front lot line from a point on the
principal structure that is the shortest distance from the front lot line).
   E.   Size of Vehicles: No recreational may be parked or stored if such
vehicle has a height from the underside of the tire to the top of the vehicle,
inclusive of load, exceeding nine feet (9') or a length exceeding twenty feet
(20').
   F.   Notwithstanding the requirements of this Section
9-3-8 : Regulations for Recreational Vehicles in Residential Districts, the
Zoning Officer may grant a permit allowing the temporary parking or storage of
one recreational vehicle exceeding the size limitations set forth in Section
9-3-8 -E on the driveway of a lot used for single- family purposes. Such permit
may allow parking for a period not to exceed ten (10) days in any consecutive
thirty (30) day period.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3183.png]
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-9: ACCESSORY OUTDOOR ACTIVITY:
To promote safe and harmonious activities in the Village, and to mitigate
adverse impacts such as noise, traffic, and unsafe conditions for those
operating, visiting or traveling in the Village, the majority of business and
governmental activities are expected to occur inside of buildings. However,
some business or governmental activities may regularly or periodically occur
outside of a structure. Such activities are regulated by various portions of
the Village code, including and not limited to this Section
9-3-10 : Accessory Outdoor Activities.
   A.   Businesses Activities to be Enclosed in B-1, B-2, B-3, ORI: Unless
otherwise specified in this Section
9-3-10 : Outdoor Business Activity or as permitted by any ordinance granting or
amending an approval granted per this Title, all business establishments in B-
1, B-2, B-3, ORI shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building.
   B.   Outdoor Accessory Display and Sales in B-1, B-2, B-3, ORI: Zoning
Districts - Ongoing:
      1.   The outdoor display shall be restricted to private property.
      2.   Merchandise may not be displayed in any parking stalls, loading
berths, drive aisles, landscape areas, required building setbacks, etc.
      3.   All merchandise must be displayed on an impervious surface.
      4.   Merchandise displayed on pedestrian walkways requires that a minimum
of five feet (5’) in width be maintained free and clear to provide safe
pedestrian travel.
      5.   Outdoor displays or associated equipment shall not exceed eight feet
(8') in height.
      6.   The square footage of the area in which outdoor display occurs may
not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total gross square footage of the principal
structure up to a maximum of five hundred (500) square feet, whichever is less.
      7.   For gas stations: In addition to the standards outlined in this
section, outdoor display and sales may only occur immediately adjacent to the
principal structure and underneath the fuel pump canopy, notwithstanding state
accessibility requirements.
   C.   Outdoor Accessory Display and Sales in B-1, B-2, B-3, ORI - Seasonal:
Seasonal retail sales shall be permitted for retail uses greater than fifty
thousand (50,000) square feet in gross floor area. Outdoor storage, display,
and sales of seasonal products shall be permitted as follows:
      1. The outdoor storage, display and sales shall be limited to seasonal
products including but not limited to plants, landscape materials, and bags of
soil, mulch, fertilizer, and stone.
      2.   The outdoor storage, display, and sales shall only be permitted from
April 1 through August 31.
      3.   The outdoor storage, display, and sales shall be permitted on the
sidewalk directly in front of the store provided that a minimum five foot (5')
sidewalk width shall remain unobstructed for pedestrian passing, and further
provided that the view of automobile traffic is not impaired.
      4.   A temporary tent or fenced off sales area may be permitted on paved
parking areas in order to store, display, and sell such materials, provided the
site continues to meet minimum parking requirements, drive aisle width is
maintained, and safe traffic circulation is not impaired.
      5.   Application to conduct outdoor storage, display, and sales shall be
made to the Zoning Officer and shall indicate the location and duration of the
display, storage and sales. The Zoning Officer may grant a permit for seasonal
outdoor display and sales provided the requirements of this Section
9-3-10 -C are met.
   D.   Outdoor Accessory Display and Sales in B-1, B-2, B-3, ORI- Periodic:
Periodic retail sales shall be permitted for any business provided that outdoor
storage, display, and sales of products are conducted as follows:
      1.   Special outdoor sales or promotions may be conducted on specific
dates and at specific locations when approved by the Zoning Officer upon their
finding such request meets the requirements of this section
9-3-10  D.
      2.   A special outdoor sales or promotions provided for by this
subsection may be granted for any business establishment no more than three (3)
times during any twelve (12) consecutive month period.
      3.   The special outdoor sales or promotions provided for by this
subsection may be granted with respect to any business establishment for a
period not exceeding four (4) consecutive days.
      4.   The outdoor display shall be restricted to private property.
      5.   Merchandise may not be displayed in any parking stalls, loading
berths, drive aisles, landscape areas, required building setbacks, etc.
      6.   All merchandise must be displayed on an impervious surface.
      7.   Merchandise display area must provide that a minimum of five feet
(5') in width be maintained free and clear to provide safe pedestrian travel.
      8.   Outdoor displays and any appurtenances shall not exceed eight feet
(8') in height.
   E.   Accessory Outdoor Storage of Goods, Supplies, and Equipment
      1.   Outdoor storage of any materials or equipment shall only be allowed
in RBC and M-1 zoning districts.
      2.   Screening of outdoor storage shall be provided in keeping with the
requirements of section
9-3-4 -B.
      3.   Outdoor Storage Areas may be permitted in keeping with the
following:
         a.   Outdoor storage areas (except those accessories to motor vehicle
sales establishments, where the for sale vehicles are stored outdoors) and
areas used for parking of trucks and trailers (exclusive of loading spaces) for
more than seventy-two (72) hours shall be screened to a minimum of six feet
(6') in height along the length of the abutting lot line.
         b.   Stored materials cannot exceed the height of the screen.
         c.   A screen height shall not exceed ten feet (10').
         d.   Such screening shall consist of a continuous landscaped berm,
solid, commercial grade wood fence, wall or other comparable material.
         e.   All fencing shall be constructed of commercial grade wood or
comparable materials. The finished side of the fence or wall shall be oriented
toward the abutting property. If a fence or wall is used as a screen, a five
foot (5') wide planting bed with landscaping material at least three feet (3')
high shall be located adjacent to the finished side of the fence or wall.
         f.   In lieu of the solid fence or wall, a screen planting area a
minimum of twenty feet (20') in width, containing a minimum of two (2) rows of
evergreen trees, may be installed. The evergreen trees shall be at least eight
feet (8') tall when planted. The rows shall be staggered, with a maximum of
eight feet (8') between rows, and shall be centered within the screen planting
area. The evergreen trees shall be spaced a maximum of ten feet (10') apart on
center.
            (1)   The Zoning Officer may require the trees to be spaced closer
to ensure that narrower growing varieties will provide an effective screen.
            (2)   Should the buffer area contain a continuous berm at least
three feet
            (3') in height, with a side slope not exceeding a ratio of three to
one (3:1), the minimum height of the required evergreen trees shall be six feet
(6') when planted.
      (3)   The final design of the screen planting area and the landscaping
within it shall be subject to the approval of the Zoning Officer upon a
determination that the requirements of this Section
9-3-10  E. are met, create a safe environment for pedestrians and drivers, and
provide a plant mix that will thrive in the locations where installed.
   F.   Accessory Outdoor Dining: Outdoor Dining is permitted only in the B-1,
B-2, B-3 and RBC zoning districts and may be permitted by the Zoning Officer
upon finding that the standards of this subsection are met. Failure to comply
with the requirements of this subsection will result in revocation of
authorization allowing outdoor dining. All Outdoor Dining shall be subject to
the following conditions:
      1.   Outdoor Dining is permitted on the same property as an accessory to
the operation of a lawfully permitted restaurant.
      2.   Outdoor Dining may not occur on public property.
      3.   The sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be restricted
by the liquor license governing the restaurant, and as otherwise regulated by
Title 3, Chapter 3 of the Village Code.
      4.   Additional parking shall not be required for Outdoor Dining.
      5.   Outdoor Dining shall be permitted only during normal business hours
of the restaurant to which the outdoor dining is accessory, but only between
the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      6.   Outdoor Dining permits issued by the Village shall be subject to an
annual review and may be revoked at any time on thirty (30) days notice.
      7.   All Outdoor Dining shall comply with State of Illinois and County
Health Code regulations.
      8.   If included in a special use approval for a microbrewery or
microdistillery, outdoor dining can be permitted in the ORI District.
   G.   Outside Storage for Governmental Entities:
      1.   A special use shall be required for outside storage by any
governmental agency and shall, in addition to any requirements related to a
special use approval by the Village of Woodridge, conform to the following:
         a.   Storage shall be accessory to a permitted or special use in any
residential district.
         b.   Storage shall be completely enclosed by sightproof fencing. The
height of such fencing shall be equal to the height of the material or
equipment stored, but in no event shall such fence exceed ten feet (10'). No
such fence shall be erected in a required front yard or side yard adjoining a
street. In addition, no such fence shall be erected within ten feet (10') of
any lot line of an adjoining residentially zoned property.
      2.   Accessory outside storage by the Village of Woodridge that is
accessory to a permitted use in a residential zoning district shall be
permitted in keeping with the following:
         a.   Such storage supports the public health, safety and welfare, as
determined by the Zoning Officer.
         b.   Sightproof fencing that does not exceed six feet (6') in height
shall be provided between said temporary outside storage and adjacent
residential uses.
         c.   Temporary outside storage shall not be located in a required
front yard or side yard adjoining a street and shall not be located within ten
feet (10') of any lot line of an adjoining residentially zoned property.
         d.   Location of the outdoor storage shall be approved per the Site
Plan Review process defined in this Title.
         e.   Said temporary outside storage shall be allowed for a maximum of
six (6) months every calendar year.
         f.   Said temporary outside storage shall have a maximum height of
twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-10: TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES:
The following temporary structures and uses of land shall be allowed subject to
the specific regulations and time constraints defined in this Section
9-3-11 : Temporary Uses and Structures, as well as any other applicable
regulations of the zoning district in which they are located and relevant
requirements of the Village Code.
   A.   Temporary Outdoor Business Activity: Conditions applicable to all
temporary outdoor business activities are as follows:
      1.   A permit issued by the Zoning Officer is required for each
structure, use, or event.
      2.   All material or product stored and displayed must be maintained in a
safe, orderly, and tidy manner.
   B.   Temporary Construction Offices, Real Estate Rental or Sales Offices: A
permit for Temporary Construction Offices, Real Estate Rental or Sales Offices
shall be valid only for the time a permit is active for the construction of a
building(s) to which it is related and it meets the requirements of this
Subsection B. Upon issuance of an occupancy permit for any model home pursuant
to this title, no temporary real estate rental or sales offices shall be
permitted within the development. The temporary structure shall:
      1.   Be located on the same lot, or on land under the same ownership of
the principal building being constructed;
      2.   Be removed prior to the issuance of a final occupancy permit for the
final building being constructed in the development;
      3.   Have the name and current telephone number of the owner permanently
affixed to its exterior;
      4.   Be located no nearer than twenty-five feet (25') to any front or
exterior side lot line;
      5.   Not include any outside storage on the grounds of such structure;
      6.   Have any temporary driveways and parking area that serve the
temporary structure consist of a bituminous asphalt surface that is installed
prior to issuance of an occupancy permit for a temporary structure;
      7.   Have temporary directional signs be installed as required by the
Zoning Officer, to control the flow of on site and off site traffic related to
the subject property; and
      8.   Provide that construction barricades be installed to protect
pedestrians from any on site construction activity. The location, number, and
type of construction barricades to be provided shall be as required by the
Zoning Officer.
   C.   Model Homes: Temporary model homes used to offer for sale or rental
dwelling units shall not be established without first obtaining a permit from
the Zoning Officer. The following regulations shall govern the establishment
and operation of a model home:
      1.   No such model shall be occupied for residential living purposes
during the term of the model home permit.
      2.   Model home permits may be issued for a period of three (3) years,
and may be extended thereafter by the Zoning Officer for a maximum of up to
three (3) additional one year time periods.
      3.   Notwithstanding the above, the model home permit shall expire once a
building permit is issued for the construction of a new home on the last vacant
lot owned by the model home permit applicant within the subdivision or
development in which the model home is located or upon the sale/rental of the
model home by the builder/developer, whichever occurs first.
      4.   Temporary off street parking facilities shall be provided to
eliminate traffic obstructions on the public right of way. In no event shall
such off street parking facility contain less than two (2) spaces per model
home. Any such parking facility shall be constructed of bituminous asphalt
surface.
      5.   Exterior lighting may be used to illuminate the model home. Sources
of light shall be directed and/or shielded so as not to be visible from any lot
line and shall not cause illumination in excess of two-tenths (0.2) foot-candle
on adjacent lots. Any such lights may only be illuminated during the hours from
dusk to ten o'clock (10:00) PM.
      6.   No construction traffic or storage of construction materials shall
be permitted at the model home site.
      7.   Signs for model homes shall conform with the provisions of this
title.
      8.   Storage of building and construction materials shall be prohibited
in model homes.
      9.   Model homes shall only be allowed in locations where the Zoning
Officer makes a finding that the additional pedestrian activity and vehicle
traffic generated by such uses can be conducted safely and will not adversely
impact adjacent residential properties.
   D.   Outdoor Christmas Tree Sales shall conform to the following:
      1.   Be located on a lot of not less than one (1) acre.
      2.   Operate for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
      3.   Need not comply with the yard requirements of this Chapter, provided
that no trees shall be displayed within:
         a.   Ten feet (10') of any driveway or street right-of-way; or
         b.   Thirty feet (30') of the intersection of the rights-of-way of any
two (2) streets.
   E.   Portable storage containers in business zoning districts shall conform
to the following:
      1.   Only one portable storage container shall be permitted on a lot at
any one time and not for longer than forty-five (45) days.
      2.   Extensions of time may be granted by the Zoning Officer in instances
where the portable storage container is used in connection with construction
occurring on a lot, but in no event shall the total elapsed time exceed one
hundred twenty (120) days.
   F.   Portable storage containers in residential zoning districts shall
conform to the following: Roll-off containers designed for residential use,
such as dumpsters and portable self-storage containers, that are accessory to a
permitted or special use in any residential district shall be allowed only in
accordance with the following regulations:
      1.   They shall be located entirely on the lot on an impervious surface.
      2.   They shall be located a minimum of three feet (3’) from any lot
line.
      3.   Portable self-storage containers shall be allowed for a period of up
to fourteen (14) consecutive days once per calendar year. Upon receipt of
written permission from the Zoning Officer, roll-off containers may be allowed
for a maximum of up to three (3) additional fourteen (14) day time periods per
calendar year.
      4.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this section to the contrary,
the time period for roll-off containers accessory to the construction of a new
structure or renovation of an existing structure may extend through the
duration of said construction or renovation only if a valid building permit has
been issued for said construction or renovation. Said roll-off containers shall
be removed prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit.
      5.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this section to the contrary,
roll-off containers used for general refuse disposal and recyclables for any
multiple-family residential use that are permanently screened in accordance
with Section
9-8-8  this title are exempt from the time restrictions specified in subsection
C of this section.
      6.   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to allow cargo
containers in residential districts.(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-11: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (SES):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section 9-3-12 is to encourage safe and
efficient use of solar energy, reduce the use and impact of fossil fuels and to
ensure that Solar Energy Systems (SES) are compatible in character and
appearance with the principal structure and surrounding area in which they are
located.
   B.   General Provision:
      1.   Building Permit Requirement: A building permit shall be obtained
prior to the construction of any solar energy system. Applications for a permit
to construct a solar energy system shall include, in addition to any
requirements contained in Title 8: Building Regulations, of the Village Code,
documentation as required by the Zoning Officer to ensure safe and effective
installation of the SES.
      2.   SES are permitted as an accessory structure mounted to a principal
or other accessory structure.
      3.   SES construction, design, installation, operation and maintenance
shall be subject to the development standards specified in this Section
9-3-12  and other Village Code requirements.
      4.   Energy produced by SES shall be used on site, except that surplus
energy may be delivered to the power grid.
      5.   Solar panels may only be located on the roof of a structure.
      6.   Solar shingles are permitted and shall be integral to the roof of
the structure on which they are installed.
      7.   Solar collection devices may not extend beyond the roof edge or the
exterior perimeter of a structure.
      8.   Solar collection devices may not be located on the vertical portion
of a mansard roof.
      9.   SES shall be subject to the yard, height and any other bulk
requirements of the zoning district in which it is located:
         a.   Except that SES may be installed on legally nonconforming
structures; and
         b.   SES may encroach up to two feet (2') beyond the allowed maximum
height of a structure.
      10.   Ground Mounted Solar Energy Systems:
         a.   Ground Mounted SES are allowed in nonresidential zoning districts
only.
         b.   Number Per Lot: Only one ground mounted solar energy system shall
be permitted on any lot.
         c.   Location: Ground mounted solar energy systems shall not be
located within the required front, side or exterior side yard of any lot or in
any public utility easement, and all parts of a ground mounted solar energy
system shall be set back at least five feet (5') from any nonresidential
property line or fifty feet (50’) from any residential property line.
         d.   Height: Ground mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed a
total height of six feet (6') as measured from the average grade at the base of
the system to the highest edge of the system.
         e.   Surface Area: Ground mounted solar energy systems shall not
exceed a total surface area of one thousand (1,000) square feet.
         f.   Screening: Ground mounted solar energy systems shall be screened
in a manner approved by the Zoning Officer so as to not be visible from any
adjacent road right of way.
   C.   Appearance and Materials: Solar energy systems shall be neutral in
color and generally matching the roof color of the principal structure. All
such devices shall have the following characteristics:
      1.   Not be plastic or other non-UV stable material.
      2.   Include frames, where applicable, of anodized aluminum or painted
steel.
      3.   Where devices are encased with glass, the glass shall be non-
reflective tempered glass.
      4.   Solar panels must be placed so that concentrated solar radiation or
glare is not directed onto any nearby properties or roadways.
   D.   Maintenance and Removal of Solar Energy Systems:
      1.   Solar energy systems must be maintained in good repair and operable
condition at all times, including compliance with all standards in applicable
building and technical codes to ensure structural and technical integrity of
such facilities, except for maintenance and repair outages. If a system becomes
inoperable or damaged, operations must cease and be promptly remedied.
      2.   If the Zoning Officer determines that a solar energy system fails to
comply with the applicable provisions of this code, they shall provide written
notification to the property owner. The property owner shall have a period of
ninety (90) days from the date of notification to either restore the solar
energy system to operation or remove the system.
      3.   After the solar energy system is removed, the property owner shall
promptly restore their property to a condition consistent with the property's
condition prior to the installation of the system. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-12: WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (WES):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to encourage safe and efficient
use of wind energy systems (WES), reduce the use and impact of fossil fuels,
and ensure WES are compatible in character and appearance with the principal
structure and surrounding area in which they are located.
   B.   General Provisions: Wind energy systems are permitted as an accessory
structure to a principal Permitted or Special Use subject to the standards of
this Section
9-3-12 : Wind Energy Systems and the Village Code.
      1.   No more than one WES is permitted per property used for residential
use.
      2.   No more than one WES is permitted per Commercial or Industrially
zoned properties, unless approved as a Special Use.
      3.   WES may be permitted on a Commercial or Industrially zoned property
adjacent to a residential zoning lot only upon approval by as a Special Use.
      4.   SES construction, design, installation, operation and maintenance
shall be subject to the development standards specified in this Section
9-3-12  and other Village Code requirements.
      5.   Energy produced by WES shall be used on site, except that surplus
energy may be delivered to the power grid.
      6.   In no event shall the WES adversely impact adjacent properties due
to excessive glare or other nuisance.
      7.   In no event shall the noise level produced by a WES continuously
exceed sixty-five (65) decibels as measured at the property line.
      8.   No WES shall cause electromagnetic degradation in performance of
other electromagnetic radiators, receptors, or generators of quality and proper
design.
      9.   WES shall not be artificially lighted.
      10.   All wind turbines shall have an automatic braking, governing or
feathering system to prevent uncontrolled rotation, over speeding and excessive
pressure on the tower structure, rotor blades and turbine components.
      11.   Abandonment: If a WES is inoperable or abandoned for a period of
six (6) consecutive months, the Village may require that the WES must either be
repaired or removed within an established cure period.
   C.   Rooftop mounted WES shall be in keeping with the following
requirements:
      1.   More than one rooftop mounted WES shall be allowed only in
nonresidential zoning districts after having received approval by as a Special
Use.
      2.   Rooftop mounted WES shall be set back at least twenty feet (20')
from front or exterior setback lines, and at least ten feet (10') from side
setback lines. Setbacks shall be measured to the widest point of blade rotation
or to the nearest part of the WES structure, whichever is greater.
      3.   Rooftop mounted WES shall be limited to a height of no more than
fifteen feet (15') above the roof peak or top of a parapet wall, whichever is
greater. Total height shall be measured from the highest point of blade
rotation or the highest point of the WES structure, whichever is greater.
   D.   Ground mounted WES:
      1.   More than one ground mounted WES shall be allowed only in
nonresidential zoning districts after having received approval by as a Special
Use.
      2.   Ground mounted WES shall be permitted only in a rear or side yard.
      3.   The WES tower or any associated structure shall comply with the
minimum setback requirements of the zoning district in which the WES is located
or be set back a distance equal to 1.1 times the total height of the structure
from any property line, whichever distance is greater. Total structure height
shall be measured from the ground to the highest point of blade rotation or the
highest point of the WES structure, whichever is greater.
      4.   A WES tower shall be set back a minimum of twenty feet (20') from
any principal structure on the property.
      5.   The maximum permissible height of a WES tower shall not exceed
seventy feet (70’).
      6.   Rotor blades or airfoils must maintain at least twelve feet (12') of
clearance between their lowest point of rotation and the ground.
      7.   All climbing apparatus affixed to a WES tower shall terminate twelve
feet (12') short of ground level.
      8.   All WES facilities shall be surrounded by a six foot (6') high
safety fence.
      9.   All WES towers shall be constructed with an approved concrete
foundation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2839.png]
 
Example of WES in commercial district designed to fit into the character of the
district.
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-13: DONATION DROP BOXES:
   A.   Purpose. The Village has experienced a proliferation of collection
containers and their placement in required parking spaces, required landscaped
areas, and residential zoning districts, often without the property owner's
permission. The proliferation of these containers has contributed to visual
clutter, blight due to graffiti and poor maintenance, and the accumulation of
debris and excess items outside of the collection containers. They can also
interfere with the proper management of the Village’s waste stream. The purpose
of these regulations is to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the
public, and protect the property rights of the owners of the parcels on which
the collection containers are located, by providing minimum blight-related
performance standards for the operation of collection containers, including
establishing criteria to ensure that:
      1.   Material is not allowed to accumulate outside of the collection
containers;
      2.   The collection containers remain free of graffiti and blight;
      3.   The collection containers are maintained in sanitary conditions;
      4.   The collection containers are not placed without the approval of
property owners; and
      5.   That contact information is readily available so that the operators
can be contacted if there are any blight-related questions or concerns.
   This Section
9-3-13  regulates the size, number, placement, installation and maintenance of
collection containers, as is necessary to accomplish the foregoing purposes.
   B.   Permit Required; exceptions.
      1.   It is unlawful to place, operate, maintain or allow a collection
container on any real property unless the property owner and operator of the
collection container first obtains a permit from the Village.
      2.   An application for a collection container will be processed as
ministerial action in accordance with this Section. The Zoning Officer will be
the decision maker, subject to this Title’s appeal process.
   C.   Application.
      1.   The permit application will be made on a form provided by the Zoning
Officer, and include:
         a.   The signatures of the property owner and the operator of the
collection container, acknowledging that they will be equally responsible for
compliance with all applicable laws and conditions related to the collection
containers for which they are seeking approval;
         b.   A non-refundable application fee as determined by the Village;
         c.   The name, address, email, website (if available) and telephone
number of the operator of the collection container and property owner on which
the collection container is to be located, including twenty-four (24)-hour
contact information;
         d.   A vicinity map showing:
            (1)   The proposed location of the collection container;
            (2)   The distance between the proposed location and all existing
collection containers within five hundred feet (500') of the proposed location,
as measured from lot line to lot line; and
            (3)   The distance between the proposed location and all
residentially-zoned property within five hundred feet (500') of the proposed
location, as measured from lot line to lot line.
         e.   Photographs of the location and adjacent properties;
         f.   A site plan containing;
            (1)   Location and dimensions of all parcel boundaries;
            (2)   Location of all buildings;
            (3)   Proposed collection container location;
            (4)   Distance between the proposed collection container and parcel
lines and buildings; and
            (5)   Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
driveways, garages, carports, parking spaces, maneuvering aisles, pavement and
striping/marking;
         g.   Elevations showing the appearance, materials, and dimensions of
the collection container, including the information required in this Section to
be placed on the collection container and notice sign;
         h.   A description and/or diagram of the proposed locking mechanism of
the collection container;
         i.   A maintenance plan (including graffiti removal, pick-up schedule,
and litter and trash removal on and around the collection container); and
         j.   Any other information regarding time, place, and manner of the
collection container's operation, placement, and maintenance that is reasonably
necessary to evaluate the proposal's consistency with the requirements of this
Section.
      2.   Permit expiration and renewal. A permit issued under this Section
will expire and become null and void annually on the anniversary of its date of
issuance, unless renewed prior to its expiration. An application for renewal
must be submitted prior to the expiration of the permit on a form provided by
the Zoning Officer, and include:
         a.   The signatures of the property owner and the operator of the
collection container, acknowledging that they will be equally responsible for
compliance with all applicable laws and conditions related to the collection
containers for which they are seeking approval;
         b.   A non-refundable application fee as determined by the Village;
         c.   Photographs of the location and adjacent properties taken within
ten days of the submittal of the renewal application;
         d.   A detailed description of any changes to the information
submitted on the previous application; and
         e.   Any other information regarding time, place, and manner of the
collection container's operation, placement, and maintenance that is reasonably
necessary to evaluate the proposal's consistency with the requirements of this
Section.
   D.   Decision on application.
      1.   The Zoning Officer will approve or deny an application within sixty
(60) days of the receipt of a completed application. If the Zoning Officer
fails to take action on the application within the required sixty (60) days,
the application shall be deemed approved.
      2.   The Zoning Officer will approve the application if all of the
following are true; otherwise the Zoning Officer may deny the application:
         a.   The applicant has submitted a complete, fully executed and
accurate application accompanied by the applicable fee;
         b.   The property on which the collection container is to be located
has been free of graffiti, as defined by the Woodridge Village Code, for at
least six months prior to the submission of the application, as evidenced by
Village records for the property;
         c.   The property on which the collection container is to be located
has been free of any conditions constituting a nuisance, as defined by the
Woodridge Village Code, for at least six (6) months prior to submission of the
application, as evidenced by Village records for the property;
         d.   The applicant is neither currently in violation of, nor has not
been found in violation of this Section within one year prior to submission of
the application; and
         e. The application will be in compliance with all of the applicable
provisions of this Section.
            (1)   The Zoning Officer will mail written notice to the applicant
of the Zoning Officer's decision by First Class United States mail, addressed
to the applicant at the address provided on the application. If the application
is denied, or approved subject to conditions, the notice will set forth the
reasons for the denial or conditions, as well as the facts supporting the
Zoning Officer’s reasons.
            (2)   The decision of the Zoning Officer will be final, subject to
this Title’s appeal provisions.
   E.   Standards.
      1.   Location.
         a.   No collection container may be located within five hundred feet
(500') from any other collection container, as measured from lot line to lot
line.
         b.   No collection container may be located in a residential zoning
district.
         c.   No collection container may be located within five hundred feet
(500') of a parcel in a residential zoning district, as measured from lot line
to lot line.
         d.   No collection container will be located on or within:
            (1)   The public right-of-way, including sidewalks;
            (2)   Area designated for landscaping;
         e.   No collection container will be located in or block or impede
access to any:
            (1)   Required parking or driveway areas;
            (2)   Pedestrian routes;
            (3)   Emergency vehicle routes;
            (4)   Building ingress and egress;
            (5)   Required disabled access routes;
            (6)   Required or recorded easements;
            (7)   Trash enclosure areas or access to trash bins or trash
enclosures; or
            (8)   Any place that would impede the functioning of exhaust,
ventilation, or fire extinguishing systems.
         f.   No more than one collection container will be located on any
individual zoning lot.
         g.   No collection container will be located within the sight triangle
of any intersection, or within any required yard or setback.
      2.   Physical attributes.
         a.   All collection containers must:
         b.   Be fabricated of durable and waterproof materials;
         c.   Be placed on a level impervious surface;
         d.   Have a tamper-resistant locking mechanism for all collection
openings;
         e.   Not be electrically or hydraulically powered or otherwise
mechanized; and
         f.   Not be considered a fixture of the site or an improvement to real
property.
         g.   Collection containers may not exceed six and one-half-feet in
height, five feet (5') in width and five feet (5') in depth.
         h.   Signage on collection containers will not exceed five-inch letter
height. Collection containers must have the following information conspicuously
displayed in at least two inch (2") type visible from the front of the
collection container:
            (1)   The name, address, twenty-four (24)-hour telephone number,
and, if available, the Internet Web address, and email address of the
permittee, the operator of the collection container, and the owner of the real
property;
            (2)   The type of material that may be deposited; and
            (3)   A notice stating that it is strictly prohibited to leave any
materials outside the collection container.
      3.   Maintenance and operation.
         a.   No overflow collection items, litter, debris or dumped materials
will be allowed to accumulate within twenty feet (20') of any collection
container.
         b.   Collection containers will be maintained at all times in good
working order, and at all times free from graffiti, removed or damaged signs
and notifications, peeling paint, rust, and broken collection operating
mechanisms.
         c.   Collection containers will be serviced not less than weekly
between seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. and seven o'clock (7:00) p.m. on weekdays and
ten    o’clock (10:00) a.m. and six o’clock (6:00) p.m. on weekends. This
servicing includes maintenance of the container, the removal of collected
materials, and removal of any graffiti, litter, or nuisance conditions as
defined in this Title.
         d.   The operator will maintain an active email address and a twenty-
four (24)-hour telephone service with recording capability for the public to
register complaints.
         e.   It is strictly prohibited to allow a collection container to be
used for solid waste or hazardous materials.
      4.   Removal; notice.
         a.   The placement, maintenance, or site-hosting of a collection
container(s) in violation of any applicable requirements set forth in this
Section is hereby declared a nuisance.
         b.   In addition to the penalties provided in this Title and provided
by other law, the Village may further abate such nuisance by removing and
impounding the nuisance collection containers after providing reasonable notice
to the permittee, operator of the nuisance collection container, and owner of
the real property, by affixing signage on the nuisance collection container.
The dated notice will state that the nuisance collection container will be
removed and impounded within seven days of the posting of the notice, unless
the nuisance conditions are fully corrected to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Officer in strict accordance with the requirements of this Section.
         c.   Following impoundment, the Zoning Officer or his/her designee
will provide written notice to any reasonably ascertainable permittee, owner of
the nuisance collection container, and owner of the real property that:
            (1)   The collection container has been impounded; and
            (2)   If the collection container is not claimed within one hundred
eighty (180) days of impoundment, the Village will be authorized to dispose of
the collection container and its contents in accordance with the Law
Enforcement Disposition of Property Act, 765 ILCS 1030/3, or in any other
lawful manner.
         d.   The permittee, the owner of the nuisance collection container,
and the owner of the real property hosting the nuisance collection container
are jointly and severally liable for the reasonable costs of removal, storage,
and disposal incurred by the Village.
         e.   The impounded collection container can be recovered only after
the violation is corrected to the satisfaction of the Zoning Officer in strict
accordance with the requirements of this Section, all outstanding final code
violation fines, if any, have been paid in full, and a one hundred and fifty
dollars ($150.00) administrative processing fee is paid in full.
      5.   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this Section shall be
subject to a penalty as provided in this Title. Each day that a violation
exists shall be considered a separate violation of this Title. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-
7-2024)
9-3-14: PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide specific regulations
for the placement, construction and modification of personal wireless service
facilities, whether such facilities are used as a principal use or accessory
use unless otherwise exempted from these regulations.
      1.   In order to accommodate the communication needs of residents and
businesses while protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the community, the village board finds that these regulations are necessary to:
         a.   Facilitate the efficient provision of personal wireless services
to the residents of the village, as well as to other persons, firms, and/or
corporations in the vicinity of the village;
         b.   Minimize adverse visual effects of personal wireless service
facilities, through careful design, siting, screening, and landscape buffering
standards;
         c.   Minimize the impacts of personal wireless service facilities on,
and reduce conflicts with, the architectural, historical, tourism and economic
significance of historic structures and districts designated by the federal,
state and local governments;
         d.   Minimize the impacts of personal wireless service facilities on,
and reduce conflicts with, the architectural, historical, tourism and economic
significance of the village's principal commercial and tourist areas;
         e.   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from falling ice
and tower failure through structural standards and setback requirements;
         f.   Promote, encourage and maximize the shared use of existing and
approved buildings and antenna support structures to accommodate new personal
wireless service facilities in order to reduce the number of towers needed to
serve the community; and
         g.   Promote, encourage and maximize the use of existing tall
structures that have been established within the community for the collocation
of new personal wireless service facilities.
      2.   The provisions of this section are not intended and shall not be
interpreted to prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of
personal wireless services, nor shall any provision of this section be applied
in such a manner as to unreasonably discriminate between providers of
functionally equivalent personal wireless services.
   B.   Authorization. Subject to the limitations of this section, all
principal or accessory uses and structures that are personal wireless service
facilities, except small wireless facilities, shall be subject to the following
standards, regulations, and requirements at all times in those zoning districts
in which they are permitted or special uses. For personal wireless services
facilities located in the right of way, see village code section
7-1-5 .
   C.   Decisions. In the course of reviewing any request by an applicant to
provide personal wireless services, the village shall act within a reasonable
period of time after the request is duly filed with the village, taking into
account the nature and scope of the request. Any decision to deny such a
request shall be in writing and supported by substantial evidence contained in
a written record.
   D.   Review Costs. The village may employ an independent technical expert to
review any technical materials required by this section. The applicant shall
pay all reasonable costs of the review, including any administrative costs
incurred by the village.
   E.   Location. Personal wireless services antennas shall be located on
lawfully pre-existing antenna support structures or other lawfully pre-existing
buildings or structures wherever possible. No special use permits authorizing
construction of a new antenna support structure or addition to or expansion of
an existing antenna support structure or existing building or structure shall
be authorized unless the applicant is able to demonstrate that no lawfully pre-
existing antenna support structure or lawfully pre-existing building or
structure is available, on commercially reasonable terms, and sufficient for
the location of an antenna necessary for the provision of personal wireless
services. In support of this demonstration, the applicant may submit evidence
that:
      1.   No existing antenna support structures are located within the
geographic area required to meet the applicant's engineering requirements;
      2.   Existing antenna support structures are not of sufficient height and
size to meet the applicant's engineering requirements or do not have sufficient
structural strength to support the applicant's proposed antenna;
      3.   The applicant’s proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antennas on the existing antenna support structures or
the existing antennas would cause interference with the applicant’s proposed
antenna; and
      4.   The applicant has sought and been denied the opportunity to
collocate its antenna and equipment on an existing antenna support structure.
   F.   Antenna Support Structures. A special use permit shall be obtained
prior to the erection of any new antenna support structure. Applications shall
include, in addition to any requirements contained in title 8 and title 9 of
this code, those items listed below:
      1.   Legal description of the property on which the proposed personal
wireless services facility is to be located.
      2.   Identification of the owners of all personal wireless services
facilities to be located at the site.
      3.   Written authorization from the owner of the facility site to apply
on his/her behalf, if the landowner is not the owner of the personal wireless
services facility.
      4.   Documentation that the proposed personal wireless services facility
will comply with all applicable Federal, state and local laws.
      5.   Plat of survey of the property on which the proposed personal
wireless services facility is to be located.
      6.   An inventory, including a current map, depicting the applicant's
existing personal wireless services facilities and/or antennas, that are either
within the corporate limits of the village or within one and one-half miles of
the village corporate limits. This inventory shall include specific information
about the location, height, design (including type of construction), owner/
operator information (if available), and screening of each personal wireless
services facility. The map shall include all existing facilities and any
proposed facilities and clearly note the separation distance between each of
the personal wireless services facilities identified.
      7.   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and height
of the proposed personal wireless services facility, on site land uses and
zoning, adjacent land uses and zoning (including when adjacent to other
municipalities), zoning classification of the site and all properties within
the application, separation distances set forth in this section, adjacent
roadways, proposed means of access, setbacks from the property lines, elevation
drawings of the proposed personal wireless services facility, and any other
structures, topography, and parking.
      8.   Structural engineering plans sealed by a licensed structural
engineer showing the antenna and antenna support structure type and number with
a certification that the antenna support structure conforms to the current
structural standards and wind loading requirements.
      9.   The setback distance between the personal wireless services facility
and the nearest residentially zoned properties.
      10.   A description of the availability and suitability of the use of
existing antenna support structures, other buildings, or alternative
technology, not requiring the construction or use of a new antenna support
structure and an explanation as to why these facilities are not suitable.
      11.   A landscape plan showing existing landscaping to remain and
proposed landscaping in accordance with this title.
      12.   A photometric plan if lighting on the site is added, removed or
modified.
      13.   Elevations depicting how the structure and associated equipment
will be enclosed, screened and/or landscaped.
      14.   A notarized statement from the applicant as to whether the
construction of the personal wireless services facility will accommodate
collocation of additional antennas for future users.
      15.   A description of the feasible locations of future personal wireless
services facilities within the village based upon existing physical,
engineering, technological, or geographical limitations in the event the
proposed antenna support structure is erected.
      16.   Other information as the zoning officer deems necessary to evaluate
compliance with this section and all laws for the proposed antenna support
structure.
   G.   Design of New Antenna Support Structures for Collocation. Unless
otherwise authorized by the village board for good cause shown, every new
personal wireless services antenna support structure of a tower design shall be
designed, constructed, and installed to be of a sufficient size and capacity to
allow the location of additional personal wireless services antennas to
accommodate at least one additional personal wireless service provider on such
structure in the future. Any special use permit for such a support structure
may be conditioned upon the agreement of the applicant to allow collocation of
other personal wireless service providers on commercially reasonable terms
specified in such special use permit.
   H.   Design.
      1.   Every new personal wireless services antenna support structure
shall:
         a.   Comply with applicable zoning district bulk regulations with
regard to setbacks.
         b.   Not shall be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of any other existing antenna support structure.
         c.   Not exceed one hundred and fifty feet (150') in height.
         d.   Comply with all tree preservation requirements in chapter 8 of
this title.
      2.   Every new personal wireless services antenna support structure that
is of a tower design shall:
         a.   Be a monopole or stealth design rather than latticework design,
unless otherwise authorized by the village board for good cause shown.
         b.   Not be illuminated or have any signs installed thereon unless
otherwise required by federal law or regulations.
         c.   Be separated from any principal building by a distance that is
not less than one hundred and ten percent (110%) of the height of the tower.
For the purposes of this requirement, this distance shall be measured
horizontally from the center of the base of the supporting structure of the
tower to the point where the ground meets a vertical wall of such principal
building.
         d.   Have any deck on such a tower centered on the tower and the
radius from the center of the tower to the outside of the deck shall not exceed
six feet (6'), and each side of the deck shall not exceed six feet (6')
vertically.
   I.   Antennas on Buildings and Structures.
      1.   Personal wireless services antennas that are installed on buildings
and structures must be located only on a lawfully pre-existing building or
structure.
      2.   Such antennas and any necessary antenna support structures must be
fully enclosed or shielded from view from any point located off the zoning lot
on which they are located by a structure otherwise permitted on the zoning lot
and all electronic equipment must be fully enclosed in a structure otherwise
permitted on the zoning lot.
      3.   Such antennas shall not exceed the following dimensions:
         a.   Omnidirectional or whip antennas shall not exceed six inches (6")
in diameter and twelve feet (12') vertically;
         b.   Directional or panel antennas shall not exceed three feet (3')
horizontally and six feet (6') vertically.
      4.   All such antennas shall not exceed the maximum height authorized by
applicable zoning district regulations.
      5.   The zoning officer may approve without a hearing or approval by the
village board or plan commission a personal wireless services antenna on an
existing building or additional antennas on a lawfully existing antenna support
structure, provided:
         a.   The antenna is mounted directly to a lawfully existing principal
structure greater than forty feet (40') in height;
         b.   The antenna does not extend more than twenty feet (20') above the
highest point of the structure;
         c.   The antenna complies with all applicable FCC and FAA, federal,
state and local laws, codes, regulations and standards;
         d.   Any artificial illumination of the antenna and associated
equipment may only be permitted when required by the FCC or the FAA;
         e.   All ancillary equipment to the antenna including, but not limited
to, cable, conduit, connectors and/or an equipment enclosure used to house and
protect the necessary electronic equipment is screened in accordance with this
section; and
         f.   A building permit is obtained prior to construction and
installation of the antenna.
   J.   Lot Size. For purposes of determining whether the installation of a
personal wireless services facility or antenna support structure complies with
the district bulk regulations, including setback requirements, lot coverage
requirements, and other such requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot
shall control, even though the wireless communication facility may be located
on leased parcels or easements within such lots.
   K.   Color. Every personal wireless services antenna and antenna support
structure shall be neutral colors that are harmonious with, and that blend
with, the natural features, buildings, and structures surrounding such antenna
and antenna support structures; provided, however, that directional or panel
antennas and omnidirectional or whip antennas located on the exterior of a
building that will also serve as an antenna support structure shall be of
colors that match, and cause the antenna to blend with, the exterior of the
building.
   L.   Landscaping and Fencing. In addition to any other applicable buffer and
landscaping requirements of chapter 8 of this title, all ground-mounted
antennas, antenna support structures, related electronic equipment, and
equipment enclosures shall be subject to the following:
      1.   In order to minimize the visibility of such facilities, a natural
screen or fence shall be erected if not already provided, so as to provide the
maximum reasonable achievable screening as determined by the zoning officer.
      2.   Any natural screen shall be a minimum of six feet in height and a
minimum of four feet wide when planted, with dense plantings spaced no more
than two feet apart; provided that if the personal wireless services facility
is on a wooded lot, natural growth around the perimeter may substitute for
parts of the buffer.
      3.   Any fence shall be a minimum of eight feet in height, except where
fence height is otherwise limited by this title, and shall be of a style of
construction that provides a visual shield of the facilities.
      4.   All antenna support structures of a tower design shall be enclosed
with security fencing consisting of either a solid wood fence or masonry wall
six feet in height.
   M.   Protection Against Climbing. Every personal wireless services antenna
and antenna support structure shall be protected against unauthorized climbing
or other access by the public. Anticlimbing devices may not include barbed
wire, razor wire or similar sharp barrier.
   N.   Equipment Enclosures. All electronic and other related equipment and
appurtenances necessary for the operation of any personal wireless services
antenna shall, whenever possible, be located within a lawfully pre-existing
structure or completely below grade. When a new structure is required to house
such equipment, such structure shall be harmonious with, and blend with, the
natural features, buildings, and structures surrounding such structure. Any
freestanding structure that is not attached to or within an existing building
or located completely below grade shall not exceed a maximum height of fifteen
feet (15').
   O.   Compliance with Laws. No personal wireless services antenna or antenna
support structure shall be permitted in any zoning district in the village
unless it complies with all federal laws and regulations concerning its use and
operation. The operator of every personal wireless services antenna shall
maintain all licenses and permits required by other agencies and governments
with jurisdiction over the design, construction, location and operation of such
antenna. In addition, any such operator shall annually provide copies of such
licenses and permits, and provide evidence of renewal or extension thereof, to
the zoning officer. All personal wireless services facilities and antenna
support structures shall comply with applicable federal, state and local laws,
ordinance codes, rules, regulations and standards. All personal wireless
services facilities and antenna support structures shall comply with applicable
federal, state and local laws, ordinance codes, rules, regulations and
standards.
   P.   Compliance with Plans. Every personal wireless services antenna and
antenna support structure shall comply with all plans approved by the village.
   Q.   Limited to Applicant. Every ordinance granting approval of a special
use permit for a personal wireless services antenna or antenna support
structure shall state that any assignment or transfer of the special use permit
or any of the rights thereunder may be made only with the approval of the
village board.
   R.   Term Limitation. Unless otherwise provided by ordinance, every special
use permit for a personal wireless services antenna or antenna support
structure is subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Where the provider of personal wireless services is not the owner of
the land on which such antenna or structure is located, the term of the special
use permit is limited to the term of the lease or other agreement granting
rights to use the land; and
      2.   The special use permit shall be subject to review by the village
board, at ten year intervals, to determine whether the technology in the
provision of personal wireless services has changed such that the necessity for
the special use permit at the time of its approval has been eliminated or
modified, and whether the special use permit should be modified or terminated
as a result of any such change.
   S.   Abandonment and Removal. When one or more antennas, an antenna support
structure, or related equipment are not operated for the provision of personal
wireless services for a continuous period of twelve (12) months or more, such
antenna, antenna support structure, or related equipment will be deemed to be
abandoned and must be removed and disposed of in compliance with applicable
solid waste regulations, and the site must be restored to its natural condition
except that any landscaping and grading may remain. If two (2) or more
providers of personal wireless services use the antenna support structure or
related equipment to provide personal wireless services, then the period of
non-use under this provision shall be measured from the cessation of operation
at the location of such antenna support structure or related equipment by all
such providers. The village will be entitled to remove such an antenna, antenna
support structure, or related equipment if the owner does not remove such items
within ninety (90) days following the mailing of written notice that removal is
required. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, by the village to such owner at the last known address of such
owner.
   T.   Security Fund. The owner of every personal wireless services antenna
shall establish a security fund in a form and in an amount as set forth in this
subsection. The security fund shall serve as security for the removal of the
antenna. The security fund shall be continuously maintained in accordance with
this subsection at the owner’s sole cost and expense until the antenna is
removed.
      1.   Form. The owner shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form of cash, unconditional letter of credit, or surety bond, in a form
acceptable to the zoning officer.
      2.   Amount. The dollar amount of the security fund shall be equal to the
village engineer's reasonable estimated removal cost for the antenna.
      3.   Withdrawals. Following a removal notice provided under subsection 9-
3-17-S, the village may withdraw an amount from the security fund equal to the
village’s actual removal costs, provided that the owner or operator has not
removed the antenna within the ninety (90)-day notice period.
      4.   Return. Upon removal of the antenna, the zoning officer will return
the security fund, or such portion remaining on deposit, to the owner within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for the owner’s failure to remove the antenna upon notice provided
by subsection 9-3-17 S.
      5.   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the village with respect
to the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village,
whether reserved by this subsection or otherwise authorized by law, and no
action, proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund
shall affect any other right the village may have.
   U.   Insurance. The operator of every personal wireless services antenna
must annually tender to the zoning officer proof of public liability insurance
covering the facility in an amount not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00). (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-15: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Authorization. Subject to the limitations of this section, all
principal or accessory uses and structures that are small wireless facilities
shall be subject to the following standards, regulations, and requirements at
all times in those zoning districts in which they are permitted or special
uses.
   B.   Compliance with Laws.
      1.   All small wireless facilities must comply with the village code and
all other applicable Federal, state, and local laws.
      2.   For small cell wireless facilities located in the right of way, see
village code sec.
7-1-7 .
   C.   Permitted Use. Small wireless facilities are allowed as permitted uses
in all non-residential zoning districts.
   D.   Special Use. Small wireless facilities are allowed as a special use in
all residential districts and must be:
      1.   Designed so as to completely conceal all components of the small
wireless facility within a new or existing structure that is architecturally
compatible with its surroundings; which may include an antenna behind louvers,
or in a false roof on a building, or inside a steeple, clock tower, flagpole
(with a maximum diameter of fifteen inches (15")), campanile or bell tower; or
      2.   Camouflaged so as to blend into its surroundings to such an extent
that it is no more obtrusive to the casual observer than the structure on which
it is:
         a.   Placed, such as a rooftop, lighting standard or existing tower;
or
         b.   Replacing, such as a school athletic field light standard, or
other similar structure.
   E.   Height.
      1.   The maximum height of a small wireless facility collocated on an
existing structure shall be limited to ten feet (10') above the structure on
which the small wireless facility is collocated.
      2.   The maximum height of a new small wireless facility which is not
collocated on an existing structure may not exceed:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole
that is in place on the date the application is submitted, that is located
within three hundred feet (300') of the small wireless facility and that is in
the same right-of-way within the village; or
         b.   Forty-five feet (45') above ground level.
   F.   Special Floor Area Ratio Exception. A small wireless facility
collocated on an existing structure shall not count toward any required floor
area ratio. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-16: ADULT BUSINESS USES:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide specific regulations
for adult business uses, in order to accommodate constitutionally-protected
non-obscene sexual expression, while protecting the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the village. The village’s corporate authorities find that:
      1.   Adult business uses require special supervision from the village’s
law enforcement and public safety agencies to protect and preserve the public
health, safety, morals, and welfare of the patrons and employees of businesses
as well as the village's residents;
      2.   Adult business uses are frequently used for unlawful sexual
activities, including prostitution and sexual liaisons of a casual nature;
      3.   Sexually transmitted diseases are a legitimate health concern for
the village that demands reasonable regulation of adult business uses by the
village in accordance with this section;
      4.   This section’s regulations are a legitimate and reasonable means of
accountability to ensure that operators of adult business uses comply with
reasonable regulations and to ensure that operators do not allow their
establishments to be used as places of illegal sexual activity or solicitation;
      5.   There is convincing documented evidence that adult business uses,
because of their outward appearance and very nature:
         a.   Have a deleterious effect on both the existing businesses around
them and the surrounding residential areas adjacent to them;
         b.   Cause increased crime, particularly during the overnight hours;
and
         c.   Reduce property values;
      6.   The corporate authorities desire to minimize and control these
adverse effects by regulating adult business uses in accordance with this
section;
      7.   By minimizing and controlling these adverse effects, the corporate
authorities seek to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public;
protect the public from increased crime; preserve quality of life; preserve
property values and the character of the village’s neighborhoods; and deter the
spread of urban blight;
      8.   The corporate authorities do not enact this section to suppress or
authorize the suppression of any speech activities protected by the First
Amendment; rather, this section establishes contentneutral regulations that
address the secondary effects of adult business uses;
      9.   The corporate authorities do not enact this section to restrict,
deny, or authorize the restriction or denial of access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny, or authorize
denial of, access by the distributors and exhibitors of adult entertainment and
adult materials to their intended market;
      10.   Evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of adult business
uses on communities is readily available in many court decisions, including,
but not limited to: Township of Littleton, Colorado v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, LLC, 541
U.S. 774 (2004); City of Los Angeles v. Almaeda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425
(2002); Township of Erie v. Pap's A.M., 529 U.S. 277 (2000); Barnes v. Glen
Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); Township of Renton v. Playtime Theatres,
Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976);
California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); Illinois One News, Inc. v. City of
Marshall, 477 F.3d 461 (7th Cir. 2007); Andy's Restaurant & Lounge, Inc. v.
City of Gary, 466 F.3d 550 (7th Cir. 2006); Joelner v. Village of Washington
Park, 378 F.3d 613 (7th Cir. 2004); G.M. Enterprises, Inc. v. Town of St.
Joseph, 350 F.3d 631 (7th Cir. 2003); Pleasureland Museum, Inc. v. Beutter, 288
F.3d 988 (7th Cir. 2002); Shultz v. City of Cumberland, 288 F.3d 831 (7th Cir.
2000); Genusa v. City of Peoria, 619 F.2d 1203 (7th Cir. 1980); Excalibur
Group, Inc. v. City of Minneapolis, 116 F.3d 1216 (8th Cir. 1997); BBL, Inc. v.
City of Angola, Cause No. 1:13-CV-76-RLM-RBC, 41 (N.D. Ind. Dec. 31, 2013);
City of Chicago v. Pooh Bah Enterprises, Inc., 224 Ill. 2d 390 (2006); and XLP
Corporation v. County of Lake, 359 Ill. App. 3d 239 (2d Dist. 2005); Northend
Cinema, Inc. v. City of Seattle, 90 Wash. 2d 709 (Wash. Sup. Ct. 1978)
(collectively, the “Cases”);
      11.   Many academics, municipalities, and other units of government
throughout the country have studied and found significant adverse secondary
effects associated with adult business uses, including, but not limited to:
         a.   McCord, E. S., & Tewksbury, R., Does the Presence of Sexually
Oriented Businesses Relate to Increased Levels of Crime? An Examination Using
Spatial Analyses. Crime & Delinquency, 59(7), 1108–1125 (2013);
         b.   Reuben J, Serio-Chapman C, Welsh C, Matens R, Sherman SG,
Correlates of current transactional sex among a sample of female exotic dancers
in Baltimore, MD. J Urban Health (2011);
         c.   Metropolis, Illinois, Investigator Affidavits Documenting Paid
Sexual Conduct in Adult Entertainment Club, 2011-2012;
         d.   Clarksville, Indiana, Investigator Report re: Live Sexual Conduct
in Adult Entertainment Establishment Booth Areas, 2009;
         e.   New Albany, Indiana, Investigator Report re: Illicit Sexual
Conduct at Gentlemen’s Club, 2009;
         f.   El Paso, Texas, Twenty-One Affidavits re: Illicit Sex Acts and
Unsanitary Conditions in Adult Cabarets and Adult Bookstores, 2008;
         g.   Rural Hotspots: The Case of Adult Businesses, 19 Criminal Justice
Policy Review 153 (2008);
         h.   Crime-Related Secondary Effects of Sexually-Oriented Businesses:
Report to the Jackson County Legislature, May 9, 2008;
         i.   Rochester/Olmsted Consolidated Planning Department and Office of
the Rochester City Attorney, Adult Entertainment, Land Use and Legal
Perspectives (1988);
         j.   Adult Cabarets, Factual Record, Phoenix, Arizona (1995-1998);
         k.   Adult Business Study, Planning Department, City of Phoenix
(1979);
         l.   Indianapolis Department of Metropolitan Development, Division of
Planning, Adult Entertainment Businesses in Indianapolis, An Analysis (1984);
         m.   Indianapolis Department of Metropolitan Development, Division of
Planning, Study of Sexually Oriented Businesses and Property Values (1983);
         n.   M. McPherson and G. Silloway, Minnesota Crime Prevention Center,
Inc., An Analysis of the Relationship between Adult Entertainment
Establishments, Crime, and Housing Values (1980);
         o.   St. Paul, Minnesota, Department of Planning and Economic
Development and Community Crime Prevention Project, Effects on Surrounding Area
of Adult Entertainment Businesses in St. Paul (1979);
         p.   City of Phoenix Planning Department, Adult Business Study (1979);
         q.   Staff Report, Amendment to Zoning Regulations, Adult Businesses
in C-2 Zone with Conditional Use Permit, City of Whittier, California (1978);
and
         r.   City of Amarillo, Texas, Planning Department, A Report on Zoning
and Other Methods of Regulating Adult Entertainment in Amarillo (1977)
(collectively, the “Studies”);
      12.   The United States Congress has heard testimony detailing the
negative secondary effects associated with adult business uses on numerous
occasions, including 136 Cong. Rec. S. 8987; 135 Cong. Rec. S. 14519; 135 Cong.
Rec. S. 5636; 134 Cong. Rec. E. 3750 (collectively, the “Testimony”); and
      13.   Based on secondary effects discussed and found to exist in the
cases, studies, and testimony, as well as all evidence presented and matters
discussed during all public hearings and meetings conducted by the village, and
all other relevant information, including the corporate authorities’ own
knowledge and experience, the corporate authorities find that:
         a.   Adult business uses can contribute to increased crime in the area
where such businesses are located and burden local law enforcement and public
safety efforts. Crimes associated with adult business uses include, but are not
limited to:
            (1)   Prostitution and other sex related offenses;
            (2)   Drug use and dealing; and
            (3)   Money laundering;
         b.   Adult business uses can contribute to significant public health
concerns, including the spread of HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted
diseases;
         c.   Adult business uses and their outward appearance can
significantly:
            (1)   Contribute to the deterioration of residential neighborhoods;
            (2)   Increase neighborhood blight;
            (3)   Impair the character and quality of residential housing in
the surrounding area; and
            (4)   Teduce overall housing appeal for potential residents;
         d.   The concentration of adult business uses in any one area can
greatly impact the area by causing blight, decreasing property values, reducing
the village’s tax base, making the area less attractive to non-adult business
uses (i.e., marketability), and increasing crime;
         e.   Adult business uses can produce higher levels of noise, traffic,
and glare as compared to other businesses by virtue of adult business uses’
hours of operation;
         f.   Serving or otherwise allowing the consumption of alcoholic liquor
at adult business uses can lead to increased criminal activity and exacerbate
neighborhood deterioration;
         g.   requiring adult businesses to be separated from each other and
dissimilar uses is a reasonable regulation that will provide for the protection
of the image of the village and its property values, and protect the residents
of the village from the negative secondary effects of such business uses, while
providing to those who desire to patronize adult business uses an opportunity
in areas of the village which are appropriate for location of adult business
uses;
         h.   The findings set forth in this section above constitute
substantial governmental concerns;
         i.   Adult business uses have operational characteristics that require
reasonable governmental regulation to address those substantial governmental
concerns; and
         j.   Passing this section will promote and protect the public health,
safety and welfare.
   B.   Restrictions on the Operation of Adult Business Uses:
      1.   Advertising: No adult business use shall be conducted in a manner
that permits the observation of any material depicting, describing or relating
to any specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas by display,
decorations, sign, show window or other opening from any public right of way,
site development area (SDA) line or property line.
      2.   Sale of Alcohol: No adult business use shall be located on any
premises for which a license to sell alcohol has been issued and no alcohol
shall be permitted on such premises.
      3.   Persons Under Eighteen (18) Years of Age Prohibited:
         a.   Persons under the age of eighteen (18) years are prohibited from
being in or on the premises of any adult business use.
         b.   Any owner, manager, or other person in charge of any adult
business use is prohibited from knowingly permitting any person under the age
of eighteen (18) years from being in or on the premises.
      4.   Adult business uses must comply with applicable setback
requirements. See Section 9-5-10 F.12. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-17: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
   A.   Requirements For Accessory Dwelling Unit: An ADU may be maintained as
an accessory use on a lot with a single dwelling unit in the R-1, R-2 and R-
3 districts, upon issuance of a building permit for the accessory unit, subject
to the following requirements.
      1.   Only one accessory unit may be maintained per lot, and must be
accessory to a principal structure.
      2.   At least one of the occupants of the primary unit or ADU must be the
legal or beneficial owner of the property.
      3.   The ADU must conform to all applicable yard and bulk requirements.
      4.   The exterior of the ADU must be compatible in design with the
primary residence.
      5.   The entrance for the ADU may not face the front yard lot line.
      6.   The plans for an ADU must demonstrate where one additional vehicle
can be parked on an allowed parking surface, such as a driveway, or within a
garage, while maintaining compliance with the primary unit parking requirements
listed in
Chapter 7.
      7.   The ADU may not exceed the gross living area of the existing
principal structure.
   B.   In addition to the standards listed in
9-3-3B regulating detached accessory structures, detached ADUs must also comply
with the following:
      1.   A ten foot (10') separation distance must be maintained between the
foundations of the two (2) units.
      2.   A lot with an ADU may have no more than three (3) accessory
structures, including the ADU.
      3.   A detached ADU may be no larger than eight hundred (800) square
feet. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024; amd. Ord. 2024-44, 8-1-2024)
9-3-18: CONFORMANCE WITH STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS:
No building or parcel of land shall be devoted to any use and no building or
structure, or part thereof shall be erected, raised, moved, reconstructed,
extended, enlarged or altered, except in conformity with the provisions of
Title 8, Chapter 1, Article L: Stormwater Management Regulations, of this code,
which are expressly incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-19: UTILITIES AND PUBLIC FACILITIES:
   A.   Public Sanitary Sewer and Water Supply: Each use hereafter established
which requires sewage and water facilities shall be served by public sewage and
water systems except as may be otherwise permitted by provisions of this code.
   B.   Public Service and Utility Uses: The following public service and
utility uses are permitted in any district: wires, cables, conduits, vaults,
laterals, pipes, mains and valves or other similar transmission and
distributing equipment; provided, at least one of the following criteria are
met:
      1.   Is located underground; or
      2.   Is an aboveground service facility that is less than four feet (4')
in all dimensions; or
      3.   Is for temporary service during a period of new construction; or
      4.   Is located at the request of the Village; or
      5.   Is temporary for minor repair of existing facilities.
   C.   Emergency warning sirens, operated by an authorized emergency services
and disaster agency, not exceeding fifty-five feet (55') in mounted height,
shall be a permitted use in every district.
   D.   Aboveground Service Facilities:
      1.   Intent: To specify the location of aboveground service facilities so
as to that minimizes their adverse impact on the Village’s appearance,
community character, and public health safety, and welfare; and provide public
utilities the ability to provide services to the community.
      2.   Applicability: Unless otherwise permitted as part of a special use
approval for the property on which they are located or as allowed by another
title of the Village Code, no aboveground service facility shall be constructed
or installed on except in compliance with the provisions of this section.
      3.   Dimensions: Aboveground service facilities may not exceed four feet
(4') in any dimension.
      4.   Location: Above ground service facilities may be located:
         a.   In any established utility easement to which the utility has an
access right.
         b.   Within the defined building area of a property and not located in
any defined yards.
         c.   On property owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the Village
of Woodridge provided a lease, franchise or other written agreement is entered
into with the Village after September 16, 2007, or where a license authorizing
such aboveground service facility has been approved by the village after
September 16, 2007.
         d.   Aboveground utility facilities may be a principal use on a
property only if approved by the Village as a special use.
         e.   Aboveground service facilities shall not be located in the
buildable area between a principal residential building and the front or
exterior side yards.
      5.   Building Permit Requirements: A building permit shall be obtained
prior to the installation of any aboveground service facility. Applications for
a building permit to install an aboveground service facility shall include any
requirements contained in title 8 of this code and additional information as
may be required by the Zoning Officer to determine safe installation of
equipment.
      6.   Other Restrictions:
         a.   Buildable Area: Aboveground service facilities shall not be
located in the area between a principal residential building and the front or
exterior side yards.
         b.   No signage, advertising, or information shall be allowed on or
above aboveground service facilities other than four inches by six inches (4" x
6") identifying the service entity.
         c.   No visible or audible signals or lights or illumination shall be
permitted on an aboveground service facility except for warning lights on cell
towers, monopoles, water towers and similar structures if required by the
federal aviation administration.
         d.   Aboveground service facilities shall be of earth tone colors and
be maintained in good condition including, but not limited to, being free of
peeling paint, rust and graffiti.
         e.   Aboveground service facilities shall be screened in accordance
Chapter 8: Landscaping and Screening.
         f.   In the event the use of any aboveground service facility has been
discontinued for a period of one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days, the
aboveground service facility shall be deemed to be abandoned. Determination of
the date of abandonment shall be made by the zoning officer who shall have the
right to request documentation and/or affidavits from the service entity
regarding the use of the aboveground service facility. Upon the zoning
officer's determination and written notification to the service entity of such
abandonment, the service entity shall have an additional ninety (90) days
within which to:
         (1)   Reactivate the use of the aboveground service facility or
transfer the aboveground service facility to another service entity which makes
actual use of the facility; or
         (2)   Dismantle and remove the aboveground service facility, and
notify the zoning officer in writing of the completion of such removal. (Ord.
2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-20: WATCHMAN AND CARETAKER FACILITIES:
Watchman and caretaker facilities are a permitted accessory use in the M-1,
RBC, and ORI zoning districts, subject to the requirements for accessory
structures listed in this chapter. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-21: PACKAGE LOCKERS:
Non post office associated lockers for package drop off and pick up that are
located outside of a building should be in an area that is well lit and fully
visible to the greatest extent possible, and is not located in a position that
would encourage vehicles parking at the structure to block access or fire
lanes. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-22: CANNABIS DISPENSARIES:
A Cannabis dispensaries listed herein are subject to the following terms and
conditions:
   A.   Cannabis Dispensaries, their "principal officers," as defined and
referred to in the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1, et
seq.), as amended, and the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1, et seq.), as amended, their agents and their
employees shall strictly comply with all laws, regulations, ordinances and
directives of the State and the Village, including, but not limited to,
licensing requirements, registration requirements, operations requirements,
zoning approvals, special use conditions and zoning requirements.
   B.   No Cannabis Dispensary may operate in the Village of Woodridge without
first receiving all the approvals required for the operation if the cannabis
business establishment, including, but not limited to, from the Village, the
Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation and the Illinois
Department of Agriculture. Proof of receipt of all required approvals must be
provided to the Zoning Officer prior to operation of a Cannabis Dispensary.
   C.   Any part of a building (also known as a tenant space) that is occupied
by a Cannabis Dispensary shall be at least one thousand feet (1,000') from the
perimeter lot line of any property within the corporate limits of the Village
of Woodridge that is used for a school serving students in any grade level
between kindergarten and twelfth grade.   
   D.   Any part of a building (also known as a tenant space) that is occupied
by a Cannabis Dispensary shall be at least one hundred feet (100') from the
perimeter lot line of any property within the corporate limits of the Village
of Woodridge that is zoned for or used as a dwelling.
   E.   There shall be a maximum of two (2) Cannabis Dispensaries within the
corporate limits of the Village of Woodridge. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-3-23: REGULATIONS FOR CARGO CONTAINERS:
A Outdooor storage of cargo containers may be permitted in the M-1 zoning
district subject to the following regulations.
   A.   Access: Cargo containers on or off a chassis shall not be stored in a
manner or in a location that impedes access to public rights of way, structures
and buildings. Cargo containers shall not be located or stored on any easement.
   B.   Materials Stored: Materials and products stored in the cargo containers
shall not include any that decompose by detonation including, but not limited
to, those materials and products listed in Chapter 10 Performance Standards.
All other materials stored at the facility shall be properly placarded in
accordance with the Emergency Response Guidebook (ERG). The facility manager
shall maintain adequate and current bills of lading for the contents of all
containers stored on site.
   C.   Minimum Lot Area: Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter to
the contrary, cargo container facilities shall have a minimum lot area of
twenty (20) acres.
   D.   Paving: Cargo containers shall be stored on an asphalt or concrete
surface that complies with all applicable Village of Woodridge drainage and
stormwater detention regulations. Gravel, grindings, and tar and chip surfaces
are prohibited.
   E.   Parking: No portion of any required off street parking or loading areas
shall be used for the storage of cargo containers or similar storage devices.
   F.   Racking Height: Racking of a chassis shall not exceed fifty seven feet
(57') in height. For racked chassis that exceed thirty feet (30') in height,
one additional foot shall be added to all setbacks from the property line for
each one foot (1') of height in excess of thirty feet (30') for the racked
chassis.
   G.   Screening And Landscaping: Except as otherwise required in this
chapter, screening and landscaping shall be provided in accordance with Chapter
8 Landscaping & Screening of this title.
   H.   Setbacks And Separations:
      1.   Cargo container and chassis storage shall be located a minimum of
one thousand feet (1,000') from any property zoned or used for residential land
uses.
      2.   If containers are stacked, an additional thirty feet (30') shall be
added to all setbacks from the property line for each level of stacked
containers in excess of one.
      3.   Cargo container and chassis storage shall be located a minimum of
thirty feet (30') from any structure or building on the cargo container
facility site.
      4.   Thirty foot (30') wide paved access drives shall be maintained at
all times on all sides of a grouping.
   I.   Groupings: Side by side groupings shall not exceed a width of twenty
(20) containers, twenty (20) chassis, or any combination of twenty (20)
thereof. End to end groupings shall not exceed a length of two (2) containers,
two (2) chassis, or a combination of two (2) thereof. The interiors of all
containers shall be accessible from the thirty foot (30') wide paved access
drive required in subsection 8d of this section.
   J.   Stacking Height: Cargo containers shall not be stacked more than three
(3) containers high. Empty chassis shall not be stacked more than five (5)
chassis high.
   K.   Signage: No signage, other than company identification logos and
placards required by the ERG, shall be placed on any cargo container.
   L.   Container Modifications: Cargo containers shall not be modified or
retrofitted for on-site habitation. Containers shall not have windows; heating,
cooling, or plumbing systems; or multiple entrances. Cargo containers may have
electric and ventilation systems as necessary to meet the minimum codes and
standards for lighting and air circulation for storage purposes.
   M.   Fire Suppression and Insurance: All cargo container facilities shall
provide access for emergency vehicles to all cargo containers both on and off a
chassis. All cargo container facilities shall carry adequate insurance in an
amount subject to the approval of the Zoning Official and shall provide a
certificate of insurance to the Zoning Official prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
   N.   Structural Integrity and Surety for Removal:
      1.   All cargo containers shall be safe, structurally sound, stable and
in good repair as determined by the Zoning Official.
      2.   Any cargo container that, in the opinion of the Zoning Official,
becomes unsound, unstable, or otherwise dangerous shall be immediately repaired
or removed from the property.
      3.   Any cargo container stored or kept in violation of any applicable
laws or regulations shall be deemed to be dangerous and a public nuisance and
may be immediately removed by the Village.
      4.   Any cost or expense associated with the removal of one or more cargo
containers shall be the responsibility of the property owner. All associated
costs including, but not limited to, legal fees and court costs shall
constitute a debt due and owed to the Village and shall be recordable as a lien
upon the land of the cargo container facility and/or property owner. (Ord.
2024-6, 3-7-2024)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
9-4-1: Districts Established
9-4-2: Official Zoning Map
9-4-3: District Boundaries
9-4-4: Zoning of Unclassified and Annexed Territory
9-4-5: Zoning of Vacated Areas
9-4-6: Zoning District Bulk Standards
9-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this Title, the Village is
hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
R-1 Detached Single Dwelling Unit District
R-2 Detached Single Dwelling Unit District
R-3 Detached Single Dwelling Unit District
A-1 Attached Dwelling Unit District
A-2 Attached Dwelling Unit District
B-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
B-2 Community Shopping District
B-3 Highway and Service Business District
RBC Regional Business Center District
ORI Office, Research, and Light Industrial District
M-1 Manufacturing District
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-4-2: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
On or before March 31 of each year, the Village shall cause to be published a
map clearly showing the existing zoning districts of the Village for the
preceding calendar year. Said map shall be designed as the Official Zoning Map
of the Village. The Official Zoning Map is expressly incorporated in this Title
by reference as if fully set forth and described herein. If in any calendar
year there are no changes to the Official Zoning Map in the Village, the Mayor
and Board of Trustees shall not be required to publish a new Official Zoning
Map for such calendar year. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-4-3: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various zoning
districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   A zoning district boundary line following a street or extension thereof
shall be construed to be the center line of such street or extension.
   B.   A zoning district boundary line approximately following a lot line or
extension thereof shall be construed as following such lot line or extension.
   C.   Where the district boundaries do not coincide with the location of
streets, lot lines or extensions thereof, the district boundaries shall be
determined by the measurements shown on the Official Zoning Map or in the
absence of such measurements, the district boundaries shall be determined by
scaling the Zoning Map.
   D.   Questions concerning the exact locations of zoning district boundary
lines shall be interpreted by the Zoning Officer. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-4-4: ZONING OF UNCLASSIFIED AND ANNEXED TERRITORY:
Any land whose classification is not shown on the Official Zoning Map and land
hereafter annexed to the Village shall be automatically classified in the R-
1 District until differently classified by amendment. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-4-5: ZONING OF VACATED AREAS:
Whenever any street or public way is vacated by official action of the Village
Board, the zoning district adjoining each side of such street or public way
shall be automatically extended to the center line of such vacated property (or
to the reversionary owner should such reversionary rights be different than the
center line of the right of way) and all area included in the vacation shall
then and henceforth be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended
districts. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-4-6: ZONING DISTRICT BULK STANDARDS:
Bulk standards applicable in each of the zoning districts established in
Section
9-4-1  shall be as specified in this subsection and Table 4-1, and as may be
otherwise regulated in this Zoning Code.
   Table 4-1: Woodridge Zoning District Bulk Standards
         Min              Min     Min      Min     Min
         Lot  Min   Min   Front   Interior Rear    Exterior Max Lot  Max      Max
District Area Lot   lot   Yard    Side     Yard    Side     Coverage Building FAR
         (sf) Width Depth Setback Yard     Setback Yard              Height
                                  Setback          Setback
                                      Min     Min      Min     Min
         Min Lot                Min   Front   Interior Rear    Exterior Max Lot                                            Max
District Area    Min Lot Width  lot   Yard    Side     Yard    Side     Coverage Max Building Height                       FAR
         (sf)                   Depth Setback Yard     Setback Yard
                                              Setback          Setback
R-1      43,560  100’ for SFD 175’50’   15’    50’   50’    35%      35’ or 2 stories (less of)              N/A
                 150’ all other
R-2      12,000  80’ for SFD  150’30’   10’    40’   30’    40%      35’ or 2 stories (less of)              N/A
                 120’ all other
                                              7’
                                              10% of
                 66’ for SFD                lot
R-3      8,200   100’ all othe100’25’   width    25’   15’    50%      35’ or 2 stories (less of)              N/A
                                              for
                                              other
                                              uses
         greater
         of
A-1      4,350/  80’          100’25’   10’    35’   25’    50%      35’ or 2 stories (less of)              N/A
         du or
         10,000
         greater
         of                                                                      45’ or 3 stories (less of) for attached
A-2      2,725/  90’          100’25’   10’    30’   25’    50%      units                                     N/A
         du or
         13,000
B-1      20,000  100’         150’30’   10’    20’   30’    50%      35’                                     Varies
B-2      20,000  100’         150’30’   20’    20’   30'      50%      35’                                     Varies
B-3      20,000  100’         150’30’   30’    20’   30’    50%      35’                                     Varies
RBC      Varies  150’         200’Varies  Varies   Varies  Varies   Varies   Varies                                    Varies
ORI      87,120  175’         250’Varies  Varies   Varies  Varies   Varies   40’                                     0.6
                                                                                 (Except Hotels/ Offices)
M-1      43,560  150’         200’40’   20’    20’   40’    50%      40’                                     0.6
 
   A.   Minimum Zoning District Sizes: B-1, B-2, RBC, ORI, M-1: The minimum
district sizes listed below must be met if any land is to be rezoned, unless
the land to be rezoned is contiguous to land with the proposed zoning
designation that may or may not meet the minimum district area.
      1.   The minimum size of a B-1 zoning district shall be two (2) acres.
      2.   The minimum size of a B-2 zoning district shall be five (5) acres.
      3.   The minimum size of an RBC zoning district shall be three hundred
twenty (320) acres (See Section 9-5-9-F-1).
      4.   The minimum size of an ORI zoning district shall be five (5) acres
(See Section 9-5-10-F-1).
      5.   The minimum size of an M-1 zoning district shall be ten (10) acres.
   B.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio in B-1 and B-2: The following maximum floor
area ratios shall apply based on the type of permitted or special use:
      1.   Banks and financial institutions, business and professional offices,
medical and dental clinics and offices, optometrist offices, public or private
facilities such as libraries, hospitals, institutions, government buildings and
other similar uses, and veterinarian offices: 0.5.
      2.   All other uses: 0.25.
      3.   Mixed use developments with office building and other uses allowable
in the district: 0.5.
   C.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio in the B-3 zoning district: The following
floor area ratios shall apply based on the type of permitted or special use:
      1.   Hotels and motels, warehousing and storage facilities, or cartage
express facilities: 0.5.
      2.   All other uses: 0.25.
      3.   Mixed use developments with uses from subsections C.1.and C.2. of
this section: 0.5.
   D.   Height in the A-2 district: All uses other than attached dwelling units
can be no taller than thirty-five feet (35’) or three (3) stories. (Ord. 2024-
6, 3-7-2024)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
SECTION:
9-5-1: R-1 Detached Single Dwelling Unit District
9-5-2: R-2 Detached Single Dwelling Unit District
9-5-3: R-3 Detached Single Dwelling Unit District
9-5-4: A-1 Attached Dwelling Unit District
9-5-5: A-2 Attached Dwelling Unit District
BUSINESS DISTRICTS:
SECTION:
9-5-6: B-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
9-5-7: B-2 Commercial Shopping District
9-5-8: B-3 Highway And Service Business District
9-5-9: RBC Regional Business Center District
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
SECTION:
9-5-10: ORI Office, Research, And Light Industrial District
9-5-11: M-1 Manufacturing District
ALLOWED USES:
SECTION:
9-5-12: Allowed Uses
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
9-5-1: R-1 DETACHED SINGLE DWELLING UNIT DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The R-1 Residential District provides standards for larger lot
single-unit housing opportunities in the Village. The district facilitates
maintaining environmental features (such as a tree canopy) within Woodridge and
allows for recreational and community serving use that are to be sited on large
properties.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the R-1 District are listed in the
Zoning District Use Table 5.12.
   C.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the R-1 District are listed in the Zoning
District Use Table 5.12.
   D.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the R-1 District are
listed in Chapter 7.
   E.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the R-1 District
including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas, building
coverage, and building height are listed in Table 5.1, and illustrated below.
Table 5.1 - R-1 Residential District
Table 5.1 - R-1 Residential District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)       43,560
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)          100 - Residential
                                 150 - Other Uses
Minimum Lot Depth (ft.)          175
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.) 50
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)          15 – Interior
                                 50 – Exterior
Minimum Rear Yard (ft.)          50
Maximum Building Coverage        35%
Maximum Building Height          35 ft. or 2 stories, whichever is lower
 
Figure 5.1: R-1 Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3205.png]
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-5-2: R-2 DETACHED SINGLE DWELLING UNIT DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The R-2 Residential District allows for single-unit
residential dwellings on smaller lots than the R-1 District. This District is
located in portions of the Village where such middle size lots can be sited so
as to create neighborhood settings and connect to existing residential areas.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the R-2 District are listed in the
Zoning District Use Table 5.12.
   C.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the R-2 District are listed in the Zoning
District Use Table 5.12.
   D.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the R-2 District are
listed in Chapter 7.
   E.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the R-2 District
including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas, building
coverage, and building height are listed in Table 5.2, and illustrated below.
Table 5.2 - R-2 Residential District
Table 5.2 - R-2 Residential District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)       12,000
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)          80 - Residential
                                 120 - Other Uses
Minimum Lot Depth (ft.)          150
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.) 30
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)          10 – Interior
                                 30 – Exterior
Minimum Rear Yard (ft.)          40
Maximum Building Coverage        40%
Maximum Building Height          35 ft. or 2 stories, whichever is lower
 
Figure 5.2: R-2 Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3203.png]
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-5-3: R-3 DETACHED SINGLE DWELLING UNIT DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The R-3 Residential District is the predominant and most
compact single-unit development District within the Village. Development in the
District reflects traditional suburban development, often with curvilinear
streets, that supports connectivity to adjacent residential areas and
commercial services by auto, bicycle or on foot.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the R-3 District are listed in the
Zoning District Use Table 5.12.
   C.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the R-3 District are listed in the Zoning
District Use Table 5.12.
   D.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the R-3 District are
listed in Chapter 7.
   E.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the R-3 District
including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas, building
coverage, and building height are listed in Table 5.3, and illustrated below.
Table 5.3 - R-3 Residential District
Table 5.3 - R-3 Residential District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)       8,200
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)          66 - Residential
                                 100 - Other Uses
Minimum Lot Depth (ft.)          100
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.) 25
                                 7 – Interior (SDU)
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)          10% lot width - Interior (all other uses)
                                 15 – Exterior
Minimum Rear Yard (ft.)          25
Maximum Building Coverage        50%
Maximum Building Height          35 ft. or 2 stories, whichever is lower
 
Figure 5.3: R-3 Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3201.png]
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-5-4: A-1 ATTACHED DWELLING UNIT DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The A-1 Residential District provides area for attached single
dwelling units (duplexes or townhomes) and attached multi-unit (apartments or
condos) housing in the Village. While applied in limited parts of the Village,
it creates spaces that add to the diversity of housing options in the Village.
These residential clusters are generally located near arterial roadways and
provide access to a variety of businesses by car or nonmotorized travel.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the A-1 District are listed in the
Zoning District Use Table 5.12.
   C.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the A-1 District are listed in the Zoning
District Use Table 5.12.
   D.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the A-1 District are
listed in Chapter 7.
   E.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the A-1 District
including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas, building
coverage, and building height are listed in Table 5.4, and illustrated below.
Table 5.4 - A-1 Residential District
Table 5.4 - A-1 Residential District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.). Greater of: 10,000 or 4,350 per dwelling
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)                 80
Minimum Lot Depth (ft.)                 100
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.)        25
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)                 10 – Interior
                                        25 – Exterior
Minimum Rear Yard (ft.)                 35
Maximum Building Coverage               50%
Maximum Building Height                 35 ft. or 2 stories, whichever is lower
 
Figure 5.4: A-1 Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3199.png]
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-5-5: A-2 ATTACHED DWELLING UNIT DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The A-2 Residential District provides areas primarily for
attached multi-unit dwellings. This District allows for denser attached single
unit dwelling (duplexes or townhomes) and multi-unit (apartments or condos)
housing in the Village. Applied in larger development tracts or small/infill
areas, the District supports connectivity to other residential areas,
commercial uses, and community functions by car or non-motorized travel.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the A-2 District are listed in the
Zoning District Use Table 5.12.
   C.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the A-2 District are listed in the Zoning
District Use Table 5.12.
   D.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the A-2 District are
listed in Chapter 7.
   E.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the A-2 District
including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas, building
coverage, and building height are listed in Table 5.5, and illustrated below.
Table 5.5 - A-2 Residential District
Table 5.5 - A-2 Residential District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.). Greater of: 13,000 or 2,275 per dwelling
Minimum Lot Width at front yard line    90
(ft.)
Minimum Lot Depth (ft.)                 100
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.)        25
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)                 10 – Interior
                                        25 – Exterior
Minimum Rear Yard (ft.)                 30
Maximum Building Coverage               50%
                                        45 ft. or 3 stories, whichever is lower
Maximum Building Height                 for MUD. 35 feet or 2 stories,
                                        whichever is lower for all other uses
 
Figure 5.5: A-2 Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3197.png]
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
9-5-6: B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The B-1 Neighborhood Shopping District supports small- to
medium-scale commercial centers throughout the Village. Permitted and special
uses in the District primarily support nearby residents’ day to day shopping
and service requirements.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the B-1 District are listed in the
Zoning District Use Table 5.12.
   C.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the B-1 District are listed in the Zoning
District Use Table 5.12.
   D.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the B-1 District are
listed in Chapter 7.
   E.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the B-1 District
including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas, building
coverage, and building height are listed in Table 5.6, and illustrated below.
   F.   Landscaping Requirements: Landscape requirements can be found in
chapter 8.
Table 5.6 - B-1 Neighborhood Shopping District
Table 5.6 - B-1 Neighborhood Shopping District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)       20,000
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)          100
Minimum Lot Depth (ft.)          150
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.) 30
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)          10 – Interior
                                 30 – Exterior
Minimum Rear Yard (ft.)          20
Maximum Building Coverage        50%
Maximum Building Height          35 ft.
Maximum FAR                      0.25 or 0.5
Minimum District Size:           2 Acres
 
Figure 5.6: B-1 Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3195.png]
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-5-7: B-2 COMMUNITY SHOPPING DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The B-2 Community Shopping District supports commercial
centers that provide for a wide range of businesses for the community and
surrounding area. Such centers and individual users may be of a larger scale
than found in the B-1 District. The range of retail and service options found
in the B-2 District help to create a more desirable community and support a
strong tax base.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the B-2 District are listed in the
Zoning District Use Table 5.12.
   C.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the B-2 District are listed in the Zoning
District Use Table 5.12.
   D.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the B-2 District are
listed in Chapter 7.
   E.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the B-2 District
including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas, building
coverage, and building height are listed in Table 5.7, and illustrated below.
   F.   Landscaping Requirements: Landscape requirements can be found in
chapter 8.
Table 5.7 - B-2 Community Shopping District
Table 5.7 - B-2 Community Shopping District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)       20,000
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)          100
Minimum Lot Depth (ft.)          150
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.) 30
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)          20 – Interior
                                 30 – Exterior
Minimum Rear Yard (ft.)          20
Maximum Building Coverage        50%
Maximum Building Height          35 ft.
Maximum FAR                      0.25 or 0.5
Minimum District Size:           5 Acres
 
Figure 5.7: B-2 Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3193.png]
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-5-8: B-3 HIGHWAY AND SERVICE BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The B-3 Highway and Service Business District provides
locations for business that may be larger and/ or potentially more impactful to
adjacent land uses. The District accommodates a range of goods and services
that are typically used by consumers for a specific, rather than daily use.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the B-3 District are listed in the
Zoning District Use Table 5.12.
   C.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the B-3 District are listed in the Zoning
District Use Table 5.12.
   D.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the B-3 District are
listed in Chapter 7.
   E.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the B-3 District
including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas, building
coverage, and building height are listed in Table 5.8, and illustrated below.
   F.   Landscaping Requirements: Landscape requirements can be found in
chapter 8.
Table 5.8 - B-3 Highway and Service Business District
Table 5.8 - B-3 Highway and Service Business District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)       20,000
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)          100
Minimum Lot Depth (ft.)          150
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.) 30
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)          30 – Interior
                                 30 – Exterior
Minimum Rear Yard (ft)           20
Maximum Building Coverage        50%
Maximum Building Height          35’
Maximum FAR                      Varies
 
Figure 5.8: B-3 Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3191.png]
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-5-9: RBC REGIONAL BUSINESS CENTER DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The RBC Regional Business Center District was established to
facilitate high quality business park development for industrial, logistic and
manufacturing uses. This District incorporated flexible and unique bulk and
development standards to apply best practices for development of the area. It
is the Village’s policy to not zone additional areas as RBC, but to maintain
the district to support new development, redevelopment, and existing operations
in the area.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the RBC District are listed in the
Zoning District Use Table 5.12.
   C.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the RBC District are listed in the Zoning
District Use Table 5.12.
   D.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the RBC District are
listed in Chapter 7 and in subsection 9-5-9.G.
   E.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the RBC District
vary based on the location and use of property, and are specified in the
subsections that follow.
   F.   Landscaping Requirements: Landscape requirements can be found in
chapter 8.
Table 5.9 - RBC Regional and Business Center District
Table 5.9 - RBC Regional and Business Center District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)       Varies
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)          150’
Minimum Lot Depth (ft.)          200’
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.) Varies
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)          Varies
Minimum Rear Yard (ft)           Varies
Maximum Building Coverage        Varies
Maximum Building Height          Varies
Maximum FAR                      Varies
 
Figure 5.9: RBC Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3189.png]
   G.   Additional RBC Bulk Regulations:
      1.   Minimum District Size: An RBC zoning district shall consist of one
or more contiguous tracts of land totaling a minimum of three hundred twenty
(320) acres and which also shall have frontage on an interstate highway
(properties separated by intervening public right of way, public utilities or
railroad rights of way shall be considered contiguous).
      2.   For the purposes of the RBC District, all Site Development Area
(SDA) shall be considered as a Zoning Lot, as defined in this Chapter. In the
RBC when any SDA established prior to the adoption of this Chapter has more
than one (1) principal building that zoning lot shall be allowed to continue
having multiple principal structures.
      3.   Minimum Zoning Lot Sizes for Permitted or Special Uses: Minimum
Zoning Lot sizes for uses in the RBC shall be as noted in this subsection. When
two (2) or more permitted uses are combined on a single Zoning Lot, the largest
area required for any one such permitted use shall be the minimum area for the
combined permitted uses.
         a.   Corporate, business and professional offices: One (1) acre
(forty-three thousand five hundred and sixty (43,560) square feet).
         b.   Hotels and motels: Three (3) acres.
         c.   Retail uses and restaurants in buildings primarily occupied by
such uses: Five (5) acres.
         d.   All other uses: One acre.
      4.   Minimum Zoning Lot width for all uses: One hundred fifty feet
(150').
      5.   Minimum Zoning Lot depth for all uses: Two hundred feet (200').
      6.   Minimum building setbacks:
         a.   From interstate highway and tollway right of way boundaries: A
minimum fifty feet (50') plus one foot (1') for each foot of building height in
excess of fifty feet (50') up to a maximum required setback of one hundred feet
(100') for all buildings.
         b.   From all other road right of way boundaries: A minimum of thirty-
five feet (35') plus one foot (1') for each foot of building height in excess
of fifty feet (50') up to a maximum required setback of seventy-five feet (75')
for all buildings.
         c.   Setbacks for specific uses:
            (1)   Office, hotel and motel buildings: A minimum of thirty feet
(30').
            (2)   Freestanding retail and restaurant buildings: A minimum of
twenty feet (20').
            (3)   All other buildings: A minimum of twenty feet (20'), except
no building setback is required adjacent to railroad rights of way.
         d.   From all residential zoning district boundaries: Fifty feet (50')
plus one foot (1') for each foot of building height in excess of thirty-five
feet (35') up to a maximum required setback of one hundred twenty-five feet
(125') for all buildings.
      7.   Building separations within RBC Zoning Lots having multiple
principal structures:
         a.   Office, hotel and motel buildings: Forty feet (40') plus one foot
(1') for each three feet (3') in height in excess of thirty-five feet (35') up
to a maximum of sixty feet (60').    
         b.   All other buildings: Thirty feet (30').
         c.   Structures connected by an enclosed walkway shall be considered
to be a single building.
         d.   Building separation standards in this subsection 7 shall not
apply to accessory parking structures.
      8.   Minimum landscaped setbacks for all parking spaces, loading spaces
and drive aisles:
         a.   From interstate highway and tollway right of way: Thirty feet
(30').
         b.   From all other road rights of way: Twenty feet (20').
         c.   From all other zoning lot boundary lines: Ten feet (10').
         d.   From abutting residential lot lines: Thirty feet (30').
      9.   Maximum Building Coverage of RBC Zoning Lots: When an RBC Zoning Lot
contains two (2) or more principal buildings, the maximum coverage permitted
for any one (1) building shall be the greater of the two (2) for all buildings
within that RBC Zoning Lot.
         a.   Office, hotel and motel buildings: Forty percent (40%); eighty
percent (80%) with accessory parking structure.
         b.   Freestanding retail and restaurant buildings: Thirty-five percent
(35%).
         c.   All other buildings: Sixty percent (60%).
      10.   Maximum Building Height:
         a.   Office, Hotel and Motel Buildings: Three hundred feet (300’) or
twenty-five (25) stories, whichever is greater.
         b.   Freestanding Retail and Restaurant Buildings:
            (1)   Buildings up to one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of
gross floor area shall be no taller than fifty feet (50'). However, up to ten
percent (10%) of gross floor area may be located in a portion of the structure
having a height up to one hundred feet (100');
            (2)   Buildings greater than one hundred thousand (100,000) square
feet of gross floor area shall be no taller than fifty feet (50'). However, up
to twenty-five percent (25%) of gross floor area may be located in a portion of
the structure having a height up to one hundred feet (100').
         c.   All Other Buildings: Seventy-five feet (75').
      11.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio (FAR) Within an RBC Zoning Lot: 0.6;
provided, that:
         a.   The FAR within an RBC Zoning Lot may be increased to one and a
half (1.5) if abutting property is designated as being applied to the FAR
calculation (as defined in this Code) for that RBC Zoning Lot. Such abutting
property:
            (1)   Shall be reserved by recorded covenant as permanent open
space;
            (2)   May be within another RBC Zoning Lot;
            (3)   May be improved with the landscaping, ponds, storm water
management facilities, pipelines, signage and ground surface parking areas; and
            (4)   May not include buildings or parking structures.
         b.   Any building permit application for a structure with an FAR
exceeding 1.0 shall be accompanied by a traffic impact study. Such study shall
be prepared by a licensed engineer and evidence that traffic generated by all
developments within that RBC Zoning Lot can be accommodated by the existing
nearby roadway network without adversely impacting other properties in the
area, or that such impact can be offset by roadway network improvements
anticipated or to be provided by the property applicant.
      12.   Setbacks for Adult Business Uses Located in the RBC:
         a.   No adult business use shall be operated:
            (1)   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of the property line of
another adult business use;
            (2)   Within seven hundred fifty feet (750') of any property in a
R-1, R-2, R-3, A-1, or A-2 zoning district;
            (3)   Within seven hundred fifty feet (750') of any dwelling unit;
            (4)   Within seven hundred fifty feet (750') of a zoned residential
district lying within another municipality or within unincorporated portions of
any county;
            (5)   Within seven hundred fifty feet (750') of any educational
institution that serves minors;
            (6)   Within seven hundred fifty feet (750') of any daycare center;
cemetery; public park; forest preserve; public library; or place of religious
worship.
         b.   No adult business use may be located in the same building or
structure, or on the same lot as any other adult business use.
         c.   The distances provided for in this subsection 12 shall be
measured by following a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures, from a point on the property line of the lot or RBC Zoning Lot upon
which the proposed adult business use is to be located that is nearest to the
land use district boundary line, or property line of the lot or RBC Zoning Lot,
from which the proposed use is to be separated.
   H.   Additional Development Standards in the RBC District:
      1.   Retail Buildings:
         a.   Approval: Any building proposed to be occupied primarily by
retail and/or restaurant uses shall be:
            (1)   Reviewed and approved by majority vote of the Mayor and Board
of Trustees prior to submittal of a building permit plan.
            (2)   In an RBC Zoning Lot of not less than five (5) acres.
            (3)   Shall include a site plan for the entire RBC Zoning Lot in
which the building is located, a building elevation, building plan, preliminary
engineering plan and a landscape plan.
            (4)   Be reviewed and approved by the Mayor and Board of Trustees
within thirty-five (35) calendar days of submittal of the required plans to the
Zoning Officer. If no action is taken by the Mayor and Board of Trustees within
that period, the plans shall be deemed approved.
         b.   Facades: The facades of all buildings proposed to be occupied
primarily by retail and/or restaurant uses shall be approved by the Zoning
Officer upon finding that such building facades primarily consist of brick and
glass.
         c.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks adjacent to the fronts of freestanding,
multi-tenant retail and restaurant buildings shall be at least twelve feet
(12') wide for buildings with up to fifty thousand (50,000) gross square feet
of floor area and at least twenty feet (20') wide for buildings greater than
fifty thousand (50,000) gross square feet of floor area; except, that such
sidewalks may be twelve feet (12') wide in areas not directly accessed by
doors. Planters with landscape material, bicycle racks, benches and waste
receptacles may be placed on such sidewalks.
      2.   Documents Required for Building Permit: Each application for a
building permit for a building shall be accompanied by the following documents
in addition to those otherwise required by the Village Code:
         a.   Site plan identifying and depicting all buildings, parking,
loading space, driveway, landscape and storm water management facilities.
         b.   Site plan identifying and depicting any areas that will be used
for storm water management and required landscaping.
         c.   Plans depicting all elevations of buildings principally occupied
by retail and/or restaurant uses.
         d.   Landscape plan for the entire property.
         e.   Legal descriptions and proposed easement (or covenant documents)
for storm water management areas within an RBC Zoning Lot having two (2) or
more buildings shall be required for:
            (1)   Required storm water management areas located outside the RBC
Zoning Lot;
            (2)   Required landscape areas located outside the RBC Zoning Lot;
and
            (3)   Permanent open space outside the RBC Zoning Lot for FAR
purposes.
            (4)   In addition, all such easements and covenants shall be
recorded prior to building permit issuance and shall be enforceable by the
Village.
      3.   Review of Building Permit Applications and Documents: Applications
and accompanying documents for building permits for buildings to be constructed
in the RBC, other than buildings primarily occupied by retail and/or restaurant
uses, shall not be reviewed by the Mayor and Board of Trustees or Plan
Commission.
   I.   Additional Parking Regulations and Requirements in the RBC District:
      1.   In the RBC zoning district parking spaces are permitted in all
required building setback areas in conformance with requirements set forth in
subsections 9-6E-4H (RBC Minimum parking space, loading space and aisle
landscaped setbacks). (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
9-5-10: ORI: OFFICE, RESEARCH, AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The ORI District is primarily intended to provide locations
for large format facilities in a business park environment. Uses permitted in
the district generally include logistics, distribution, light manufacturing,
and assembly facilities. Uses found in office style structures are also
appropriate for the District, as are other supporting or accessory commercial
activities. The Village’s access to interstates and major roadways that attract
users commonly in this District.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the ORI District are listed in the
Zoning District Use Table 5.12.
   C.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the ORI District are listed in the Zoning
District Use Table 5.12.
   D.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the ORI District are
listed in Chapter 7 and in subsection 9-5-10.H.
   E.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the ORI District
vary based on the location and use of property, and are specified in the
subsections that follow.
   F.   Landscaping Requirements: Landscape requirements can be found in
chapter 8.
Table 5.10 - ORI Office, Research, and Light Industrial District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)       2 acres
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)          175’
Minimum Lot Depth (ft.)          250’
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.) Varies
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)          Varies
Minimum Rear Yard (ft)           Varies
Maximum Building Coverage        50%
Maximum Building Height          40’ (Except Hotels and Offices)
Maximum FAR                      0.6
 
Figure 5.10: ORI Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3187.png]
   G.   Additional ORI Bulk Regulations:
      1.   Minimum District Size: Five (5) acres. (Note: Any ORI district area
may contain more than one (1) ORI Zoning Lot.)
      2.   For the purposes of the ORI District, all Site Development Area
(SDA) shall be considered as a Zoning Lot, as defined in this Chapter. In the
ORI when any SDA established prior to the adoption of this Chapter has more
than one (1) principal building that zoning lot shall be allowed to continue
having multiple principal structures.
      3.   Minimum Zoning Lot Sizes for Permitted or Special Uses: Minimum
Zoning Lot sizes for uses in the ORI shall be as noted in this subsection. When
two (2) or more permitted uses are combined on a single ORI Zoning Lot, the
largest area required for any one such permitted use shall be the minimum area
for the combined permitted uses.
      4.   Minimum Zoning Lot Width for All Uses: One hundred seventy-five feet
(175').
      5.   Minimum Zoning Lot Depth for All Uses: Two hundred fifty feet
(250').
      6.   Minimum Gross Floor Area of a Principal Building: Fifteen thousand
(15,000) square feet.
      7.   Minimum Building Setbacks:
         a.   From interstate highway and tollway right of way boundaries: A
minimum of fifty feet (50') plus two feet (2') for each one foot (1') of
building height in excess of thirty-five feet (35').
         b.   From arterial streets: A minimum of thirty-five feet (35') plus
two feet (2') for each one foot (1') of building height in excess of thirty-
five feet (35').
         c.   From collector roads and local roads: A minimum of thirty-five
feet (35') plus two feet (2') for each one foot (1') of building height in
excess of thirty-five feet (35').
         d.   From all other ORI Zoning Lot lines: A minimum of thirty feet
(30'), except no building setback is required adjacent to railroad rights of
way.
         e.   From all residential zoning district boundaries: Thirty feet
(30') plus two feet (2') for each one foot (1') of building height in excess of
thirty-five feet (35'). However, adjacent to utility rights of way a setback of
twenty feet (20') plus two feet (2') for each one foot (1') of building height
in excess of thirty-five feet (35') is required.
      8.   Building Separations Within ORI Zoning Lots having multiple
principal structures:
         a.   Thirty feet (30') plus one foot (1') for each two feet (2') of
height in excess of thirty-five feet (35'). The height of the tallest building
shall determine the separation distance, where necessary.
         b.   Structures connected by an enclosed walkway shall be considered
to be a single building.
         c.   Building separation standards in this subsection 8. shall not
apply to accessory parking structures.
      9.   Minimum Landscaped Setbacks for Off Street Parking Areas:
         a.   From interstate highway and tollway right of way boundaries: A
minimum of thirty feet (30').
         b.   From arterial streets: A minimum of twenty-five feet (25').
         c.   From collector roads and local roads: A minimum of twenty feet
(20').
         d.   From all other ORI Zoning Lot lines of property: Ten feet (10').
         e.   From abutting residential uses: A minimum of twenty feet (20').
In addition, all loading spaces shall be located not less than thirty-eight
feet (38') from residential uses.
         f.   Landscaped setbacks as required by this subsection shall be as
required in Chapter 8: Landscaping and Screening.
      10.   Maximum Building Height:
         a.   Hotels and office buildings (including allowable ancillary uses
and commercial uses) having a gross floor area of not less than one hundred
seventy-five thousand (175,000) square feet: Eighty feet (80').
         b.   All other hotels and office buildings (including allowable
ancillary uses and commercial uses): Sixty feet (60').
         c.   All other buildings: Forty feet (40').
      11.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio (FAR) Within an ORI Zoning Lot: 0.6.
   H.   ORI Bulk Plan Submission Requirements: Each application for a building
permit for a building within an ORI Zoning Lot shall be accompanied by the
following documents in addition to those otherwise required by the Village
Code:
      1.   Site plan of the ORI Zoning Lot identifying and depicting all
buildings, parking, loading space, driveway, landscape, and stormwater
management facilities within the ORI Zoning Lot.
      2.   Site plan identifying and depicting any areas within the ORI Zoning
Lot which will be used for stormwater management and required landscaping for
the ORI Zoning Lot.
      3.   Drawings depicting all elevations of buildings principally occupied
by retail and restaurant uses.
      4.   Landscape plan for the entire ORI Zoning Lot.
      5.   Legal description and proposed easement (covenant documents) for
stormwater management areas within an ORI Zoning Lot having two (2) or more
buildings shall be required for:
         a.   Stormwater management areas located outside the ORI Zoning Lot;
         b.   Required landscape areas located outside the ORI Zoning Lot; and
         c.   Permanent open space outside the ORI Zoning Lot for FAR purposes.
         d.   In addition, all such easements and covenants shall be recorded
prior to building permit issuance and shall be enforceable by the Village.
   I.   Additional Parking Regulations and Requirements in the ORI District:
      1.   Location:
         a.   In the ORI zoning district parking spaces are permitted in all
required building setback areas in conformance with requirements set forth in
subsections 9-5-10 F.7a-e (ORI Minimum Building Setbacks). (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-
2024)
9-5-11: M-1 MANUFACTURING DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The M-1 Manufacturing District intends to support the diverse
economy of the Village of Woodridge through the creation of industrial and
assembly spaces. This District is generally located away from or is buffered
from residential areas in order to mitigate effects of noise, traffic, and
odors. This District aims to capitalize on the high level of connectivity of
the Village to support diverse industrial, light industrial, logistic, and
manufacturing uses.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the M-1 District are listed in the
Zoning District Use Table 5.12.
   C.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the M-1 District are listed in the Zoning
District Use Table 5.12.
   D.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the M-1 District are
listed in Chapter 7.
   E.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the M-1 District
including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas, building
coverage, and building height are listed in Table 5.11, and illustrated below.
Table 5.11 - M-1 Manufacturing District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)       43,560
Minimum Lot Width (ft.)          150
Minimum Lot Depth (ft.)          200
Minimum Front Yard Setback (ft.) 40
Minimum Side Yard (ft.)          20 – Interior
                                40 – Exterior
Minimum Rear Yard (ft)           20
Maximum Building Coverage        50%
Maximum Building Height          40 ft.
Maximum FAR                      0.6
 
Figure 5.11: M-1 Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3185.png]
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
ALLOWED USES
9-5-12: ALLOWED USES:
   A.   Permitted and Special Uses:
      1.   Principal uses are allowed in zoning districts in accordance with
table 5.12.
      2.   Uses identified with a "P" are permitted as of right in the subject
zoning district.
      3.   Uses identified with an "S" require approval of a Special Use permit
to be allowed in the subject zoning district.
   B.   Uses not Expressly Allowed:
      1.   If neither a "P" or an "S" is listed in table 5.12, the use is not
permitted in the subject zoning district, except that the zoning officer may
determine a use to be reasonably compatible and similar with other permitted or
special uses as described in 9.6.5.
   C.   Accessory Uses:
      1.   Allowed accessory uses, such as home occupations, are not identified
in Table 5-1. Customary accessory uses are permitted in conjunction with
allowed principal uses, subject to compliance with all applicable accessory use
regulations.
Table 5.12 Permitted and Special Land Uses
Woodridge Zoning Ordinance - Use Table
 R-1         R-2         R-3         A-1         A-2         B-1          B-2       B-3      RBC      ORI        M-1
                                                                                    Highway  Regional Office,
 Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Neighborhood Community and      Business Research   MFG
 District    District    District    District    District    Shopping     Shopping  Service  Center   And Light  District
                                                             District     District  Business District Industrial
                                                                                    District          District
Table 5.12 Permitted and Special Land Uses
Woodridge Zoning Ordinance - Use Table
               R-1         R-2         R-3         A-1         A-2         B-1          B-2       B-3      RBC      ORI        M-1
                                                                                                  Highway  Regional Office,
               Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Neighborhood Community and      Business Research   MFG
               District    District    District    District    District    Shopping     Shopping  Service  Center   And Light  District
                                                                           District     District  Business District Industrial
                                                                                                  District          District
Residential Uses
Child Care     P           P           P
Home
Community
Residence- IL  P           P           P           P           P
State Licensed
Multiple-Unit                                      P           P
Dwellings
Single-Unit
Attached                                           P
dwellings
Single-Unit
Detached       P           P           P
dwellings
Skilled Care                                       S           S                        S         S
Facility
Commercial and Service Uses
Animal                                                                     S            S         S        S        S
Hospitals
Automobile and                                                                                    S        P        S
Truck Rentals
Automobile                                                                                                 S                   S
Body Shop
Automobile                                                                                        S        S                   S
Repair
Automobile                                                                              S         P        P
Sales (New)
Automobile                                                                              S         S        S
Sales (Used)
Automobile
Service                                                                                           S        S
Stations
Banks and
Financial                                                                  S            P                  P
Institutions
Banquet Halls                                                                           S         S        P
Beer or Wine                                                               S            S
Bar
Boat Sales &                                                                                      S        P
Repair
Brew Pub                                                                   P            P                  P
Business and
Professional                                                               P            P                  P        P          P
Offices
Business                                                                                P                  P        P          P
Services
Cannabis                                                                   S            S         S
Dispensary
Car and Truck                                                                                     S        S                   S
Washes
Catering                                                                                S         P        P
Establishments
Childcare                                                                  S            S         S
Centers
Contractor                                                                                        S        P        S          P
Services
Currency                                                                   P            P                  P
Exchanges
Drive Through                                                              S            S         S        P
Facilities
Equipment                                                                                         S        S        S          P
Rental
Funeral Homes                                                                           S         S
Health Club                                                                             S         S        P
(Large)
Health Club                                                                P            P         S        P
(small)
Hotels                                                                                  S         P        P        S
Hotels,                                                                                 S         S        S        S
Extended Stay
Retail Sales                                                               P            P         P        P
Kennel                                                                                            S                 S
Medical                                                                    P            P                  P        P
Offices
Motels                                                                                  S         S        S        S
Motor Vehicle                                                                                                                  S
Storage
Parking Garage                                                                                             P
Personal                                                                   P            P                  P
Service
Pet Care                                                                   S            S         S                 S
Services
Restaurants                                                                P            P         P        P
Tattoo Parlors                                                                          S         S
Tobacco                                                                    P            P
Retailers
Truck Repair                                                                                               S                   S
and Service
Industrial Uses
Cannabis                                                                                                   S        S          S
Production
Cargo
Container                                                                                                                      S
Facilities
Cartage and
Express                                                                                                                        S
Facilities
Computer and
Data                                                                                                       P        P
Processing
Facilities
Heliports                                                                                                  P        S          S
Laboratory and
Testing                                                                                                    P        P
Facilities
Manufacturing                                                                                              P        P          P
Micro
(brewery,                                                                                                           S          P
winery, or
distillery)
Recycling                                                                                                  P                   S
Centers
Research and
Development                                                                                                P        P          P
Facility
Self-Storage                                                                                               P        S          S
Warehouse                                                                                                  P        P          P
Recreational Uses
Country Clubs  S
Indoor
Recreational                                                                            S         S        P        S
Facilities
Outdoor
Recreation     S                                                           S            S         S                 S
Facilities
(private)
Outdoor
Recreation     P           P           P                                                                   P        S
Facilities
(public)
Government/Cultural/Public Uses
Colleges and
Universities                                                                                      S        P        S
(Public and
private)
Convention                                                                                                 S
Centers
Cultural       S           S           S           S           S           S            S         S        S        S          S
Facilities
Government
Buildings and  S           S           S           S           S           S            S         S        P        S          S
Facilities
Places of      P           P           P           P           P           S            S         S        S
Worship
Schools -
Public and
Private
(Elementary,   S           S           S           S           S                                                    S
Junior High
and Senior
High)
Utility/Infrastructure Uses
Personal
Wireless       S           S           S           S           S           S            S         S        S        S          S
Communicatio n
Facilities
Public Service
and Utility in
Accordance     P           P           P           P           P           P            P         P        P        P          P
with Section
9-3-2.1.B
Public Service
and Utility
not in         S           S           S           S           S           S            S         S        S        S          S
Accordance
with Section
9-3-2.1.B
Railroad Yards
and Switching                                                                                              P        S          S
Facilities
Temporary Uses
Temporary
Contractor and P           P           P           P           P           P            P         P        P        P          P
Construction
Trailers
Temporary
Seasonal Sales                                                             P            P         P        P        P
(Outdoor)
Miscellaneous Uses
Adult Business                                                                                             P
Uses
Auditoriums                                                                                                P        P
Business and
Technical                                                                               S         P        P        S          S
Schools
Cemetery       S
Food Pantries                                                                                     S                            P
Health
treatment                                                                               S                  P        S
centers
Hospitals                                                                               S         S        P        S
Planned Unit   S           S           S           S           S           S            S         S        S        S          S
Development
Training                                                                   P            P                  P
Studio
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024; amd. Ord. 2025-3, 1-16-2025)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-6-1: Administrative Officials And Bodies
9-6-2: Planning Documents And Procedures
9-6-3: Certificates Of Zoning Compliance And Certificates Of Occupancy
9-6-4: Interpretations, Appeals, And Variations
9-6-5: Amendments, Special Uses, And Planned Unit Developments
9-6-6: Site Plan Review
9-6-7: Enforcement And Penalties
9-6-1: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS AND BODIES:
   A.   The administration of this title is hereby vested in the following:
      1.   The Zoning Officer;
      2.   The Plan Commission; and
      3.   The Village Board.
   B.   Zoning Officer.
      1.   General powers. The Zoning Officer is charged with the
administration and enforcement of this title. In addition to the jurisdiction,
authority and duties conferred on the Zoning Officer by other provisions of
state statutes and village codes and ordinances, the Zoning Officer has all
powers necessary for the administration and enforcement of this title and, in
particular, has the jurisdiction, authority and duties in this section.
      2.   Rules; regulations; application forms. The Zoning Officer,
consistent with the express standards, purposes and intent of this title,
promulgate, may adopt and issue procedural rules, regulations and forms as are
in the Zoning Officer’s opinion necessary for the effective administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this title.
      3.   Staff assistance to the Plan Commission. The Zoning Officer will
make staff and consulting assistance available to the Plan Commission, and the
Zoning Officer will in that capacity:
         a.   Attend the meetings of the Plan Commission;
         b.   Inform the Plan Commission of relevant facts and information at
the Zoning Officer’s disposal with respect to any matter brought before the
Plan Commission;
         c.   Assist the Plan Commission by performing research and making
recommendations on matters brought before the Plan Commission; and
         d.   Perform such other duties as may be assigned to the Zoning
Officer by this title and by the direction of the Village Administrator.
      4.   Records. The Zoning Officer will, subject to village record
retention policies, maintain:
         a.   Permanent and current records of this title, including all maps;
amendments; special use permits; planned development and site plan approvals
and denials; interpretations; and decisions rendered by the Plan Commission,
the village attorney and the Zoning Officer, together with relevant background
files and materials and final disposition of the Village Board; and
         b.   A current file of all certificates of zoning compliance, all
certificates of occupancy and notices of violations, terminations,
discontinuance or removal, issued by or entrusted to Zoning Officer’s office,
for such times necessary to ensure continuous compliance with the provisions of
this title.
      5.   Zoning text; zoning map.
         a.   The Zoning Officer will prepare and have available for public
sale on or before March of each year:
            (1)   The compiled text of this title in book or pamphlet form,
including all amendments thereto through the preceding December 31; and
            (2)   The official zoning map, showing the zoning districts,
divisions and classifications in effect on the preceding December 31.
         b.   The Zoning Officer will, at all other times, maintain, and have
available for reproduction, at least one up-to-date copy of both the text of
this title and the zoning map, showing all amendments through the most recent
meeting of a Village Board for which official minutes have been approved.
      6.   Applications. Receipt, processing, referral to interested parties
and agencies.
   The Zoning Officer will receive all applications required to be filed
pursuant to this title and determine when any application is complete. Upon
receipt of any such application, the Zoning Officer will see to its processing,
including its referral to and retrieval from each official department, Board or
commission of the village, or other government, with any interest or duty with
respect to such application. Unless otherwise provided, the Zoning Officer may
waive any application requirements that require the submission of supporting
information where the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Officer that the information required is not relevant to or necessary for the
determination of the application submitted.
      7.   Investigation of applications. Whenever the Plan Commission or the
Village Board request by general rule or specific direction, the Zoning Officer
will conduct or cause to be conducted such surveys, investigations and field
studies, and will prepare or cause to be prepared such reports, maps,
photographs, charts and exhibits, as will be necessary and appropriate to the
processing of any application filed pursuant to this title.
      8.   Certificates of zoning compliance and certificates of occupancy.
Pursuant to the provisions of subsections
9-6-3  A. and
9-6-3  B. of this chapter, the Zoning Officer will review all applications for
certificates of zoning compliance and certificates of occupancy and approve or
disapprove such applications and issue or refuse to issue such certificates
based on compliance or noncompliance with the provisions of this title.
      9.   Interpretations. Pursuant to the provisions of subsection
9-6-4  A. of this chapter, the Zoning Officer will issue written
interpretations of the meaning and applicability of specific provisions of this
title. Any interpretation of this title that may be rendered by the Zoning
Officer or the Plan Commission will be kept on file with the Zoning Officer and
will be a public record of the village.
      10.   Approval of site plans. Pursuant to the provisions of section
9-6-6  of this chapter, the Zoning Officer will have authority to review and
approve or deny applications for site plan approval in the cases specified in
subsection
9-6-6  C.1.
      11.   Planned development and site plan modifications. Pursuant to the
provisions of subsections
9-6-5  C.10 and
9-6-6  E.1.c of this chapter, the Zoning Officer will have authority to permit
amendments to final plans for planned developments and to site plans.
      12.   Extensions of time.
         a.   The Zoning Officer may, upon written request, for good cause
shown and without any notice or hearing, grant extensions of any time limit
imposed on an applicant or permittee by this title unless an ordinance or
resolution expressly provides otherwise. The total period of time granted by
such extension or extensions will not exceed the length of the original period
or ninety (90) days, whichever is less.
         b.   The Village Board may, upon written request, for good cause
shown, and without any notice or hearing, grant extensions of any time limited
imposed on an applicant or permittee by this title provided an ordinance or
resolution, as appropriate, is duly adopted by a majority vote of the trustees.
The total period of time granted by such extension or extensions will be
specifically stated in the ordinance or resolution.
      13.   Inspection and enforcement. In furtherance of the enforcement of
this title, the Zoning Officer will undertake regular and continuing programs
of inspection of work approved and underway and of existing structures and uses
as may be feasible and proper; will undertake additional inspections as may be
necessary to the performance of their duties under this title; will receive
from any person complaints alleging, with particularity, a violation of this
title; and when appropriate will cause investigations and inspections as may be
warranted under the circumstances. Upon finding the existence of any violation
of this title, the Zoning Officer will take or direct all actions necessary or
appropriate to penalize and abate such violation under section 9-6-7 of this
chapter and other applicable laws.
      14.   Reports. The Zoning Officer will, from time to time, prepare and
submit a report to the Village Board and the Plan Commission concerning the
administration of the land use and development regulations of the village,
setting forth information and statistical data as may be of interest and value
in advancing and furthering the goals and purposes of such regulations and
setting forth the Zoning Officer’s recommendations for the improvement of these
regulations and their administration.
   C.   Plan Commission.
      1.   Established. The Plan Commission established by Title 2, Chapter 2
of the Woodridge Village Code, as amended, is the zoning Board of appeals and
Plan Commission referred to in this title. The provisions of this title with
respect to the Plan Commission are supplementary to the provisions of the
Woodridge Village Code, as amended. Reference should be made to the Woodridge
Village Code for a complete description of the membership, term of office and
rules of procedure of the Plan Commission. Any distinctions made in this title
between the Zoning Board of Appeals and Plan Commission are established for the
purposes of defining the authority of the Plan Commission and in what capacity
it is operating on a particular form of relief provided under this title.
      2.   Plan Commission authority and procedures.
         a.   The Plan Commission is vested with the following powers and
duties:
            (1)   To hear, consider, and recommend to the Village Board matters
dealing with amendments to this title;
            (2)   To hear, consider, and recommend to the Village Board matters
dealing with the granting of special uses;
            (3)   To hear, consider, and recommend to the Village Board
variances to this title, including those that may be requested in connection
with special uses, rezoning, subdivisions, annexation requests, or other zoning
approval requests;
            (4)   To hear, consider, and recommend to the Village Board matters
dealing with the granting of planned developments;
            (5)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board a new
comprehensive land use plan for the present and future development or
redevelopment of the village and contiguous unincorporated territory within one
and one-half miles of the corporate limits of the village and not located in
any other municipality;
            (6)   To designate, subject to final consideration, evaluation and
approval of the Village Board, land suitable for annexation to the village and
the recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation;
            (7)   To recommend to the Village Board, from time to time, such
changes in the comprehensive land use plan or any part thereof, as may be
deemed necessary;
            (8)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board, from time to
time, plans or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of the
comprehensive land use plan's goals and objectives;
            (9)   To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the
direction of projects for improvements embraced within the comprehensive land
use plan, or parts thereof, to further the making of such improvements and
generally to promote the realization of the comprehensive land use plan;
            (10)   To consider and recommend to the Village Board all matters
which it is required to act upon under the terms of this chapter or under the
law;
            (11)   To recommend, subject to final consideration, evaluation and
approval by the Village Board, reasonable standards of design for subdivisions
and for resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment
with respect to public improvements;
            (12)   To recommend, subject to final consideration, evaluation and
approval by the Village Board, reasonable standards governing the location,
width, course and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for
public service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
storm water drainage, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection;
            (13)   To study and make recommendations regarding matters dealing
with the planning of the community;
            (14)   To direct and review, from time to time, studies of the
provisions of this chapter, and to make recommendations to the Village Board
regarding any changes to the ordinance;
            (15)   To cooperate with the municipal or regional planning
commissions and other agencies or groups to further local planning initiatives
and to assure harmonious and integrated planning for the area; and
            (16)   To hear, consider and make final determinations on appeals
from decisions and interpretations under this title by the Zoning Officer.
         b.   Necessary vote. The concurring vote of at least four (4) of the
currently appointed members will be necessary to take any action or adopt any
motion to recommend approval of any matter or application. Any lesser vote on
any such motion, even if a majority of those voting, will be considered a final
decision to recommend denial of such matter or application.
         c.   Record. The transcript of testimony, if any; the minutes of the
secretary; all applications, requests, exhibits and papers filed in any
proceeding before the Plan Commission; and the decision of the Plan Commission
will constitute the record. The Plan Commission may rely on the personal
knowledge of its members, on its inspections of the property and on any reports
available to it; provided, however, that the Plan Commission will make the
particular knowledge, inspection or report a matter of record at the public
hearing and afford every party reasonable time to respond to it.
         d.   Decisions.
            (1)   Every decision of the Plan Commission that is deemed to be a
final decision on a matter will be in writing and include findings of fact;
refer to all the evidence in the record and to the exhibits, plans or
specifications upon which the decision is based; specify the reason or reasons
for the decision; contain a conclusion or statement separate from the findings
of fact setting forth the specific relief granted or denying relief; and
expressly set forth any limitations or conditions imposed on any relief granted
or work or use authorized.
         (2)   The Plan Commission will take no final or binding vote on a
decision unless it first has before it the written decision or resolution;
provided, however, that where special circumstances warrant it, as determined
by the Plan Commission, it may take final action prior to the preparation of
the decision or resolution but before taking such action, first state its
findings and conclusions at a meeting open to the public and will, in addition,
state the special circumstances.
         (3)   Every decision of the Plan Commission that is a recommendation
to the Village Board may be made by written decision, written resolution, or by
written report of the chairperson to the mayor and Village Board in accordance
with the provisions of this subsection.
         (4)   In any case where this code provides that the failure of the
Plan Commission to act within a fixed period is deemed to be a denial of an
application, the failure will, notwithstanding the absence of required findings
and conclusions, be considered to be a decision of the Plan Commission rendered
on the day following the expiration of such fixed period. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-
2024)
9-6-2: PLANNING DOCUMENTS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Official comprehensive plan and other special area or subject plans.
      1.   Authority. The Plan Commission has authority to prepare and
recommend to the Village Board a comprehensive plan including the village and
unincorporated areas surrounding the village and from time to time to prepare
and recommend other special area or subject plans and amendments thereto, any
or all of which the Village Board may adopt as the "The Village of Woodridge
Comprehensive Land Use Plan," all in accordance with the procedures set out in
this section.
      2.   Purpose. The comprehensive plan will be considered an official
statement of the policy of the village with respect to the existing and
developing character of the various areas of the village and its vicinity; the
proper objectives, standards and direction for future maintenance, growth,
development and redevelopment of the village; the means to be employed to
protect existing character or development and to encourage future development
that will be in the best interests of the village; and the actions and programs
to be undertaken by the village with respect to its future maintenance and
development.
      3.   Effect. After the adoption of the comprehensive plan, or a part
thereof, no ordinance, regulation or official map relating to the physical
maintenance, development or redevelopment of the village or any land within it
will be enacted, established, amended or varied and no right-of-way, street,
utility or public structure or land will be authorized, established, developed,
redeveloped or modified in location or extent except in accordance with the
policies, goals, objectives, principles and standards of the comprehensive plan
or relevant part thereof unless the Village Board will first make a specific
finding that the facts and circumstances affecting the particular matter
justify a departure from the plan.
      4.   Procedures.
         a.   Plan development.
            (1)   The Plan Commission, with the assistance of the Zoning
Officer, will exercise the powers and duties delegated to it by this code in
the continuing development and revision of the comprehensive plan. The process
of plan development is necessarily an informal one and not readily adaptable to
rigid procedures, but the Plan Commission and the Zoning Officer, in developing
a plan, will make all reasonable efforts to obtain the views, comments, and
criticisms of interested persons. In addition, the Plan Commission, prior to
making any recommendation for the adoption or amendment of a plan or part
thereof to the Village Board, will set, notice and conduct a public hearing
thereon in accordance with the provisions of subsection
9-6-2  E. of this chapter.
            (2)   The Village Board may, at any time, refer a plan to the Plan
Commission for consideration and recommendation. In the case of such referral,
the Plan Commission will return its recommendation to the Village Board not
later than ninety (90) days following the receipt of the referral. In the event
such recommendation is not so delivered, the Village Board may proceed to
consider the amendment without such recommendation.
            (3)   When satisfied that a plan, or a part thereof, is adequate
for adoption as the comprehensive plan, or a part thereof or an amendment
thereto, the Plan Commission will transmit the plan or part thereof to the
Village Board together with its recommendations for adoption of such plan as
well as any reports or statements deemed necessary to a full consideration of
such plan or part thereof. Such reports or statements may include majority and
minority positions. Such transmission will be made not later than fifteen (15)
days following the close of the public hearing concerning such plan.
         b.   Plan adoption. Upon receiving any recommendation of the Plan
Commission with respect to adoption or amendment of any plan, or a part
thereof, the Village Board may, by ordinance duly enacted, adopt such plan in
whole or in part, with or without amendments; or may refer such plan or any
part thereof back to the Plan Commission for further consideration; or may
reject such plan. The Board will take such action no later than ninety (90)
days following the close of the Plan Commission public hearing on such plan.
The failure of the Board to act within such period will be deemed to be a
rejection of the plan. Upon the adoption of any such plan or part thereof, it
will be designated as the "The Village of Woodridge Comprehensive Land Use
Plan, [year adopted]," and if less than a total comprehensive plan, will carry
a subheading designating its specific contents.
         c.   Plan amendment. The comprehensive plan, or any part thereof, may
be amended at any time in accordance with the provisions of this subsection
9-6-2  A.4.c. Such an amendment may be initiated by the Village Board, the Plan
Commission, the Zoning Officer, or by any owner of property affected by the
provisions of such plan sought to be amended.
            (1)   Amendments initiated by the Village Board, the Plan
Commission, or the Zoning Officer will require no formal application and will
be processed as provided in this subsection, except that the time limits
specified in subsection
9-6-2  A.4. above will not apply.
            (2)   Amendments initiated by the owner of affected property will
be initiated by an application filed pursuant to this subsection
9-6-2  A.4.c. and the specified time limits therein will apply.
         d.   Plan filing and notice of adoption. The ordinance adopting the
comprehensive plan, or any part thereof, will provide that the Zoning Officer
will cause a certified copy thereof to be placed on file in the office of the
village clerk, and will cause a notice evidencing the adoption of such plan, or
part thereof, to be filed with the recorder of deeds of each county with
property affected by the plan.
   B.   Maps.
      1.   Official Map.
         a.   Authority. The Plan Commission will have authority to prepare and
to recommend to the Village Board an official map of the village and the
unincorporated areas surrounding the village and from time to time to prepare
and recommend amendments thereto, all of which the Village Board may adopt as
the “Official Map of the Village of Woodridge.”
         b.   Purpose. The official map is adopted to implement the
comprehensive plan, to assure the adequacy of the public facilities to which it
relates and to secure for the village the authority and benefits provided by
state law in connection with such an official map.
         c.   Procedures. The procedures for the development, adoption,
amendment and filing of the official map will be the same as those provided in
subsection
9-6-2  A.4. of this chapter with respect to the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Zoning Map. The location and boundaries of the districts established
by this title are indicated upon the map entitled, “official zoning map,
Village of Woodridge, Illinois”, as amended from time to time, which, together
with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this title. The official zoning map shall be on file
in the Office of the Village Clerk and shall be the final authority as to the
current zoning status of land and buildings, subject to such authorized
amendments, which may be in effect.
   C.   Applications.
      1.   Place of filing. Unless otherwise provided by this title,
applications for certificates of zoning compliance, certificates of occupancy,
code interpretations, site plan approvals, appeals, variations, amendments,
special use approvals, and planned unit developments will be filed with the
Zoning Officer.
      2.   Forms, Number, Scale. All applications filed pursuant to this title
will be on forms supplied by the Zoning Officer and will be filed in a number
of duplicate paper and electronic copies as the Zoning Officer may designate.
All plans filed as part of any application will be at a scale sufficient to
permit a clear and precise understanding of the contents of said plan and the
proposal being made and, if not electronic, will be folded to a convenient size
for handling and filing in standard, legal size legal drawers.
      3.   Filing Deadlines.
         a.   Applications Requiring Hearings. Applications requiring a public
hearing will not be scheduled for such hearing unless and until such
applications are filed in a complete and proper form and number and containing
all required information.
         b.   Applications Not Requiring Hearing. Applications that do not
require a public hearing will be filed, in a complete and proper form and
number and containing all required information, at least thirty-five (35) days
prior to the time when action on the application is requested. Applications
will be processed on a first-filed, first-processed basis.
         c.   Supplemental Data. Whenever supplemental data in connection with
a previously filed application is required by the Village or offered by the
applicant, it will be submitted at least seven (7) days prior to the date on
which it is to be considered at a hearing or a meeting or acted upon in
connection with such application. The filing of this data will, in the
discretion of the Zoning Officer and of the body hearing the application,
because to delay a requested or scheduled hearing date.
      4.   Fee Established; Lien.
         a.   Every application filed pursuant to this title will be subject to
a non-refundable application and filing fee in the amount established by the
Village Board in the fee schedule set forth in subsection
3-1A-3  of the village code.
         b.   The owner of the property which is the subject of the application
and, if different, the applicant, will be jointly and severally liable for the
payment of the application fee, as well as the actual village application
processing costs. By submitting the application, owner is deemed to have agreed
to pay any fees and processing costs, to consent to the filing, and foreclosure
of a lien on the property to ensure collection of any fee and processing costs,
plus the costs of collection, which has not been paid within thirty (30) days
following the mailing of a written demand for payment to the owner at the
address shown on the application. Any lien filed pursuant to this subsection
may be foreclosed in the manner provided by statute for mortgages or mechanics
liens.
      5.   Condition of All Applications, Approvals and Permits; Time Periods.
         a.   No application filed pursuant to this title will be considered
complete unless and until all fees and deposits due have been paid. Every
approval granted and every permit issued pursuant to this title will, whether
or not expressly so conditioned, be deemed to be conditioned upon payment of
fees as required by subsection
3-1A-3  of the village code and subsection
9-6-2  C.4. of this chapter.
         b.   Any period of non-payment by the applicant will toll any time
period where this title provides that the passage of time without decision or
action will be deemed an approval or a recommendation for approval by the
village. Time periods will otherwise continue to run during any period of non-
payment.
         c.   The failure to fully pay any such fee or deposit, when due, will
be grounds for refusing to process an application and for denying or revoking
any permit or approval sought or issued with respect to the land or development
to which the unpaid fee or deposit relates.
      6.   Minimum Application Data Requirements.
         a.   All Applications. Every application submitted pursuant to this
title will contain at least the following information:
            (1)   The owner’s name, email, telephone number and address and the
owner’s signed consent to the filing of the application.
            (2)   The applicant’s name, email, telephone number and address, if
different than the owner, and their interest in the subject property.
            (3)   The names, addresses, emails and telephone numbers of all
professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with respect to the
application.
            (4)   The name and address and the nature and extent of the
financial interest of any village officer or employee in the owner, the
applicant, or the subject property.
            (5)   The address and legal description of the property.
            (6)   A description or graphic representation of the proposal for
which approval is being sought and of the existing zoning classification, use
and development of the property. The scope and detail of the description will
be appropriate to the subject matter of the application, with special emphasis
on those matters likely to be affected or impacted by the approval being sought
in the application.
            (7)   In the case of any application being filed less than two (2)
years after the denial of an application seeking essentially the same relief,
the statement required by subsection
9-6-2  D.
            (8)   Proof of control or ownership, in the case of site-specific
applications.
         b.   Applications for Certificates of Zoning Compliance. Every
application for a certificate of zoning compliance filed pursuant to subsection
9-6-3  A of this chapter will, in addition to the data and information required
pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  C.6.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   A description or graphic representation of any development or
construction that will occur or any use that will be established or maintained
if the requested relief is granted.
            (2)   A table showing the following, if applicable:
               (a)   The total lot area of the subject property, in acres and
in square feet;
               (b)   The total existing and proposed lot area, expressed in
acres, in square feet and as a percent of the total development area, devoted
to residential uses, by type of structure, commercial uses, office uses,
industrial uses and institutional uses, open space, rights-of-way, streets, and
off-street parking and loading areas; and
            (3)   The existing and proposed:
               (a)   Number of dwelling units, by number of bedrooms and
dwelling unit gross floor area; and
               (b)   Gross and net floor area devoted to residential uses,
commercial uses, office uses, industrial uses, institutional uses and
recreational uses.
            (4)   A table listing all bulk, space and yard requirements, all
parking requirements, and all loading requirements applicable to any proposed
development or construction and showing the compliance of such proposed
development or construction with each such requirement. Where any lack of
compliance is shown, the reason therefore must be stated and an explanation of
the village’s authority, if any, to approve the application despite such lack
of compliance must be set forth.
            (5)   The certificate of a registered architect or civil engineer
licensed by the State of Illinois, or of an owner-designer, that any proposed
use, construction or development complies with all the provisions of this title
and other village ordinances or complies with such provisions except in the
manner and to the extent specifically set forth in said certificate.
         c.   Application for Code Interpretations. Every application for a
code interpretation filed pursuant to subsection
9-6-4  A. of this chapter will, in addition to the data and information
required pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  C.6.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   The specific provision or provisions of this title for which
an interpretation is sought.
            (2)   The facts of the specific situation giving rise to the
request for an interpretation.
            (3)   The precise interpretation claimed by the applicant to be
correct.
            (4)   Where a use interpretation is sought, the use permitted
pursuant to the present zoning classification of the subject property that is
claimed by the applicant to include, or to be most similar to, the proposed
use.
            (5)   Where a use interpretation is sought, documents, statements
and other evidence demonstrating that the proposed use will comply with all use
limitations established for the district in which it is proposed to be located.
         d.   Applications for Appeals. Every application filed for an appeal
pursuant to subsection
9-6-4  B. of this title will, in addition to the data and information required
pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  C.6.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   The specific order, decision or determination of failure to
act from which an appeal is sought.
            (2)   The facts of the specific situation giving rise to the
original order, decision, determination or failure to act and to the appeal
therefrom.
            (3)   The precise relief sought.
            (4)   A statement of the applicant’s position as to alleged errors
in the order, decision, determination or failure to act being appealed and as
to why the relief sought is justified and proper.
         e.   Applications for Variations. Every application for a variation
from the regulations of this title filed pursuant to subsection
9-6-4  C. will, in addition to the data and information required pursuant to
subsection
9-6-2  C.6.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   The specific feature or features of the proposed use,
construction or development that require a variation.
            (2)   The specific provision of this title from which a variation
is sought and the precise variation therefrom being sought.
            (3)   A statement of the characteristics of the subject property
that prevent compliance with the said provisions of this title.
            (4)   A statement of the minimum variation of the provisions of
this title that would be necessary to permit the proposed use, construction or
development.
            (5)   A statement of how the variation sought would satisfy the
standards set forth in subsection
9-6-4  C.6. of this chapter.
            (6)   An accurate, to scale and full-size survey, certified by a
registered land surveyor, showing existing lot lines and dimensions as well as
lot area, all easements, all public and private rights-of-way and all streets
across and adjacent to the subject property.
            (7)   A statement concerning the conformity or lack of conformity
of the approval being requested to the comprehensive plan or the official map.
Where the approval being requested does not conform to the comprehensive plan
or official map, reasons justifying the approval despite such lack of
conformity must be stated.
         f.   Applications for Administrative Variations. Every application for
an administrative variation filed pursuant to subsection
9-6-4  D of this title requesting an administrative variation will, in addition
to the data and information required pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  C.6.a. provide the following information:
            (1)   Plat of survey with legal description.
            (2)   Site plan and architectural renderings, as appropriate.
            (3)   A statement of the characteristics of the subject property
that prevent compliance with the said provisions of this title.
            (4)   A statement of the minimum variation of the provisions of
this title that would be necessary to permit the proposed use, construction or
development.
               (a)   A statement of how the variation sought would satisfy the
standards set forth in subsection
9-6-4  D.5. of this chapter.
               (b)   A statement concerning the conformity or lack of
conformity of the approval being requested to the comprehensive plan or the
official map. Where the approval being requested does not conform to the
comprehensive plan or official map, reasons justifying the approval despite
such lack of conformity must be stated.
               (c)   Notarized letters or petition from all adjoining property
owners stating the following:
                  i.   Name of the applicant seeking the variation.
                  ii.   Legal description and address of the subject property.
                  iii.   Name and address of adjoining property owners.
                  iv.   Statement of variation request.
                  v.   Statement that the adjoining property owner does
understand the request and does not object to the variation request.
         g.   Applications for Comprehensive Plan or Zoning Text Amendments.
Every application for comprehensive plan amendment filed pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  A.4.c or zoning text amendment application filed pursuant to subsection
9-6-5  A. of this chapter will, in addition to the data and information
required pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  C.6.a. provide the following information:
            (1)   The exact wording of the proposed text amendment.
            (2)   A statement of the need and justification for the proposed
text amendment.
            (3)   If applicable, a survey, certified by a registered land
surveyor, showing existing lot lines and dimensions as well as lot area, all
easements, all public and private rights-of-way and all streets across and
adjacent to the subject property.
            (4)   A statement concerning the conformity or lack of conformity
of the approval being requested to the comprehensive plan and official map.
      Where the approval being requested does not conform to the comprehensive
plan or official map, reasons justifying the approval despite such lack of
conformity will be stated.
         h.   Applications for Special Use Permits. Every special use permit
application filed pursuant to subsection
9-6-5  B. of this chapter will, in addition to the data and information
required pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  C.6.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   A written statement of the need for the special use permit.
            (2)   An accurate, to scale and full-size survey, certified by a
registered land surveyor, showing existing lot lines and dimensions as well as
lot area, all easements, all public and private rights-of-way and all streets
across and adjacent to the subject property.
            (3)   A statement concerning the conformity or lack of conformity
of the approval being requested to the comprehensive plan and official map.
Where the approval being requested does not conform to the comprehensive plan
or the official map, reasons justifying the approval despite such lack of
conformity will be stated.
            (4)   An application for site plan approval pursuant to subsection
9-6-5  of this chapter.
         i.   Applications for Official Map or Zoning Map Amendments. Every
application for official map amendment filed pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  A.4. and for zoning map amendment filed pursuant to subsection
9-6-5  A. will, in addition to the data and information required pursuant to
subsection
9-6-2  C.6.a., provide a statement of the need and justification for the
proposed official map or zoning map amendment. The statement will address at
least the following factors:
            (1)   The existing uses and zoning classifications of properties in
the vicinity of the subject property.
            (2)   The trend of development in the vicinity of the subject
property, including changes, if any, in such trend since the subject property
was placed in its present plan designation or zoning classification.
            (3)   The extent to which the value of the subject property is
diminished by the existing plan designation or zoning classification applicable
to it.
            (4)   The extent to which such diminution in value is offset by an
increase in the public health, safety and welfare.
            (5)   The extent, if any, to which the use and enjoyment of
adjacent properties would be affected by the proposed amendment.
            (6)   The extent, if any, to which the value of adjacent properties
would be affected by the proposed amendment.
            (7)   The extent, if any, to which the future orderly development
of adjacent properties would be affected by the proposed amendment.
            (8)   The suitability of the subject property for uses permitted or
permissible under its present plan designation and zoning classification.
            (9)   The availability of adequate ingress to and egress from the
subject property and the extent to which traffic conditions in the immediate
vicinity of the subject property would be affected by the proposed amendment.
            (10)   The availability of adequate utilities and essential public
services to the subject property to accommodate the uses permitted or
permissible under its present plan designation and zoning classification.
            (11)   The length of time, if any, that the subject property has
been vacant, considered in the context of the pace of development in the
vicinity of the subject property.
            (12)   The community need for the proposed map amendment and for
the uses and development it would allow.
            (13)   A survey, certified by a registered land surveyor, showing
existing lot lines and dimensions as well as lot area, all easements, all
public and private rights-of-way and all streets across and adjacent to the
subject property.
      j.   Applications for Planned Unit Development Preliminary Plan Approval.
Every application for planned unit development preliminary plan approval filed
pursuant to subsection
9-6-5  C. of this chapter will, in addition to the data and information
required pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  C.6.a, provide the following information:
            (1)   A development name unique to the area for identification
purposes.
            (2)   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the
subject property to effectuate the proposed planned unit development, including
a statement of all legal, beneficial, tenancy and contractual interests held in
or affecting the subject property, and a recent commitment for title insurance
or ownership search certificate.
            (3)   A map depicting municipal and special district boundaries
where adjacent to or within the subject property.
            (4)   A written statement addressing the following matters:
               (a)   A general description of the proposed planned unit
development, the planning objectives to be achieved by it, including the
rationales and assumptions of the applicant supporting the proposed planned
unit development, and the market it is intended to serve.
               (b)   How the proposed planned unit development is to be
designed, arranged and operated so as not to adversely affect the development
and use of neighboring property in accordance with applicable regulations of
this title.
            (5)   Schematic, soft-line drawings of the proposed planned unit
development preliminary plans, including public or private rights-of-way on or
adjacent to the subject property, the proposed dimensions and locations of
vehicular and pedestrian circulation and parking elements, public and private
open space, and residential, commercial, office, industrial and other land
uses, and the general locations of and purpose of all easements.
            (6)   A Tax Impact Study indicating the possible tax consequences
the proposed planned unit development will have upon the village and other
affected taxing bodies.
            (7)   A Traffic and Transit Impact Study including a list of new
street construction, traffic impacts, and traffic control improvements
necessary to accommodate the estimated increase in traffic and traffic related
changes occasioned by the proposed development and a statement of the
applicant’s proposals for providing those needed improvements. If the traffic
related changes are on County or State routes, the Zoning Officer may require
the applicant to request relevant information from those respective agencies.
            (8)   A preliminary engineering study showing the location and
adequacy of existing and proposed sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water
distribution systems.
            (9)   A written statement identifying existing natural and
environmental resources and features on the subject property, including its
topography, vegetation, wetlands and other special management areas, soils,
geology, and scenic view, and the impact of the proposed planned unit
development on such resources and features, including proposals to preserve or
protect such resources and features.
            (10)   Schematic, soft-line architectural elevations indicating the
general style of architecture and typical building materials.
            (11)   A statement of the applicant’s intent with respect to the
ownership, sale and leasing of the various completed units, structures, spaces
and areas within the proposed planned unit development.
            (12)   A development schedule for each and every stage of
construction stating the approximate beginning and completion date, proportion
of total public or common open space to be provided for each use and with each
development stage.
            (13)   A detailed description of the financial assurances to be
presented to guarantee completion of all public improvements and private open
space to be provided in connection with the proposed planned unit development.
            (14)   Evidence of the financing plan the applicant proposes to use
to complete the proposed planned unit development. The applicant’s prior
success in completing projects of similar scope may be offered in support of
this requirement.
            (15)   A preliminary plat of subdivision if required pursuant to
the subdivision ordinance.
         k.   Application for Planned Unit Development Final Plan Approval.
Every application for final planned unit development approval filed pursuant to
subsection
9-6-5  C. of this chapter will, in addition to the data and information
required pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  C.6.a., provide the following information:
            (1)   The date on which Development Preliminary Plan approvals were
granted.
            (2)   A statement and plan of the proposed treatment of the
perimeter of the proposed planned unit development, including materials and
techniques to be used.
            (3)   When the proposed planned unit development, or stage thereof,
includes provision for public or common open space, a statement describing the
provision made for the dedication or care and maintenance of such open space.
If it is proposed that such open space be owned or maintained by any entity
other than a governmental authority, copies of the proposed articles of
incorporation and by-laws of such entity will be submitted. When the property
is to be dedicated, a draft of the instrument of dedication will be submitted.
            (4)   Copies of any restrictive covenants to be recorded with
respect to property included in the Final Plan.
            (5)   A statement summarizing all changes that have been made, or
have occurred, in any document, plan, data or information previously submitted,
together with a revised copy of any such documents, plan or data.
            (6)   A final plat of subdivision if required pursuant to the
subdivision ordinance.
            (7)   All engineering data and drawings required in connection with
an application forfinal subdivision approval under the subdivision ordinance.
            (8)   All certificates, seals and signatures required for the
dedication of land and recordation of documents.
            (9)   Hard line elevations and scaled floor plans.
            (10)   Proof from appropriate governmental agencies that all taxes
on the subject property have been paid and that all special assessments, taxes,
and other levies against the subject property or any part thereof have been
paid in full.
         l.   Applications for Site Plan Approval. Whenever an application
filed pursuant to any provision of this chapter involves any use, construction
or development requiring the submission of a site plan pursuant to
9-6-6  of this chapter, a site plan illustrating the proposed use, construction
or development and providing at least the following data and information, on
one or more sheets, will be submitted as part of the application:
            (1)   A graphic rendering of the existing conditions, which
depicts:
               (a)   All significant natural, topographical and physical
features of the subject property including topographical contours at one-foot
(1') intervals;
               (b)   The location and extent of tree cover, including all
qualifying trees as defined by this title;
               (c)   The location and extent of water bodies and courses,
wetlands, marshes and special flood hazard areas, floodplains, and floodways on
or within one hundred feet (100') of the subject property;
               (d)   The location and extent of any buffer areas for wetlands
required by county ordinances on or within one hundred feet (100') of the
subject property;
               (e)   Existing drainage structures and patterns; and
               (f)   Soil conditions as they affect development.
            (2)   The location, use, size and height in stories and feet of
structures and other land uses on properties within two hundred and fifty feet
(250') of the subject property.
            (3)   For areas within any required yard or setback, any proposed
regarding of the subject property.
            (4)   Data concerning proposed structures and existing structures
that will remain, including:
               (a)   Location, size, use and arrangement, including height in
stories and feet;
               (b)   Where relevant, floor area ratio, gross floor area and net
floor area;
               (c)   Where relevant, number and size of dwelling units, by
dwelling unit type and number of bedrooms;
               (d)   Building coverage and lot coverage; and
               (e)   Description of the calculation method utilized in
computing all required statistics shown.
            (5)   Minimum yard and setback dimensions and, where relevant,
relation of yard and setback dimensions to the height, width and depth of any
structure.
            (6)   A vehicular and pedestrian circulation plan showing the
location, dimensions, gradient and number of all vehicular and pedestrian
circulation elements including rights-of-way and streets; driveway entrances,
curbs and curb cuts; parking spaces, loading spaces and circulation aisles;
sidewalks, walkways and pathways; and total lot coverage of all circulation
elements divided as between vehicular and pedestrian ways.
            (7)   All existing and proposed surface and sub-surface drainage
and retention and detention facilities and existing and proposed water, sewer,
gas, electric, telephone and cable communications lines and easements and all
other utility facilities.
            (8)   Location, size and arrangements of all outdoor signs and
lighting.
            (9)   Location and height of fences or screen plantings and the
type or kind of building materials or plantings to be used for fencing or
screening.
            (10)   Location, designation and total area of all usable open
space.
            (11)   A detailed landscaping plan, showing location, size and
species of all trees, shrubs and other plant material.
            (12)   A traffic study, if the Zoning Officer finds the development
may exceed the capacity or design of surrounding streets.
            (13)   An erosion control plan for the period during which
construction will be taking place, if required by the Zoning Officer finds the
expected earth disturbance cannot be maintained on site.
            (14)   Hard line elevations and floor plans.
      7.   Special Data Requests. In addition to the data and information
required pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  C.6., every applicant will submit any other and additional data,
information or documentation as the
   Zoning Officer or the Plan Commission may deem necessary or appropriate to a
full and proper consideration and disposition of the particular application.
      8.   Concurrent Applications. Where a proposed use or development
requires more than one approval pursuant to this title, applications for all
approvals may be filed concurrently notwithstanding the fact that approval of
one application may be a precondition to approval of other applications. Such
applications may, in the discretion of the official, officials, body, or bodies
charged with review of such applications be processed together; provided,
however, that no application will be approved unless all applications that are
a precondition to its approval have first been approved.
      9.   Withdrawal of Application. An applicant may withdraw an application
at any time prior to a final decision having been rendered with respect
thereto; provided that the applicant will have paid all applicable fees and
costs due the village pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  C.4. and made the request to withdraw in writing. A withdrawal will be
without prejudice to the applicant’s right to refile such application, but any
refiling will be treated as an entirely new filing and will be subject to the
procedures and fees of this chapter in the same manner as any other new
application.
      10.   Administrative Discretion. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in this chapter, the Zoning Officer or the Plan Commission may waive any
application requirements otherwise set forth in this subsection
9-6-2  C.6. where the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Officer or Plan Commission before which its application is pending that the
information required is not relevant to or necessary for the determination of
the application submitted.
   D.   Successive Applications.
      1.   Second Applications Without New Grounds Barred. Whenever any
application filed pursuant to this chapter has been finally denied on its
merits and all appeals with the village have been exhausted, a second
application, seeking essentially the same relief, whether or not in the same
form or on the same theory, will not be brought within two (2) years after the
date upon the last village action on the application, unless, in the opinion of
the Zoning Officer or the Plan Commission substantial new evidence is available
or a mistake of law or fact significantly affected the prior denial.
      2.   New Grounds to be Stated. Any second application will include a
detailed statement of the grounds justifying consideration of the application.
      3.   Exception. Whether or not new grounds are stated, any second
application filed more than two (2) years after the final denial of a prior
application will be heard on the merits as though no prior application had been
filed. The applicant will, however, be required to place in the record all
evidence available concerning changes of conditions or new facts that have
developed since the denial of the first application. In the absence of such
evidence it will be presumed that no new facts exist to support the new
petition that did not exist at the time of the denial of the first application.
   E.   Public Hearings and Meetings.
      1.   Setting Hearing or Meeting; Time Limitation. When the provisions of
this chapter require a public hearing or meeting in connection with any
application filed pursuant to this chapter, the Plan Commission will, upon
receipt of a properly completed application, fix a reasonable time and place
for such hearing or meeting; provided, however, that such hearing or meeting
will be commenced no later than sixty (60) days, and will be concluded no later
than one hundred and twenty (120) days, following the receipt of the subject
application unless the applicant agrees to an extension or unless the hearing
or meeting agenda of the body is completely committed during that time.
      2.   Notice.
         a.   Notice to be Given. Notice of public hearings and meetings set
pursuant to this subsection
9-6-2  E.2. will be given by the Zoning Officer or the applicant, as the case
may be, in the form and manner and to the persons herein specified.
         b.   Content of Notice. All notices will include the date, time and
place of such hearing or meeting, a description of the matter to be heard or
considered, and the common street address and property index number(s) (“PIN”).
The notice may also include a description of the particular location of the
subject property.
         c.   Notice Procedures for all Hearings and Meetings. Notice of every
hearing or meeting set pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  E.1. will be given by the Zoning Officer:
            (1)   By first class mail or personal delivery to the applicant or,
with the applicant’s consent, by email to the applicant; and, if a specific
parcel is the subject of the application, to the owner of the subject property.
            (2)   By first class mail to any newspaper or person that will have
filed a written request, accompanied by an annual fee as established from time
to time by the Zoning Officer to cover postage and handling, for notice of all
hearings or meetings held pursuant to this title. Such written request will
automatically expire on December 31 of the year in which it is made unless a
written request for renewal, accompanied by the annual fee, is submitted prior
to such date.
            (3)   By first class mail, personal delivery, email, or
interdepartmental delivery to the affected Village Board, commissions,
departments, or officials.
         d.   Hearings on Amendments, Special Use Permits and Variations. In
addition to notice as required by subsection
9-6-2  E.2.c., the following notice will be given for every hearing set for a
text amendment to this title, amendment to the zoning map, a special use
permit, special use permit renewal, special use permit amendment, planned unit
development, or variance:
            (1)   Content of Notice. The notice required pursuant to this
subsection will contain, at a minimum, the following information:
               (a)   The street address, property index number(s), and street
intersection location description (if applicable) of the property that is the
subject of the application;
               (b)   A brief statement of the nature of the relief being
requested;
               (c)   The name and address of the applicant;
               (d)   The name and address of the legal and beneficial owner of
the property, if any, that is the subject of the application.
            (2)   Notice by Newspaper Publication. The Zoning Officer will
cause a notice to be published in a newspaper published in, or of general
circulation within, the village at least once no less than fifteen (15) days,
nor more than thirty (30) days, in advance of the hearing date.
            (3)   Notice by Sign. If a specific property is the subject of the
application, the Zoning Officer or applicant will post the subject property
with a ground sign of approximately six square feet of gross surface area
containing the legibly written notice. The sign will be located on the subject
property so as to be visible from at least one (1) right-of-way abutting the
subject property. The Zoning Officer or applicant will remove the sign within
three (3) days after the hearing is closed.
            (4)   Notice by Mail. The Zoning Officer shall cause to be sent,
where applicable, notice mailed via first class mail to all the property owners
within five hundred feet (500'), exclusive of any right-of-way, of the specific
property. Any irregularity or mistake concerning mailed notice shall not
otherwise affect the validity of any legislative action.
            (5)   Report to Hearing Body. At the hearing, the Zoning Officer or
applicant will present to the Plan Commission an affidavit, certification or
other evidence satisfactory to the Plan Commission, demonstrating, to the
satisfaction of the Plan Commission, that the applicable notice requirements of
this subsection have been satisfied.
         e.   Hearing on Comprehensive Plan Amendment. In addition to notice as
required by subsection
9-6-2  E.2.c. above, notice of every hearing set pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  A.4.c. hereof in connection with the amendment of the comprehensive plan
will be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
affected counties at least fifteen (15) days before such hearing.
      3.   Referral to Plan Commission and Departments for Hearings and
Meetings
   Regarding Appeals, Variations, Amendments, Special Use Permits, and Planned
Unit Developments.
         a.   Zoning Officer to Refer Applications. The Zoning Officer will,
not later than the time set pursuant to subsection
9-6-2  E.2. for giving public notice, refer every application for an appeal
pursuant to subsection
9-6-4  B. of this chapter, for a variation pursuant to subsection
9-6-4  C. of this chapter, for an amendment pursuant to subsection
9-6-5  A. of this chapter, for a special use permit pursuant to subsection
9-6-5  B. of this chapter, and for a planned unit development pursuant to
subsection
9-6-5  C. of this chapter to all relevant village departments with review
authority over any application. The Zoning Officer may also refer any
application to any affected fire district or other state, county, or local
government for comment.
         b.   Review and Comments. Each department to which an application is
referred pursuant to this subsection 9-6-2 E.3.a. will review the application
and submit its comments to the Zoning Officer. The comments will, whenever
possible, be submitted at least two (2) business days prior to the date set for
the hearing and will be made available to any person on request prior to the
hearing.
      4.   Conduct of Hearings. The Plan Commission, in accordance with the
authority set forth in Section 11-13-22 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS
5/11-13-22, may adopt such rules of procedure as necessary and appropriate to
govern any public hearing required under this chapter. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-6-3: CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate of Zoning Compliance.
      1.   Authority. The Zoning Officer will have authority to issue
certificates of zoning compliance, but only in accordance with the provisions
of this section.
      2.   Purpose.
         a.   The certificate of zoning compliance is intended to serve two
general purposes:
            (1)   To provide a procedure for reviewing plans for conformance
with this title and a means for evidencing conformance; and
            (2)   As an adjunct procedure all other applications filed pursuant
to this chapter with respect to a specific use or development proposal.
         b.   When an application for a certificate of zoning compliance is
filed, it serves as a vehicle for routine plan review by the Zoning Officer
prior to consideration of special requests by other officials, departments or
the Plan Commission, thus avoiding needless special reviews of defective plans.
      3.   Certificate Required. Except where expressly waived by another
provision of this title, a certificate of zoning compliance must have first
been obtained from the Zoning Officer prior to:
         a.   Commencement of construction, reconstruction, remodeling,
alteration, or moving of any structure;
         b.   Commencement of grading, excavation, or improvement of land
preliminary to any construction on or use of such land; or
         c.   Village issuance of building or other permits pertaining to the
construction, reconstruction, remodeling, alteration, or moving of any
structure or the use of any land or structure.
      4.   Certificate not Required. In any case where a certificate of zoning
compliance is not required under this chapter, the Zoning Officer will, upon
written request, issue a certificate of such fact.
      5.   Relation to Other Applications. No application for a zoning
variation, application for a special use permit, application for an amendment
or application for approval of a planned development preliminary plan will be
processed unless an application for a certificate of zoning compliance will
first have been received, processed, and approved or denied solely on one or
more grounds that form the basis for the application. It is the intent of this
Section 9-6-3 that no application filed pursuant to this chapter with respect
to a specific use or development proposal will be processed until the Zoning
Officer is satisfied that the proposed use or development complies with the
provisions of this title in all respects except those within the scope of such
application.
      6.   Procedure.
         a.   Application. Applications for certificates of zoning compliance
will be filed in accordance with the requirements of subsection
9-6-2  C.6.b of this chapter.
         b.   Action on Application. Within ten (10) days following receipt of
a complete application for a certificate of zoning compliance, the Zoning
Officer will cause the application and related submissions to be reviewed for
compliance with this title and will inform the applicant whether the
application has been granted or denied.
         c.   Application Granted; Contents of Certificate. In any case where
an application is granted, the Zoning Officer will issue a certificate of
zoning compliance that will state the specific use of the property for which it
is issued; identify the specific plans, if any, pursuant to which it is issued;
set forth any conditions imposed in connection with any approval granted
pursuant to this chapter; and will read on its face:
      THIS CERTIFICATE DOES NOT SIGNIFY BUILDING CODE REVIEW OR APPROVAL AND IS
NOT AUTHORIZATION TO UNDERTAKE ANY WORK WITHOUT SUCH REVIEW AND APPROVAL WHERE
EITHER IS REQUIRED. BEFORE ANY STRUCTURE TO WHICH THIS CERTIFICATE IS
APPLICABLE MAY BE OCCUPIED OR USED FOR ANY PURPOSE, A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
MUST BE OBTAINED.
         d.   Application Denied. In any case where an application is denied,
the Zoning Officer will state specific reasons therefor and will cite the
specific provisions of this title upon which such denial is based.
            (1)   If relief from such denial would be available pursuant to a
companion application filed in connection with the application for a
certificate of zoning compliance, the Zoning Officer will inform the applicant
and will promptly process such companion application. If the application is
approved, the Zoning Officer will issue the requested certificate of zoning
compliance in accordance with the terms and conditions of such approval.
            (2)   If relief from the Zoning Officer’s denial of a certificate
of zoning compliance would be available by variation, special use permit or
site plan review, but no application therefor has been filed, the Zoning
Officer will so state and refer the applicant to the appropriate provisions of
this title.
         e.   Filing of Certificates. Every certificate issued pursuant to this
subsection will be kept on file with the Zoning Officer and will be a public
record open to inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Freedom of
Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq., as amended.
      7.   Effect of Issuance of Certificate. The issuance of a certificate of
zoning compliance will not authorize the establishment, expansion, or extension
of any use nor the development, construction, relocation, alteration, or moving
of building or structure, but will merely authorize the preparation, filing,
and processing of applications for any additional permits and approvals that
may be required by the codes and ordinances of the village, including, but not
limited to, a building permit, a certificate of occupancy and subdivision
approval.
      8.   Limitations on Certificates. Subject to an extension of time granted
by the Zoning Officer pursuant to subsection
9-6-1  B.12. of this chapter, a certificate of zoning compliance will become
null and void six (6) months after the date on which it was issued unless
within such period construction, reconstruction, remodeling, alteration, or
moving of a structure is commenced or a use is commenced.
      9.   Void Certificates. Any certificate of zoning compliance issued in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, whether intentionally, negligently
or innocently, will be void and confer no rights whatsoever.
   B.   Certificate of occupancy.
      1.   Authority. The Zoning Officer will have authority to issue
certificates of occupancy; provided, however, that no such certificate will be
issued except in accordance with the provisions of this subsection and the
other relevant provisions of the Woodridge Village Code, including this title
and title 8 governing development, building and related matters.
      2.   Purpose. For the purposes of this title, the certificate of
occupancy provides a procedure for the inspection of completed premises to
ensure their compliance with this title and approved plans prior to
commencement of the use or occupancy of such premises. The certificate may also
evidence compliance with other relevant provisions of this title and the
Woodridge Village Code, as set forth in those provisions.
      3.   Certificate required. Unless a certificate of occupancy is obtained
certifying compliance with the provisions of this title:
         a.   No structure, or addition thereto, constructed, reconstructed,
remodeled, altered or moved after the effective date of this title will be
occupied or used for any purpose; and
         b.   Except for changes involving only substitution of occupants in
existing dwelling units, no use or occupancy of any land or structure will be
changed to any other use or occupancy, whether or not construction, remodeling,
alteration, or moving is involved.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   Application. Where no certificate of zoning compliance is
required, applications for certificates of occupancy will be filed in
accordance with the requirements of subsection
9-6-2  C.6.b. of this chapter.
         b.   Where a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued, the
application for that certificate will also be treated as the application for a
certificate of occupancy and will be processed as such at such time as the
applicant or village inspector notifies the Zoning Officer that the subject
structure or use is ready for a certificate of occupancy in accordance with the
certificate of zoning compliance.
         c.   Action on application. Within ten (10) days following the receipt
of a complete application, the Zoning Officer will cause the subject structure
or premises to be inspected and will take the following actions based on the
inspection:
            (1)   If all work has been completed and the structure and use
thereof are in full and complete compliance with all applicable provisions of
this title, other relevant codes and ordinances of the village, the applicant’s
plans as approved and any conditions attached to any approval issued pursuant
to this chapter, the Zoning Officer will issue a certificate of occupancy.
            (2)   If, however, all work is not complete or is in any manner not
in full compliance with all applicable requirements, the Zoning Officer will
deny the application and inform the applicant in writing of the specific
deficiencies on which the denial is based, citing the particular provisions of
the codes and ordinances of the village, the particular items in the
applicant’s plans or the applicable special approval conditions with respect to
which compliance is lacking.
         d.   Contents of certificates. In addition to the matters required to
be contained in a certificate of occupancy pursuant to other applicable
provisions of the Woodridge Village Code, each certificate of occupancy issued
pursuant to this subsection will state the specific use of the subject property
for which it is issued; identify the specific plans, if any, pursuant to which
it is issued and set forth any conditions imposed in connection with any
approval granted pursuant to this chapter.
         e.   Filing of certificates. Every certificate issued pursuant to this
subsection will be kept on file with the Zoning Officer and will be a public
record open to inspection pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Freedom of
Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq., as amended.
      5.   Temporary certificate of occupancy. Notwithstanding the provisions
of subsection
9-6-3  B.3. above, where construction, reconstruction, remodeling or alteration
of a structure does not require the vacating of the structure, or where parts
of the structure are finished and ready for occupancy before the completion of
such construction, reconstruction, remodeling or alteration and are certified
upon inspection to be safe for use or occupancy and to be in full compliance
with all applicable provisions of this title, other relevant codes and
ordinances of the village, the applicant’s plans as approved and any conditions
attached to any approvals issued pursuant to this chapter with respect to such
structure or its premises, a temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued
for a period not to exceed six (6) months from its date, which temporary
certificate will bear on its face, in bold type, a statement of its temporary
nature; provided, however, that no such certificate will be issued except in
accordance with the provisions of this subsection and the other relevant
provisions of the Woodridge Village Code, including this title and title 8
governing development, building and related matters.
      6.   Certificate of occupancy for existing uses. The Zoning Officer may
issue a certificate of occupancy certifying the lawful existence and use of any
existing structure or use in the same manner, and subject to the same standards
and limitations, as authorized by this subsection with respect to new
structures and uses. The certificate will be prima facie evidence of the facts
contained in it with respect to any structure or use as of the date of its
issue and remain effective for that purpose for so long as neither the use or
structure nor the applicable provisions of this title are changed.
      7.   Certificate of occupancy for legal nonconformities. The Zoning
Officer may issue a certificate of occupancy certifying the lawful existence
and use of any nonconforming use, structure, lot or sign in the same manner,
and subject to the same standards and limitations, as authorized by this
subsection with respect to new structures and uses.
      8.   Void certificates. Any certificate of occupancy issued in violation
of the provisions of this chapter, whether intentionally, negligently, or
innocently, will be void ab initio and will confer no rights whatsoever. (Ord.
2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-6-4: INTERPRETATIONS, APPEALS AND VARIATIONS:
   A.   Interpretations.
      1.   Authority. The Zoning Officer may, subject to the procedures,
standards and limitations of this Section, render interpretations, including
use interpretations, of the provisions of this title and of any rule or
regulation issued pursuant to it.
      2.   Purpose. The interpretation authority established by this section is
intended to recognize that the provisions of this title though detailed and
lengthy, cannot possibly address every specific situation to which they may
have to be applied. Many such situations can, however, be readily addressed by
an interpretation of the specific provisions of this title in light of the
general and specific purposes for which those provisions have been enacted.
Because the interpretation authority of this title is an administrative rather
than a legislative authority, it is not intended to add to or change the
essential content of this title but, rather, it is intended only to allow
authoritative application of that content to specific cases.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Interpretations. Applications for
interpretations may be filed by any person having an interest in the
circumstances giving rise to the need for an interpretation; provided, however,
that interpretations will not be sought by any person based solely on
hypothetical facts or where the interpretation would have no effect other than
as an advisory opinion.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   Application. Applications for interpretations of this title will
be filed in accordance with the requirements of subsection
9-6-2  C.6.c. of this chapter.
         b.   Action on Application.
            (1)   Within thirty-five (35) days following the receipt of a
properly completed application for interpretation, the Zoning Officer will
inform the applicant in writing of their interpretation, stating the specific
precedent, reasons and analysis upon which the determination is based.
            (2)   The failure of the Zoning Officer to act within thirty-five
(35) days, or such further time to which the applicant can agree, will be
deemed to be a decision denying the application rendered on the day following
the thirty-five (35)-day period.
         c.   Appeal. Appeals from interpretations rendered by the Zoning
Officer may be taken to the Plan Commission as provided in subsection
9-6-4  B. of this chapter.
      5.   Standards for Use Interpretations. The following standards govern
the Zoning Officer, and the Plan Commission on appeals from the Zoning Officer,
in issuing use interpretations:
         a.   Any use defined in this title will be strictly interpreted as
therein defined.
         b.   No use interpretation will permit a use not already listed as a
permitted or special use in the district proposed for that use.
         c.   No use interpretation will permit any use in any district unless
evidence is presented that demonstrates that it will comply with each use
limitation established for that particular district.
         d.   No use interpretation will permit any use in a particular
district unless such use is substantially similar to other uses permitted in
such district.
         e.   If the proposed use is most similar to a use permitted only as a
special use in the district in which it is proposed to be located, then any use
interpretation permitting such use will be conditioned on the issuance of a
special use permit for such use pursuant to subsection
9-6-5  B. of this chapter.
         f.   No use interpretation will permit the establishment of any use
that would be inconsistent with the statement of purpose of the district in
question.
      6.   Effect of Favorable Use Interpretation. No use interpretation
finding a particular use to be permitted or specially permitted in a particular
district will authorize the establishment of that use nor the development,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, or moving of any building or
structure but will merely authorize the preparation, filing and processing of
applications for any permits and approvals that may be required by the codes
and ordinances of the village, including, but not limited to, a special use
permit, a certificate of zoning compliance, certificate of occupancy, a
building permit, subdivision approval, and site plan approval.
      7.   Limitations on Favorable Use Interpretations.
         a.   Subject to an extension of time granted by the Zoning Officer
pursuant to subsection
9-6-1  B.12. of this chapter, no use interpretation finding a particular use to
be permitted or specially permitted in a particular district will be valid for
a period longer than six (6) months from the date of issue unless a building
permit is issued, and construction is actually begun within that period and is
diligently pursued to completion, or a certificate of occupancy is obtained and
a use commenced within that period.
         b.   A use interpretation finding a particular use to be permitted or
specially permitted in a particular district will be deemed to authorize only
the particular use for which it was issued, and such permit will not be deemed
to authorize any claimed similar use for which a separate use interpretation
has not been issued. The permit will automatically expire and cease to be of
any force or effect if the particular use for which it was issued will, for any
reason, be discontinued for a period of six (6) consecutive months or more.
   B.   Appeals.
      1.   Authority. The Plan Commission will hear and decide appeals from,
and review orders, decisions, determinations, or the failure to act, of the
Zoning Officer acting pursuant to their authority and duties under this title
and to that end the Plan Commission will have the same powers and be subject to
the same standards and limitations as the Zoning Officer with respect to any
order, decision or determination being appealed. When considering and acting on
appeals, the Plan Commission will be considered a zoning Board of appeals, and
possess the statutory powers and limitations set forth in Section 11-13-3 and
Section 11-13-12 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3 and 65 ILCS
5/11-13-12, as amended.
      2.   Purpose. The appeal procedure is provided as a safeguard against
arbitrary, ill-considered, or erroneous administrative decisions. It is
intended to avoid the need for resort to legal action by providing a local
procedure for the review and correction of administrative errors. It is not,
however, intended as a means to subvert the clear purposes, intent or meaning
of this title or the rightful authority of the Zoning Officer to enforce this
title. To these ends, the Plan Commission will give all proper deference to the
spirit and language of this title and to the reasonable interpretations of
those charged with its administration.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Appeal. An application for appeal to the Plan
Commission may be filed by any person aggrieved or adversely affected by an
order, decision, determination, or failure to act of the Zoning Officer acting
pursuant to their authority and duties under this title.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   Application. An application for appeal to the Plan Commission
will be filed not later than forty-five (45) days following the action being
appealed and in accordance with the requirements of subsection
9-6-2  C.6.d. of this chapter.
         b.   Action by Zoning Officer. Upon receipt of a properly completed
application for an appeal, the Zoning Officer will transmit to the Plan
Commission the application together with all papers constituting the record
upon which the action appealed from was taken.
         c.   Public Hearing. The Zoning Officer will provide notice and the
Plan Commission will conduct a public hearing in accordance with subsection
9-6-2  E. of this chapter.
         d.   Action by Plan Commission.
            (1)   Within thirty-five (35) days following the close of the
public hearing, the Plan Commission will render a decision on the appeal in the
manner and form specified in subsection
9-6-1  C.2.d. of this chapter. The decision may reverse, affirm, or modify, in
whole or in part, the action appealed from and may include such order or
determination as, in the opinion of the Plan Commission, is proper to be made
in the premises.
            (2)   The failure of the Plan Commission to act within thirty-five
(35) days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, will be
deemed to be a decision denying the appeal.
      5.   Stay of Proceedings. An application for appeal properly filed
pursuant to subsection
9-6-4  B.4.a. above will stay all proceedings in the action appealed from,
unless the Zoning Officer submits a certificate to the Plan Commission
supported by facts that a stay would, in the Zoning Officer’s opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In that case, the applicant may request a
restraining order from the Plan Commission or the circuit court to stay the
proceedings, which may be granted upon reasonable written notice to the Zoning
Officer and on due cause shown.
      6.   Right to Grant Variation in Deciding Appeals. In any case where the
application for appeal is accompanied by an application for variation in
accordance with subsection
9-6-2  C.6.e., the Plan Commission will have the authority to grant, as part of
the relief, a variation but only in strict compliance with each provision of
subsection
9-6-4  C.
      7.   Conditions and Limitations on Rights Granted by Appeal. In any case
where this title imposes conditions and limitations upon any right, any such
right granted by the Plan Commission on appeal will be subject to such
conditions and limitations in the same manner and to the same extent as if
secured without the necessity of an appeal.
   C.   Variations.
      1.   Authority. The Village Board will have the authority to grant
variations from the provisions of this title, by ordinance duly adopted, and
only in compliance with the procedures set forth in this subsection
9-6-4  C. and in those specific instances enumerated in subsection
9-6-4  C.5. and then only in accordance with each of the standards enumerated
in subsection
9-6-4  C.6.
      2.   Purpose. The variation procedure is intended to provide a narrowly
circumscribed means by which relief may be granted from unforeseen particular
applications of this title that create practical difficulties or particular
hardships. When such difficulties or hardships are more appropriate for remedy,
if at all, pursuant to other provisions of this chapter, the variation
procedure is inappropriate.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Variations. Applications for variations may
be filed by the owner of, or any person having a contractual interest in, the
subject property.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   Application. Applications for variations will be filed in
accordance with the requirements of subsection
9-6-2  C.6.e. of this chapter.
         b.   Public Hearing. The Zoning Officer will provide notice and the
Plan Commission will conduct a public hearing in accordance with subsection
9-6-2  E. of this chapter.
         c.   Action by Plan Commission.
            (1)   Within thirty-five (35) days following the close of the
public hearing, the Plan Commission will render its recommendations granting or
denying the variation, in the manner and form specified by subsection
9-6-1  C.2.d. of this chapter.
            (2)   The failure of the Plan Commission to act within thirty-five
(35) days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, will be
deemed to be a decision to recommend denial of the variation.
            (3)   When considering and acting on variations, the Plan
Commission will be considered a zoning Board of appeals, and possess the
statutory powers and limitations set forth in Section 11-13-3 and Section 11-
13-5 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3 and 65 ILCS 5/11-13-5,
as amended.
         d.   Action by Village Board. Within sixty (60) days following the
receipt of the recommendation of the Plan Commission, or its failure to act as
above provided, the Village Board will either deny the application or, by
ordinance duly adopted, will grant the variation, with or without modifications
and conditions.
      5.   Authorized Variations.
         a.   Permitted Variations. Subject to the prohibitions set forth in
subsection
9-6-4  C.5.b. below, and subject to the other provisions of this section, the
Plan Commission may only consider and recommend the following variations:
            (1)   To vary the applicable lot area, lot width, and lot depth
requirements, subject to the following limitations:
               (a)   The minimum lot width and lot depth requirements shall not
be reduced more than fifty percent (50%).
               (b)   The minimum lot area for a single-family or two-family
dwelling shall not be reduced more than forty-five percent (45%).
               (c)   The minimum lot area per dwelling unit required for
multiple-family dwellings shall not be reduced so as to permit more dwelling
units than would be permitted by strict application of minimum lot area
requirements.
            (2)   To vary applicable bulk regulations, including maximum
height, lot coverage, and floor area ratio and minimum yard requirements.
            (3)   To vary applicable off-street parking and off-street loading
requirements.
            (4)   To vary regulations relating to restoration of damaged or
destroyed nonconforming structures.
            (5)   To vary the regulations relating to signs.
            (6)   To vary the regulations relating to fences.
         b.   Prohibited Variations. Notwithstanding any other provision of
subsection
9-6-4  C, no variation will be granted that:
            (1)   Is intended as a temporary measure only; or
            (2)   Is greater than the minimum variation necessary to relieve
the particular hardship or practical difficulty demonstrated by the applicant.
      6.   Standards for Variations.
         a.   General Standard. No variation will be granted pursuant to this
subsection
9-6-4  C. unless the applicant establishes that carrying out the strict letter
of the provisions of this title would create a particular hardship or a
practical difficultly. Such a showing will require proof that the variation
being sought satisfies each of the standards set forth in this subsection.
         b.   Unique Physical Condition. The subject property is exceptional as
compared to other lots subject to the same provision by reason of a unique
physical condition, including presence of an existing use, structure, or sign,
whether conforming or nonconforming; irregular or substandard shape or size;
exceptional topographical features; or other extraordinary physical conditions
peculiar to and inherent in the subject property that amount to more than a
mere inconvenience to the owner and that relate to or arise out of the lot
rather than the personal situation of the current owner of the lot.
         c.   Not Self-Created. The aforesaid unique physical condition is not
the result of any action or inaction of the owner or their predecessors in
title and existed at the time of the enactment of the provisions from which a
variation is sought or was created by natural forces or was the result of
governmental action, other than the adoption of this title, for which no
compensation was paid.
         d.   Denied Substantial Rights. The carrying out of the strict letter
of the provision from which a variation is sought would deprive the owner of
the subject property of substantial rights commonly enjoyed by owners of other
lots subject to the same provision.
         e.   Not Merely Special Privilege. The alleged hardship or difficulty
is not merely the inability of the owner or occupant to enjoy some special
privilege or additional right not available to owners or occupants of other
lots subject to the same provision, nor merely an inability to make more money
from the sale of the subject property; provided, however, that where the
standards herein set out exist, the existence of an economic hardship will not
be a prerequisite to the grant of an authorized variation.
         f.   Code and Plan Purposes. The variation would not result in a use
or development of the subject property that would not be in harmony with the
general and specific purposes for which this title and the provision from which
a variation is sought were enacted or the general purpose and intent of the
comprehensive plan.
         g.   Essential Character of the Area. The variation would not result
in a use or development on the subject property that:
            (1)   Would be materially detrimental to the public welfare or
materially injurious to the enjoyment, use, development value of property or
improvements permitted in the vicinity;
            (2)   Would materially impair an adequate supply of light and air
to the properties and improvements in the vicinity;
            (3)   Would substantially increase congestion in the public streets
due to traffic or parking;
            (4)   Would unduly increase the danger of flood or fire;
            (5)   Would unduly tax public utilities and facilities in the area;
or
            (6)   Would endanger the public health and safety.
         h.   No Other Remedy. There is no means other than the requested
variation by which the alleged hardship or difficulty can be avoided or
remedied to a degree sufficient to permit a reasonable use of the subject
property.
      7.   Variation Less Than Requested. A variation less than or different
from that requested may be granted when the record supports the applicant’s
right to some relief but not to the relief requested.
      8.   Conditions on Variations. The Plan Commission may recommend and the
Village Board may impose such specific conditions and limitations concerning
use, construction, character, location, landscaping, screening and other
matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this title upon the premises
benefitted by a variation as may be necessary or appropriate to prevent or
minimize adverse effects upon other property and improvements in the vicinity
of the subject property or upon public facilities and services. Such conditions
will be expressly set forth in the recommendation or ordinance granting the
variation. Violation of any such condition or limitation will be a violation of
this title and will constitute grounds for revocation of the variation.
      9.   Affidavit of Compliance with Conditions; Fee. Whenever any variation
authorized pursuant to subsection
9-6-4  C.5. is made subject to conditions and limitations to be met by the
applicant, the applicant will upon meeting such conditions file an affidavit
with the Zoning Officer so stating. Such affidavit will be accompanied by a
non-refundable fee, to be fixed in each case by the Zoning Officer, to recover
the village’s actual direct cost of an inspection to verify that such
conditions and limitations have been met.
      10.   Effect of Grant of Variation. The grant of a variation will not
authorize the establishment or extension of any use nor the development,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, or moving of any building or
structure but will merely authorize the preparation, filing, and processing of
applications for any permits and approval that may be required by the codes and
ordinances of the village, including, but not limited to, a certificate of
zoning compliance, a building permit, a certificate of occupancy, subdivision
approval, and site plan approval.
      11.   Limitations on Variations.
         a.   Subject to an extension of time granted by the Zoning Officer or
Village Board pursuant to subsection
9-6-1  B.12. of this chapter, no variation from the provisions of this title
will be valid for a period longer than one hundred and eighty (180) days, and
no variation from the provisions of this title that is granted concurrently
with a special use permit will be valid for a period longer than one year,
unless a building permit application is submitted within that period and is
diligently pursued to completion or unless a certificate of occupancy is issued
and a use is commenced within that period.
         b.   A variation will be deemed to authorize only the particular
construction or development for which it was issued and will automatically
expire and cease to be of any force or effect if such construction or
development will be removed and not replaced within six (6) months following
such removal.
   D.   Administrative Variations.
      1.   Authority.
         a.   The Zoning Officer will have the authority to grant
administrative variations from the provisions of this title pertaining to:
            (1)   Dimensional zoning relief related to setbacks and height; and
            (2)   Off-street parking requirements.
         b.   Administrative variations will only be permitted where the
requested relief does not exceed a five percent (5%) reduction of the required
dimensional or parking regulation. Administrative variations will only be
granted by the Zoning Officer in compliance with the procedures set forth in
this subsection
9-6-4  D.
      2.   Purpose. The administrative variation procedure is intended to
provide a narrowly tailored and streamlined process to grant minimal variations
resulting from unforeseen particular applications of this title that create
practical difficulties or particular hardships. When such difficulties or
hardships are more appropriate for remedy, if at all, pursuant to other
provisions of this chapter, the administrative variation procedure is
inappropriate.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Administrative Variations. Applications for
administrative variations may be filed by the owner of, or any person having a
contractual interest in, the subject property.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   Application. Applications for administrative variations will be
filed in accordance with the requirements of subsection
9-6-2  C.6.f. of this chapter.
         b.   Application Notification. Upon receipt of a complete application
conforming to the requirements set forth in subsection
9-6-4  D.4.a., the Zoning Officer will review the application within thirty
(30) days and notify the applicant via mail of their decision. If an
application for an administrative variation is denied, the Zoning Officer will
explain the reasons for the denial and advise the applicant that he or she may
petition for a variation pursuant to subsection
9-6-4  C. of this chapter.
         c.   Adjoining Property Owner Objection. In the event that an
immediately adjoining property owner objects to the administrative variation,
the application for an administrative variation will be subject to the
requirements for a public hearing for a variation with the Plan Commission, as
set forth in subsection
9-6-4  C.4.b.
         d.   Approval. If the Zoning Officer finds the variation request to
meet the standards contained in this section, the Zoning Officer will:
            (1)   Notify the applicant via first class mail;
            (2)   Notify the Village Board; and
            (3)   Record or cause to be recorded the variation with the county
recorder of deeds for the subject property. The applicant will bear all costs
of recording the administrative variation.
      5.   Standards for Administrative Variations. Administrative variations
will only be granted when the request is consistent with the general purpose
and intent of this title and the applicant has demonstrated in writing the
satisfaction of the following three (3) standards:
         a.   Hardship or Unintentional Human Error. That a particular hardship
or practical difficulty exists that is unique to the subject property and does
not apply generally to properties in the zoning district, and that the strict
enforcement of the zoning requirement deprives the applicant of the reasonable
use of the property.
         b.   Prohibitions. That the granting of the variation will not:
            (1)   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to the adjacent
property;
            (2)   Increase the hazard from fire or other dangers to said
property;
            (3)   Diminish the value of land and buildings in the immediate
neighborhood;
            (4)   Unduly increase traffic congestion in the public streets and
highways;
            (5)   Increase the potential for flood damages to adjacent
property; or
            (6)   Otherwise impair the public health, safety, comfort, morals
or general welfare of the inhabitants of the village.
         c.   Essential Character of the Neighborhood. That the granting of the
variation will be in harmony with the essential character of the neighborhood.
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-6-5: AMENDMENTS, SPECIAL USE, AND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Amendments.
      1.   Authority. The Plan Commission may recommend, and the Village Board
may approve by duly enacted ordinance, amendments to this title and the zoning
map in accordance with the procedures set out in this subsection
9-6-5  A.
      2.   Purpose. The amendment process established by this subsection
9-6-5  A. is intended to provide a means for making changes to the text of this
title and on the zoning map that have more or less general significance or
application. It is not intended to relieve particular hardships or to confer
special privileges or rights. Rather, it is intended as a tool to adjust the
provisions of this title and zoning map in light of changing, newly discovered,
or newly imp rtant conditions, situations, or knowledge.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Amendments. An application for an amendment
may be filed by the Village Board, the Plan Commission, the Zoning Officer, the
owner of, or any person having a contractual interest in, any property to be
affected by a proposed amendment to the zoning map, or any person interested in
a proposed amendment to the text of this title.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   Application. An application for an amendment to this title or the
zoning map will be filed in accordance with the requirements of subsection
9-6-2  C.6.g. and Section
9-6-2  C.6.i. of this chapter.
         b.   Referral. Every properly filed and completed application for an
amendment to this title or the zoning map will be referred by the Zoning
Officer to the Plan Commission.
         c.   Public Hearing. In any case where an application for an amendment
to this title or the zoning map is referred by the Zoning Officer, the Zoning
Officer will provide notice and the Plan Commission will conduct a public
hearing in accordance with subsection
9-6-2  E. of this chapter.
         d.   Action by Plan Commission.
            (1)   Within twenty-one (21) days following the conclusion of the
public hearing, the Plan Commission will transmit to the Village Board its
recommendation in the form specified by subsection
9-6-1  C.2.d. of this Chapter.
            (2)   The failure of the Plan Commission to act within twenty-one
(21) days following the conclusion of such hearing, or such further time to
which the applicant may agree, will be deemed a recommendation for the approval
of the proposed amendment as submitted.
      5.   Action by Village Board; Protest.
         a.   Within sixty (60) days following the receipt of the
recommendation of the Plan Commission, or its failure to act as above provided,
the Village Board will either deny the application or, by ordinance duly
adopted, adopt the proposed amendment, with or without modifications; provided,
however, that in the event a duly signed and acknowledged protest against a
proposed amendment is filed with the village clerk before the adoption of such
amendment by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more of the frontage to be
affected by the proposed amendment, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or
more of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by
the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more of the frontage directly opposite
the frontage to be affected, such amendment will not be passed except by a two-
thirds vote of the Village Board.
         b.   The failure of the Village Board to act within sixty (60) days or
such further time to which the applicant may agree, will be deemed to be a
decision denying the application.
      6.   Standard for Amendments. The wisdom of amending the zoning map or
the text of this title is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of
the Village Board and is not dictated by any set standard. However, in
determining whether a proposed amendment should be granted or denied, the
Village Board will be guided by the principle that its power to amend the
zoning map or this title is not an arbitrary one but one that may be exercised
only when the public good demands or requires the amendment to be made. In
considering whether that principle is satisfied in any particular case, the
Village Board will weigh the factors that subsection
9-6-2  C.6.g. or
9-6-2  C.6.i. requires the applicant to address.
   B.   Special Use Permits.
      1.   Authority. The Village Board may, in accordance with the procedures
and standards set out in this subsection and by ordinance duly adopted, grant
special use permits authorizing the development of uses listed as special uses
in the regulations applicable to the district in which the subject property is
located.
      2.   Purpose. Special uses are those uses having some special impact or
uniqueness that require a careful review of their location, design,
configuration and special impact to determine, against fixed standards, the
desirability of permitting their establishment on any given site. They are uses
that may or may not be appropriate in a particular location depending on a
weighing, in each case, of the public need and benefit against the local impact
and effect.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Special Use Permits. An application for a
special use permit may be filed by the owner of, or any person having a
contractual interest in, the subject property.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   Optional Pre-application Meeting. Potential special use permit
applicants may, but are not required, to request a pre-application meeting with
the Zoning Officer or the Village Board. The purpose of a pre-application
meeting is to enable the potential applicant to present a development concept
before investing significant time and resources for an application submittal
under this title and obtain feedback from the Zoning Officer or Village Board
on any possible issues or areas of concern. The pre-application meeting is
optional and non-binding and does not commit the applicant, the Zoning Officer,
Plan Commission, Village Board, or any other department, commission, Board, or
other official of the village in any way whatsoever. The applicant may use the
information from a pre-application meeting to prepare their application, but
each application will be reviewed, and all recommendation and decisions will be
conducted in accordance with the terms of this title.
         b.   Application. An application for a special use permit will be
filed in accordance with the requirements of subsection
9-6-2  C.6.h. of this chapter.
         c.   Referral. Every properly filed and completed application for a
special use permit will be referred by the Zoning Officer to the Plan
Commission.
         d.   Public Hearing. In any case where an application for a special
use permit is referred to the Plan Commission, the Zoning Officer will provide
notice and the Plan Commission will conduct a public hearing in accordance with
subsection
9-6-2  E. of this chapter.
         e.   Action by Plan Commission.
            (1)   Within twenty-one (21) days following conclusion of the
public hearing, the Plan Commission will transmit to the Village Board its
recommendation in a form specified by subsection
9-6-1  C.2.d of this chapter, recommending either granting the application for
a special use permit; granting the application subject to conditions, as
specified in subsection
9-6-5  B.6. below; or denying the application.
            (2)   The failure of the Plan Commission to act within twenty-one
(21) days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, will be
deemed a recommendation for the approval of the proposed special use permit.
         f.   Action by Village Board. Within sixty (60) days following the
receipt of the recommendation of the Plan Commission, or its failure to act as
above provided, the Village Board will either deny the application or, by
ordinance duly adopted, will grant the special use permit, with or without
conditions.
         g.   Approval by Village Board After Recommendation to Deny. In the
event the Plan Commission recommends denial of a special use permit, the
Village Board may approve the special use permit, by ordinance duly adopted,
upon their favorable majority vote.)
      5.   Standards for Special Use Permits.
         a.   General Standards. No special use permit will be recommended or
granted pursuant to this subsection unless the applicant establishes that:
            (1)   Code and Plan Purposes. The proposed use and development will
be in harmony with the general and specific purposes for which this title was
enacted and for which the regulations of the district in question were
established and with the general purpose and intent of the comprehensive plan.
            (2)   No Undue Adverse Impact. The proposed use, drainage, and
development will not have a substantial or undue adverse effect upon adjacent
property, the character of the area, or the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
            (3)   No Interference with Surrounding Development. The proposed
use and development will be constructed, arranged and operated so as not to
dominate the immediate vicinity or to interfere with the use and development of
neighboring property in accordance with the applicable district regulations.
            (4)   Adequate Public Facilities. The proposed use and development
will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services such as
streets, public utilities, drainage structures, police and fire protection,
refuse disposal, parks, libraries, and schools, or the applicant will provide
adequately for such services.
            (5)   No Traffic Congestion. The proposed use and development will
not cause undue traffic congestion nor draw significant amounts of traffic
through residential streets.
            (6)   No Destruction of Significant Features. The proposed use and
development will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of natural,
scenic, or historic features of significant importance.
            (7)   Compliance with Standards. The proposed use and development
complies with all additional standards imposed on it by the particular
provision of this title authorizing such use.
            (8)   Public Benefit. Whether, and to what extent, the proposed use
and development at the particular location requested is necessary or desirable
to provide a service or a facility that is in the interest of the public
convenience or that will contribute to the general welfare of the neighborhood
or community.
            (9)   Mitigation of Adverse Impacts. Whether, and to what extent,
all steps possible have been taken to minimize any adverse effects of the
proposed use and development on the immediate vicinity through building design,
site design, landscaping, and screening.
         b.   Special Standards for Specified Special Uses. Where the district
regulations authorizing any special use in a particular district impose special
standards to be met by such use in such district, a permit for such use in such
district will not be recommended or granted unless the applicant will establish
compliance with such special standards.
      6.   Conditions; Periodic Review; Term.
         a.   Conditions on Special Use Permits. In order to prevent or
minimize substantial or undue adverse effects upon neighboring and adjacent
properties and improvements, substantial or undue or upon public facilities and
services, the Plan Commission may recommend, and the Village Board may impose,
and expressly include in the ordinance granting a special use permit,
conditions and limitations upon the premises benefitted by a special use
permit. Such conditions, restrictions, and limitations may include, without
limitation, the following:
            (1)   Limitations and restrictions of the use of the subject
property;
            (2)   Restrictions on construction activity that will occur on and
around the subject property;
            (3)   Conditions concerning the character and design of the
proposed use and development;
            (4)   The location of the use within the subject property;
            (5)   The provision of landscaping and screening, with specific
regarding to design, quantity, quality, size and location;
            (6)   Restrictions on the hours of operation of the use;
            (7)   A requirement that the subject property be developed and used
in strict accordance with a site plan that is attached to the ordinance
granting the special use permit; and
            (8)   Any other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of
this title.
         b.   Violation of Conditions. Violation of any of the conditions
imposed pursuant to subsection
9-6-5  B.6. of this chapter will be a violation of this title and will
constitute grounds for revocation of the special use permit.
         c.   Periodic Review. The Plan Commission may recommend, and the
Village Board may impose, a requirement that the special use permit be publicly
reviewed periodically pursuant to and in accordance with such procedures as are
set forth in the ordinance granting the special use permit. In every instance,
such procedures will provide the applicant with advance notice of, and an
opportunity to be heard at, such periodic review.
         d.   Term of Special Use Permit. Because of the unique operational
nature, and potential unknown adverse impacts, of certain special uses, the
Plan Commission may recommend, and the Village Board may impose, a term
limitation on the duration of certain special uses. Such term limitation will:
            (1)   Be set forth in the ordinance granting the special use
permit; and
            (2)   Will be subject to renewal in accordance with subsection
9-6-5  B.11. of this chapter.
      7.   Affidavit of Compliance with Conditions. Whenever any special use
permit granted pursuant to this subsection is made subject to conditions or
limitations to be met by the applicant, the applicant will, upon meeting such
conditions, file an affidavit with the Zoning Officer so stating. Such
affidavit will be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee, to be fixed in each case
by the Zoning Officer, to recover the village’s actual direct cost of an
inspection to verify that such conditions and limitations have been met.
      8.   Effect of Issuance of a Special Use Permit. The granting of a
special use permit will not authorize the establishment or extension of any use
nor the development, construction, reconstruction, alteration, or moving of any
building or structure, but will merely authorize the preparation, filing, and
processing of applications for any permits or approvals that may be required by
the codes and ordinances of the village, including but not limited to, a
certificate of zoning compliance, a building permit, a certificate of occupancy
and subdivision approval.
      9.   Limitations on Special Use Permits. Subject to an extension of time
granted by the Zoning Officer pursuant to subsection
9-6-1  B.12. of this chapter, no special use permit will be valid for a period
longer than one year unless a building permit is issued and construction is
actually begun within that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to
completion or unless a certificate of occupancy is issued and a use commenced
within that period. A special use permit will be deemed to authorize only the
particular use for which it was issued, and such permit will automatically
expire and cease to be of any force or effect if such use will, for any reason,
be discontinued for a period of six (6) consecutive months or more. Except when
otherwise provided in the ordinance granting a special use permit, a special
use permit will be deemed to relate to, and be for the benefit of, the current
owner or operator of the use or lot in question rather than to the lot itself.
      10.   Amendments to Special Use Permits. A special use permit may be
amended, varied, or altered only pursuant to the procedures and subject to the
standards and limitations provided in this subsection
9-6-5  B. for its original approval.
      11.   Renewal of Special Use Permits. The Village Board may, in
accordance with the procedures and standards set out in this subsection
9-6-5  B.11., consider requests for renewal of special use permits that have
been term limited pursuant to subsection
9-6-5  B.6.d.. An application for the renewal of a special use permit must be
filed by the party to whom a special use permit was granted, or a permitted
successor thereto or assignee thereof, and must be filed prior to the date on
which the term of the special use permit is scheduled to expire. The Village
Board may consider such request at a public hearing following notice pursuant
to subsection
9-6-2  E. of this chapter. The Village Board may, but will have no obligation
to, seek the recommendation of the Plan Commission prior to such consideration.
In the event that the party requesting a renewal demonstrates, to the
satisfaction of the Village Board, that the standards and circumstances under
which the special use permit was originally approved have not materially
changed, then the Village Board will, by ordinance duly adopted, renew the
special use permit for the same period of time for which the special use permit
was first valid. In the event that the Village Board determines that the
standards and circumstances under which the special use permit was originally
approved have materially changed, the Village Board will have no obligation to
renew the special use permit, or may do so with additional conditions.
   C.   Planned Unit Developments.
      1.   Authority. The Village Board may, in accordance with the procedures
and standards set out in this section, and by ordinance duly adopted, grant
special use permits authorizing the development of planned developments, but
only in the districts where such developments are listed as an authorized
special use.
      2.   Purpose. Planned developments are included in this title as a
distinct category of special use. As such, they are authorized for the same
general purposes as all other special uses. The planned development is intended
to allow the relaxation of otherwise applicable substantive requirements of
this title based upon procedural protections providing for detailed review of
individual proposals for significant developments. This special regulatory
approach is included in this title in recognition of the fact that traditional
regulations, which may be useful in protecting the character of substantially
developed and stable areas, may impose inappropriate regulations and rigidities
upon the development or redevelopment of parcels or areas that lend themselves
to an individual, planned approach. Through the flexibility of the planned
development technique, the village seeks to achieve the following specific
objectives:
         a.   Creation of a more desirable environment than would be possible
through strict application of other village land use regulations.
         b.   Promotion of a creative approach to the use of land and related
physical facilities resulting in better design and development, including
aesthetic amenities.
         c.   Preservation and enhancement of desirable site characteristics
such as natural topography, vegetation, and geologic features, and the
prevention of soil erosion.
         d.   Combination and coordination of architectural styles, building
forms, and building relationships.
         e.   Provision for the preservation and beneficial use of open space.
         f.   An increase in the amount of open space over that which would
result from the application of conventional subdivision and zoning regulations.
         g.   Encouragement of land uses that promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Planned Development Approval. An
application for special use for a planned development may be filed by the owner
of, or any person having a contractual interest in, the subject property.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   Informal Review: To initiate the planned development process for
developments greater than five (5) acres, the owner or developer will meet with
village staff for an informal review of the potential development, its
compliance with the village’s Comprehensive Plan and development ordinances,
appropriateness for the site and surrounding areas, the approval process, and
related matters.
   The owner or developer of proposed planned developments of five acres or
less may request an optional informal review. This informal review does not
require formal application, fee, or filing of a planned development plan. To
make the discussion productive, prospective applicants are advised to provide
information describing the land use, property size, and character of the
anticipated development.
         b.   Village Board Pre-Application Review: Prior to the applicant
filing for planned development consideration for developments greater than five
(5) acres, a pre-application review meeting shall be held with the Village
Board as an agenda item of a regularly scheduled meeting. The owner or
developer of proposed planned developments of five (5) acres or less may
request an optional pre-application review. This meeting is to benefit the
applicant and provide insights and understanding as to the Village Board’s
overall perspective on how the proposed planned development adheres to the
village’s Comprehensive Plan, what information will be useful to the Village
Board as part of the formal approval process, and what issues the Village Board
notes merit consideration during the process. This information will allow the
applicant to prepare necessary and appropriately detailed information for the
development pre-application plan approval. The following materials shall be
provided to the village prior to scheduling and conducting the Village Board
pre-application review, as well as other materials that may be required by the
Zoning Officer as needed to provide useful background for the Village Board:
            (1)   General Site Information: Data regarding site conditions,
drainage, land and soil characteristics, available community facilities and
utilities, existing covenants, and other related information.
            (2)   Sketch Plan: A scaled drawing in sketch form showing the
proposed location and extent of the land uses, major streets, lots,
environmental areas, stormwater management facilities, and other features as
needed to convey the proposed form of development.
            (3)   Property Survey: A property survey and description of the
site proposed for development.
            (4)   Proof of Ownership or Interest: Evidence of property
ownership or control.
            (5)   Any views expressed in the course of the Village Board’s pre-
application review is only advisory and only the individual views of the member
expressing them. Nothing said or done in the course of the pre-application
review will be deemed to create, or to prejudice, any rights of the applicant
or to obligate the Plan Commission, or any member of it, to recommend approval
or denial of any formal application following full consideration as required by
this chapter.
         c.   Technical Review: A formal meeting to review proposed planned
developments greater than five acres will be held with village staff for
preliminary consideration of the proposed development in light of the
requirements of this title and the village code. The owner or developer of
proposed planned developments of five (5) acres or less may request an optional
technical review. Materials required prior to scheduling and conducting the
technical review, shall be the same as the Plan Commission pre-application
review, as well as other materials that may be required by the Zoning Officer
as needed to provide useful background for the review team.
         d.   Development Preliminary Plan:
            (1)   Purpose. The development preliminary plan is intended to
provide the applicant an opportunity to submit a plan showing the basic scope,
character, and nature of the entire proposed planned development without
incurring undue cost. The development preliminary plan is the basis on which
the required public hearing is held, thus permitting public consideration of
the proposal at the earliest possible stage. In order to permit the village and
the applicant to proceed with some assurance, approval of the development
preliminary plan binds the applicant and the village with respect to the
following basic elements of development:
               (a)   Categories of uses to be permitted;
               (b)   General location of residential and nonresidential land
uses;
               (c)   Overall maximum density of residential uses and intensity
of nonresidential uses;
               (d)   General architectural style of the proposed development;
               (e)   General location and extent of public and private open
space, including recreational amenities;
               (f)   General location of vehicular and pedestrian circulation
systems;
               (g)   Staging of development; and
               (h)   Nature, scope, and extent of public dedications,
improvements, or contributions to be provided by the applicant.
            (2)   Application. Subsequent to the technical review, as set forth
in subsection
9-6-5  C.4.c. of this chapter, but in no event more than six (6) months
thereafter, a formal application for approval of a development preliminary plan
shall be filed on applications as established by subsection
9-6-2  C, and subsections
9-6-2  C.6.j.
            (3)   Public Hearing. The Zoning Officer will provide notice and
the Plan Commission will conduct a public hearing in accordance with subsection
9-6-2  E. of this chapter.
            (4)   Action by Plan Commission. Within thirty-five (35) days
following the conclusion of the public hearing, the Plan Commission will
transmit to the Village Board its recommendation, in the form specified by
subsection
9-6-1  C.2.d. of this chapter that the development preliminary plan either be
approved, be approved subject to modifications, or not be approved. The failure
of the Plan Commission to act within thirty-five (35) days, or such further
time to which the applicant may agree, shall be deemed a recommendation for the
approval of the development preliminary plan as submitted.
            (5)   Action by Village Board. Within thirty-five (35) days
following the receipt of the recommendation of the Plan Commission, or its
failure to act as above provided, the Village Board will either deny the
application for approval of the development preliminary plan; remand it back to
the Plan Commission for further consideration of specified matter; or shall, by
resolution duly adopted, approve the development preliminary plan, with or
without modifications and conditions to be accepted by the applicant as a
condition of such approval, and refer the matter to the Plan Commission for
processing of the final plan. The failure of the Village Board to act within
thirty-five (35) days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree,
shall be deemed to be a decision denying approval of the development
preliminary plan.
            (6)   Coordination with Subdivision Regulations Ordinance. When a
subdivision of land subject to the provisions of title 10 of the village code
is proposed in connection with a planned development, review of the preliminary
plat of the proposed subdivision shall be carried out simultaneously with
review of the development preliminary plan.
            (7)   Optional Submission of Final Plan. The applicant may, at
their option, submit a final plan for the proposed planned development pursuant
to the requirements of subsection
9-6-5  C.4.e. of this chapter simultaneously with the submission of the
development preliminary plan. In such case, the applicant will comply with all
provisions of this code applicable to submission of the development preliminary
plan and to submission of the final plan. The Plan Commission and the Village
Board will consider the development preliminary plan and final plan
simultaneously and grant or deny final plan approval in accordance with the
provisions of subsection
9-6-5  C.4.e. of this chapter.
         e.   Final Plan.
            (1)   Purpose. The final plan is intended to particularize, refine,
and implement the development preliminary plan and to serve as a complete,
thorough, and permanent public record of the planned development and the manner
in which it is to be developed.
            (2)   Application. Subsequent to approval of the development
preliminary plan, but in no event later than twelve (12)-months after approval
of the development preliminary plan, the applicant shall file an application
for final plan approval in accordance with the requirements of subsection
9-6-2  C.6.k. of this title. The application shall refine, implement, and be in
substantial conformity with the approved development preliminary plan.
            (3)   Public Meeting. The Zoning Officer will provide notice and
the Plan Commission will conduct a public meeting in accordance with subsection
9-6-2  E.2.
            (4)   Coordination with Subdivision Ordinance. When a subdivision
of land subject to title 10 of the village code is proposed in connection with
a planned development, review of the final plat of the proposed subdivision
shall be carried out simultaneously with review of the final plan.
            (5)   Phasing of Final Plan Approval. An application for final plan
approval may include the entire area included in the approved development
preliminary plan or one or more phases, stages, or units thereof; provided,
however, that the following matters must be addressed and provide in the first
phase, stage, or unit submitted for final plan approval:
               (a)   All public improvements required or proposed for the
entire area included in the approved development preliminary plan.
               (b)   All open space required or proposed for the entire area
included in the approved development preliminary plan.
               (c)   All land dedications required or proposed for the entire
area included in the approved development preliminary plan.
               (d)   The payment of all fees required by this title and other
titles of the village code.
            (6)   Action by Plan Commission.
               (a)   Evaluation. Within sixty (60) days following the filing of
an application for approval of a final plan, the Plan Commission will with such
aid and advice of such village staff and consultants as may be appropriate,
review and act on the plan. This review will consider:
                  i.   Whether the final plan is in substantial conformity with
the approved development preliminary plan;
                  ii.   The merit or lack of merit of any departure of the
final plan from substantial conformity with the approved development
preliminary plan;
                  iii.   Whether the final plan complies with any and all
conditions imposed by the approval of the development preliminary plan; and
                  iv.   Whether the final plan complies with the provisions of
this title and all other applicable federal, state, and village codes,
ordinances, and regulations.
               (b)   Approval Based on Substantial Conformity. If the Plan
Commission finds substantial conformity between the final plan and the approved
development preliminary plan and further finds the final plan to be in all
other respects complete and in compliance with any and all conditions imposed
by approval of the development preliminary plan and with the provisions of this
title and all other applicable federal, state, and village codes, ordinances,
and regulations, it shall transmit the plan to the Village Board with its
recommendation, in the form specified in subsection
9-6-1  C.2.d. of this chapter, that the Village Board approve the final plan,
with or without modifications and conditions to be accepted by the applicant as
a condition of approval.
               (c)    Recommendation of Denial. In any case where the Plan
Commission finds that the final plan is not in substantial conformity with the
approved development preliminary plan and does not merit approval, or in any
case where it requires modifications of a plan that are not accepted by the
applicant, the Plan Commission will transmit the plan to the Village Board
together with its recommendation and specific reasons in support of its
recommendation, in the form specified in subsection
9-6-1  C.2.d. of this chapter, that the final plan not be approved.
               (d)   Failure to Act. The failure of the Plan Commission to act
within the sixty (60)-day period specified in subsection
9-6-5  C.4.e(6)(a) of this section, or such further time to which the applicant
may agree, will be deemed to be a recommendation to the Village Board to
approve the final plan as submitted.
            (7)   Action by Village Board. Within sixty (60) days following the
receipt of the recommendation of the Plan Commission, or its failure to act as
above provided, the Village Board shall take action in accordance with the
following paragraphs:
               (a)   Approval Based on Substantial Conformity. If the Plan
Commission has recommended approval of a final plan pursuant to subsection
9-6-5  C.4.e.(6)(b) of this chapter, the Village Board will, unless it
specifically rejects one (1) or more of the findings of the Plan Commission on
the basis of expressly stated reasons, approve the final plan by a duly adopted
ordinance.
               (b)   Approval Notwithstanding Plan Commission Recommendation of
Denial. If the Plan Commission has recommended denial of a final plan pursuant
to subsection
9-6-5  C.4.e.(6)(c) of this chapter, the Village Board may, if it finds that
the final plan merits approval and otherwise conforms to the requirements of
this title, approve the final plan by a duly adopted ordinance.
               (c)   Referral Back to Planning and Zoning Commission. In any
case other than that specified in subsection
9-6-5  C.4.e.(6)(c), the Village Board may refer the final plan back to the
Plan Commission for further consideration of specified matters.
               (d)   Conditions on Final Plan Approval. The approval of any
final plan may, in addition, be granted by the Village Board, with or without
modifications and conditions to be accepted by the applicant as a condition of
approval.
               (e)   Failure to Act. The failure of the Village Board to act
within sixty (60)-days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree,
will be deemed to be a decision denying final plan approval.
            (8)   Recording of Final Plan. When a final plan is approved, the
village clerk will cause the final plan, or the portions thereof as are
appropriate, to be recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds where the
property is situated, at the applicant’s expense.
            (9)   Limitation on Final Plan Approval. Construction must commence
in accordance with the approved final plan within one year after the final plan
approval, or within such shorter time as may be established by the approved
development schedule. Failure to commence construction within this period will,
unless an extension of time has been granted by the Village Board pursuant to
subsection
9-6-1  B.12. of this chapter, automatically render void the final plan approval
and all approvals of the planned development and all permits based on such
approvals, and the Village Board will, without further direction, initiate an
appropriate application to revoke the special use permit for all portions of
the planned development that have not yet been completed. The special use
permit will be revoked by ordinance duly adopted by the Village Board, and the
village clerk will cause the ordinance, or the portions thereof as are
appropriate, to be recorded with the in the County Recorder of Deeds where the
property is situated, at the expense of the owner or operator of the uses or
lots in question.
            (10)   Building and Other Permits. Upon final plan approval, but
not before, appropriate officials of the village may, upon proper application
by the applicant, issue building and other permits to the applicant for the
development, construction, and other work in the area encompassed by the
approved final plan; provided however, that no permit will be issued unless the
appropriate official is first satisfied that the requirements of any codes,
ordinances, rule, or regulation of the village, in addition to this title, that
are applicable to the permit sought have been satisfied. Building permits may,
however, be withheld at the discretion of the Village Board or appropriate
village official at any time it is determined that the development of the
planned development is not proceeding in strict compliance with the approved
final plan.
      5.   Standards for Planned Developments.
         a.   Special Use Permit Standards. No special use permit for a planned
development will be recommended or granted pursuant to this section unless the
applicant establishes that the proposed planned development will meet each of
the standards made applicable to special uses pursuant to subsection
9-6-5  B.5.
         b.   Additional Standards for All Planned Developments. No special use
permit for a planned development will be recommended or granted unless the
applicant establishes that the proposed planned development will meet each of
the following additional standards:
            (1)   Unified Ownership Required. The entire property proposed for
planned development treatment is in single ownership or under unified control
to ensure that the entire property will be developed as a unified whole. All
owners of the property will be included as joint applicants on all applications
and all approvals will bind all owners. The violation of any owner as to any
tract will be deemed a violation as to all owners and all tracts.
            (2)   Minimum Area. Unless a specific standard is set, the
applicant will have the burden of establishing that the property is of
sufficient size and shape to be planned and developed as a unified whole
capable of meeting the objectives for which planned developments may be
established pursuant to this section.
            (3)   Covenants and Restrictions to be Enforceable by Village. All
covenants, deed restrictions, easements, and similar restrictions to be
recorded in connection with the planned development will provide that they may
not be modified, removed, or released without the express consent of the
Village Board and that they may be enforced by the village as well as by future
landowners within the proposed planned development.
            (4)   Public Open Space and Contributions. Whenever the
comprehensive plan or official map indicates that development of a planned
development will create a need for land for public purposes of the village
within the proposed planned development, the Village Board may require that
such area be designated and to the extent such need is specifically and
uniquely attributable to the proposed planned development, dedicated to the
village for such use. In addition, the Village Board may require evidence that
all requirements of village ordinances pertaining to the dedication of land or
the contribution of cash in connection with subdivisions or developments of
land have been met as respects the proposed planned development.
            (5)   Common Open Space.
               (a)   Amount, Location, and Use. The failure of a planned
development to provide common open space shall be considered to be an
indication that it has not satisfied the objectives for which planned
developments may be approved pursuant to this section. When common open space
is provided in a planned development, the amount and location of open space
will be consistent with its intended function as set forth in the application
and planned development plans. No open space will be used for the construction
of any structure or improvement except such structures and improvements as may
be approved in the final plan as appropriate to the intended leisure and
recreational uses for which the open space is intended.
               (b)   Preservation. Adequate safeguards, including recorded
covenants or dedication of development rights, will be provided to prevent the
subsequent use of common open space for any use, structure, improvement, or
development other than that shown on the approved final plan. The restrictions
must be permanent and not for a given period of years, and must run with the
land.
               (c)   Ownership and Maintenance. The final plan will include
such provisions for the ownership and maintenance of open space and
improvements as are reasonably necessary to ensure their continuity, care,
conservation, maintenance, and operation in accordance with predetermined
standards and to ensure that remedial measures will be available to the village
if such open space or improvements are permitted to deteriorate or are not
maintained in a condition consistent with the best interests of the planned
development or the village.
               (d)   Property Owners’ Association. When the requirements of
subsection
9-6-5  C.5.b.(5)(c) of this chapter are to be satisfied by the ownership or
maintenance of such open space or improvements by a property owners’
association, the association must meet each of the following standards:
                  i.   The by-laws and rules of the association and all
declarations, covenants, and restrictions to be recorded must be approved as
part of the final plan prior to becoming effective. Each document will provide
that it will not be amended in any manner that would result in it being in
violation of the requirements of this subparagraph.
                  ii.   The association must be established and all covenants
and restrictions recorded prior to the sale of any property within the area of
the planned development designated to have the exclusive use of the proposed
open space or improvements.
                  iii.   The association must be responsible for casualty and
liability insurance, taxes, and the maintenance of the open space and
improvements to be deeded to it.
                  iv.   Membership in the association must be mandatory for
each property owner, and any successive owner, having a right to the use or
enjoyment of such open space or improvements.
                  v.   Every property having a right to the use of enjoyment of
such open space or improvements must pay its pro rata share of the cost of the
association by means of an assessment to be levied by the association that
meets the requirements for becoming a lien on the property in accordance with
statutes of the State of Illinois.
                  vi.   The association must have the right to adjust the
assessment to meet changed needs. The membership vote required to authorize
such lean shall not be fixed at more than fifty-one percent (51%) of the
members voting on the issue.
                  vii.   The Village must be given the right to enforce the
covenants.
                  viii.   The Village must be given the right, after ten (10)
days’ written notice to the association, to perform any maintenance or repair
work that the association has neglected to perform, to assess the membership
for such work and to have a lien against the property of any member failing to
pay such assessment. For this purpose alone, the Village will have all the
rights and powers of the association and its governing body under the
agreements and declarations creating the association.
                  ix.   The association may not be dissolved without notice to
the zoning official and consent of the Village Board.
            (6)   Landscaping and Perimeter Treatment. Any area of a planned
development not used for structures or circulation elements shall be landscaped
or otherwise improved. The perimeter of the planned development shall be
treated so as to ensure compatibility with surrounding uses by means such as
provision of compatible uses and structures; setbacks; screening; or natural or
manmade buffers. Every planned development shall provide a perimeter landscaped
open space along each of its boundaries; each such open space shall have a
minimum depth equal to the minimum applicable yard required in the district in
which it is located.
            (7)   Private Streets. Private streets may be permitted in a
planned development provided that:
               (a)   The streets are treated as public streets and rights of
way for purposes of all setbacks, yards, and calculations under this title;
               (b)   Said streets shall be owned and maintained by a property
owners’ association meeting the requirements set forth in subsection
9-6-5  C.5.b.(5)(d) of this chapter; and
               (c)   A covenant shall be recorded against the property
acknowledging that the village will at no time be under any obligation to
provide maintenance for or accept dedication of the streets.
            (8)   Utilities. All utility lines shall be installed underground.
            (9)   Additional Standards for Specific Planned Developments. Where
the district regulations authorizing any planned development use in a
particular district impose additional standards to be met by a planned
development in that district, a special use permit for such development will
not be recommended or granted unless the applicant establishes compliance with
these additional standards.
      6.   Conditions on Planned Development Approvals. The approval of either
a development preliminary plan or a final plan may be conditioned on such
matters as the approving body may find necessary to prevent or minimize any
possible adverse effects of the proposed planned development; or to ensure its
compatibility with surrounding uses and development and its consistency with
the general purposes, goals, and objectives of this title, title 10 of the
village code, and the comprehensive plan. Such conditions shall be expressly
set forth in the ordinance or resolution granting the approval in question.
Violation of any such condition or limitation shall be a violation of this
title and shall constitute grounds for revocation of all approvals granted for
the planned development.
      7.   Affidavit of Compliance with Conditions; Fee. Whenever any planned
development approval granted pursuant to this section is made subject to
conditions or limitations to be met by the applicant, the applicant will, upon
meeting such conditions, file an unconditional agreement and consent with the
Village Clerk acknowledging and agreeing to these conditions and limitations.
The unconditional agreement and consent will be accompanied by a non-refundable
fee, to be fixed in each case by the Village Board, to recover the village’s
actual direct cost of an inspection to verify that such conditions and
limitations have been met.
      8.   Regulation During and Following Completion of Development. Following
final plan approval, in the event of an express conflict between the provisions
of the final plan and this title, the final plan will control. This title will
control in all other instances.
      9.   Inspections During Development.
         a.   Inspections by Village Board. Following approval of the final
plan of a planned development, or any stage thereof, the Village Board will, at
least annually until the completion of development, review all permits issued
and construction undertaken and compare actual development with the approved
plans for development and with the approved development schedule.
         b.   Action by Village Board. If the Village Board finds that
development is not proceeding in accordance with the approved schedule, or that
it fails in any other respect to comply with the final plan, the Village Board
will immediately notify the owner or applicant of such fact and may, if
necessary to protect the public health, safety, or welfare or to prevent
further violation of this title and the final plan, issue an order stopping any
and all work on the planned development until such time as any noncompliance is
cured.
         c.   Action by Village Board. Within sixty (60)-days following
notification by the Village Board, the Village Board will either:
            (1)   Take such steps as it deems necessary to compel compliance
with the final plan; or
            (2)   Require the owner or applicant to seek an amendment to the
final plan as provided in subsection
9-6-5  C.10.a. of this chapter.
      10.   Amendments to Final Plan During Development
         a.   Minor Amendment. During the development of a planned development,
the Zoning Officer may authorize minor amendments to the final plan when such
amendments appear necessary in light of the technical or engineering
considerations first discovered during actual development. Such minor
amendments will be consistent with the intent and purpose of this title and the
final plan as approved, will be the minimum necessary to overcome the
particular difficulty and shall not be approved if they would result in a
violation of any standard or requirement of this title. Such minor amendments
will be limited to the following:
            (1)   Altering the location of any one structure or group of
structures by not more than five feet (5') or one-fourth (1/4) of the distance
shown on the approved final plan between such structure or structures and any
other structure or any vehicular circulation element or any boundary of the
planned development, whichever is less;
            (2)   Altering the location of any circulation element by not more
than five feet (5') or one-fourth (1/4) of the distance shown on the approved
final plan between such circulation element and any structure, whichever is
less;
            (3)   Altering the location of any open space by not more than
twenty feet (20');
            (4)   Altering any final grade by not more than ten percent (10%)
of the originally planned grade; and
            (5)   Altering the location or type of landscaping elements;
            (6)   Altering the location of aboveground service facilities;
            (7)   Changes to building facades;
            (8)   The installation of emergency warning sirens;
            (9)   Alterations to, or the installation of, fencing;
            (10)   The installation of private generators, compressors,
condensers, storage tanks, and similar equipment;
            (11)   Alterations to approved landscaping plans;
            (12)   Alterations to approved signage;
            (13)   Installation of or alterations to refuse disposal areas,
rooftop mechanicals, traffic control gates, security guard shelters, and
sidewalks; and
            (14)   An alteration in the approved development schedule or
phasing plan.
         b.   Major Amendment. Any changes to the final plan not authorized by
subsection
9-6-5  C.10.a. will be considered to a major amendment and will be granted only
upon application to and approval by, the Village Board. The Village Board may,
by ordinance duly adopted, grant approval for a major change without a hearing
upon finding that any changes in the final plan as approved will be in
substantial conformity with said final plan. If the Village Board determines
that a major change is not in substantial conformity with the final plan as
approved, then the Village Board may refer the request to the Plan Commission
for further hearing, review, and recommendation.
      11.   Amendments to Final Plan Following Completion of Development. After
completion of a planned development, an approved final plan may be amended,
varied, or altered only pursuant to the procedures and subject to the standards
and limitations provided in this section for approval of the planned
development. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-6-6: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Authority. Except in the cases of uses and developments requiring a
special use permit pursuant to the provisions in this title, the Zoning Officer
may, as a matter of original jurisdiction and in accordance with the procedures
and standards set out in this section
9-6-6 , grant site plan approval to uses and developments requiring such
approval pursuant to subsection
9-6-6  C.1. In case of uses and developments requiring a special use permit
pursuant to subsection
9-6-5  B. or Section
9-6-5  C. of this chapter, and in cases of appeal from a denial of approval by
the Zoning Officer, the Plan Commission or Village Board may grant site plan
approval in accordance with the procedures and standards set out in this
section.
   B.   Purpose. The site plan review process recognizes that even those uses
and developments that have been determined to be generally suitable for
location in a particular district are capable of adversely affecting the
purposes for which this title was enacted unless careful consideration is given
to critical design elements. It is the purpose of this section to provide a
vehicle for the review of the developer’s attention to such elements.
   C.   Site Plan Review Required.
      1.   Zoning Officer review. Site plan review by the Zoning Officer in
accordance with this section will be required in connection with the following
developments:
         a.   Any multiple-family residential development located in the
village;
         b.   Any non-residential development located in the village; and
         c.   Any development containing a use identified in this title as
requiring site plan review.
      2.   Plan Commission Review. Site plan review by the Plan Commission in
accordance with this section will be required in connection with the following
developments:
         a.   Any proposed structure within the ORI or M-1 zoning districts
that is one hundred and fifty thousand (150,000) square-feet or greater and
either abuts a residentially zoned property or is located across a road or
unimproved right-of-way from a residentially zoned property;
         b.   Any site plan review by the Plan Commission may be sought in any
case of a denial of site plan approval by the Zoning Officer.
   D.   Parties Entitled to Seek Site Plan Approval. Application for site plan
review may be filed by the owner of, or any person having a contractual
interest in, the subject property.
   E.   Procedure.
      1.   Zoning Officer approvals.
         a.   Application. Applications for site plan approval by the Zoning
Officer will be filed in accordance with the requirements of subsection
9-6-2  C.6.l. of this chapter.
         b.   Action by Zoning Officer. Within thirty (30) days following
receipt by the Zoning Officer of a properly completed application, the Zoning
Officer will cause such application and the attached site plan to be reviewed,
in terms of the standards established by subsection
9-6-6  F. of this subsection. The Zoning Officer will then either:
            (1)   Approve the site plan as submitted;
            (2)   On the basis of written findings in accordance with
subsection
9-6-6  F. below, approve it subject to specific modification; or
            (3)   On the basis of such written findings, deny approval of the
site plan.
         c.   Zoning Officer decision. Immediately upon concluding review, the
Zoning Officer will return one (1) copy of the site plan to the applicant
marked to show either approval, approval subject to modification, which
modification will be clearly and permanently marked on such plans, or denial of
approval. The Zoning Officer will maintain a similarly marked set of such plans
in the Zoning Officer’s files for any further processing that may be required.
         d.   Failure to act. The failure of the Zoning Officer to act within
said thirty (30) days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree,
will be deemed to be a decision approving the site plan as submitted.
         e.   Effect of Zoning Officer’s action.
            (1)   The action of the Zoning Officer in approving a site plan or
in approving a site plan subject to modifications that are acceptable to the
applicant will constitute a final administrative action and will not be subject
to further review by, or appeal to, any Village Board or commission.
            (2)   The action of the Zoning Officer in denying an application
for site plan approval or in approving a site plan subject to modifications
that are not acceptable to the applicant (which action the applicant may treat
as a denial) will not be considered final action by the village but will only
be authorization for the applicant to seek approval of the site plan from the
Plan Commission by way of the appeal procedure set forth below.
         f.   Appeals. Within forty-five (45) days following a denial of site
plan approval by the Zoning Officer, the applicant may seek approval of the
site plan by filing an application for appeal to the Plan Commission in
accordance with the requirements of subsection 9-6-2 C.6.d. of this chapter;
provided that any such appeal will be processed in accordance with the
provisions of subsection
9-6-6  E.2. below.
      2.   Appellate jurisdiction.
         a.   Application. Applications for site plan approval by the Plan
Commission under its appellate jurisdiction must be filed in accordance with
the requirements of subsection
9-6-2  C.6.d. of this chapter. In cases where review is sought by way of an
appeal of a denial of site plan approval by the Zoning Officer, the application
for appeal must be filed within forty-five (45) days following such denial.
         b.   Action by Zoning Officer in appeal cases. Upon receipt of a
properly completed application for an appeal of a denial of site plan approval
by the Zoning Officer, the Zoning Officer will forthwith transmit to the Plan
Commission the application for appeal, the original application for site plan
approval, all papers constituting the record upon which the Zoning Officer’s
denial was based and a copy of the Zoning Officer's decision denying the
application for site plan approval.
         c.   Public meeting. The Zoning Officer will provide notice and the
Plan Commission will conduct a public meeting in accordance with subsection
9-6-2  E. of this chapter.
         d.   Action by Plan Commission.
            (1)   Within thirty-five (35) days following the conclusion of the
public meeting, the Plan Commission will, either approve the site plan and
design as submitted, make modifications acceptable to the applicant and approve
such modified site plan or approve or disapprove it in the manner hereinafter
specified.
            (2)   The failure of the Plan Commission to act within thirty-five
(35) days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, will be
deemed to be a decision denying site plan approval.
            (3)   The action of the Plan Commission in denying an application
for site plan and design approval or in approving a site plan subject to
modifications that are not acceptable to the applicant (which action the
applicant may treat as a denial) will not be considered final action by the
village but will only be authorization for the applicant to seek approval of
the site plan from the Village Board by way of the appeal procedure set forth
below.
         e.   Right to final appeal. Within forty-five (45) days following
denial of site plan approval by the Plan Commission, the applicant may seek
approval of the site plan by filing an application for appeal to the Village
Board consistent with the applicable requirements of subsection
9-6-2  C.6.d. of this chapter. Within thirty-five (35) days of receiving a
properly prepared and filed notice of appeal, including, without limitation,
all documents provided to the Plan Commission, the Village Board shall, without
further hearing, affirm, reverse, or modify the decision of the Plan
Commission. The failure of the Village Board to act within thirty-five (35)
days shall be deemed to be a final decision of the village denying the appeal
and affirming the decision of the Plan Commission. The decision of the Village
Board shall in all instances be considered a final decision.
   F.   Standards for site plan disapproval.
      1.   Standards. The Zoning Officer, Plan Commission, and the Village
Board will not disapprove a site plan submitted pursuant to this section except
on the basis of specific written findings directed to one or more of the
following standards:
         a.   The application is incomplete in specified particulars or
contains or reveals violations of this title or other applicable regulations
that the applicant has, after written request, failed or refused to supply or
correct.
         b.   The application is submitted in connection with another
application, the approval of which is a condition precedent to the necessity
for site plan review, and the applicant has failed to secure approval of that
application.
         c.   The site plan fails to adequately meet specified standards
required by this title with respect to the proposed use or development,
including special use standards, where applicable.
         d.   The proposed site plan or design interferes with easements or
rights-of-way.
         e.   The proposed site plan or design is unreasonably injurious or
detrimental to the use and enjoyment of surrounding property.
         f.   The proposed site plan or design creates undue traffic congestion
or hazards in the public streets, or the circulation elements of the proposed
site plan or design unreasonably create hazards to safety on or off site or
disjointed or inefficient pedestrian or vehicular circulation path on or off
site.
         g.   The screening of the site does not provide adequate shielding
from or for nearby uses.
         h.   The proposed site plan creates unreasonable drainage or erosion
problems or fails to fully and satisfactory integrate the site into the overall
existing and planned drainage system serving the village.
         i.   The proposed site plan places unwarranted or unreasonable burdens
on specified utility systems serving the site or area or fails to fully and
satisfactory integrate site utilities into the overall existing and planned
utility systems serving the village.
         j.   The proposed site plan or design does not provide for required
public uses designated on the official map.
         k.   The proposed site plan or design otherwise adversely affects the
public health, safety, or general welfare.
      2.   Alternative approaches. In citing any of the foregoing standards,
other than those of subsections
9-6-6  F.1.a. and
9-6-6  F.1.b., as the basis for disapproving a site plan, the Zoning Officer,
Plan Commission, or the Village Board may suggest alternative site plan
approaches that could be developed to avoid the specified deficiency or may
state the reasons why such deficiency cannot be avoided consistent with the
applicant’s objectives.
   G.   Effect of site plan approval.
      1.   Approval of a site plan will not authorize the establishment or
extension of any use nor the development, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, or moving of any building or structure, but will merely authorize
the preparation, filing, and processing of applications for any permits or
approvals that may be required by the codes and ordinances of the village,
including, without limitation, a certificate of zoning compliance, a building
permit, a certificate of occupancy, and subdivision approval.
      2.   A copy of every approved site plan will be filed with the Zoning
Officer and the development of the site will be in substantial conformity with
such approved and filed plan.
   H.   Limitations on site plan approval. Subject to an extension of time
granted by the Zoning Officer pursuant to subsection
9-6-1  B.12. of this chapter, no site plan approval will be valid for a period
longer than one (1) year unless a building permit is issued and construction is
actually begun within that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to
completion or unless a certificate of occupancy is issued and a use commenced
within that period.
   I.   Amendments to site plan or design during development.
      1.   Site plans approved by the Zoning Officer. During the development of
the site, the Zoning Officer will have authority to authorize any amendments to
a site plan approved by the Zoning Officer that the Zoning Officer could have
authorized in the course of the Zoning Officer’s original review.
      2.   Site plans approved by the Plan Commission or Village Board.
         a.   Minor amendments. During the development of the site, the Zoning
Officer may authorize minor amendments to a site plan or design approved by the
Plan Commission or Village Board under their appellate jurisdiction when such
amendments appear necessary in light of technical or engineering considerations
first discovered during actual development. Such minor amendments will be
consistent with the intent and purpose of this title and the site plan as
approved, will be the minimum necessary to overcome the particular difficulty
and will not be approved if they would result in a violation of any standard or
requirement of this title. Such minor amendments will be limited to the
following:
            (1)   Altering the location of any one structure or group of
structures by not more than five feet (5') or one-fourth (1/4) of the distance
shown on the approved site plan between such structure or structures and any
other structure or any vehicular circulation element or any boundary of the
site plan, whichever is less.
            (2)   Altering the location of any circulation element by not more
than five feet (5') or one-fourth (1/4) of the distance shown on the approved
site plan between such circulation element and any structure, whichever is
less.
            (3)   Altering the location of any open space by not more than
twenty feet (20').
            (4)   Altering any final grade by not more than ten percent of the
originally planned grade.
            (5)   Altering the location or type of landscaping elements.
         b.   Major amendments. Any amendment to a site plan approved by the
Plan Commission or Village Board under their appellate jurisdiction that is not
authorized by subsection
9-6-6  I.2.a above will be considered a major amendment and will be granted
only upon application to and approval by the Plan Commission or Village Board.
The Village Board may, by ordinance duly adopted, grant approval for major
amendment without referral to the Plan Commission upon finding that any changes
in the site plan as approved will be in substantial conformity with said plan.
   J.   Amendments to site plan following completion of development. After a
site is developed in accordance with an approved site plan, the approved site
plan may be amended, varied, or altered in the same manner and subject to the
same limitations as provided for the original approval of site plans. (Ord.
2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-6-7: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   General Enforcement Authority and Duty. Upon finding the existence of
any violation of this title, the Village Board and the Zoning Officer shall
have the authority and duty to take or direct all actions necessary or
appropriate to punish and abate such violation.
   B.   Stop and Cease-and-Desist Orders. Upon finding the existence of any
violation of this title, the Zoning Officer shall notify, in writing, the
person responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation
and ordering the action necessary to correct it; specifically, the Zoning
Officer shall order the discontinuance of any illegal use of land or
structures; the removal of illegal structures, additions or alterations; and
the discontinuance of illegal work being done.
   C.   Legal Actions. In the enforcement of this title, the Village Board
shall exercise all the powers authorized by the statutes of the State of
Illinois and the codes and ordinances of this village to ensure compliance
with, or to prevent or abate any violation of, the provisions of this title,
and in particular, shall, where necessary or appropriate, institute or cause to
be instituted by the village attorney in the name of the village any and all
actions, legal or equitable, including appeals, that may be required for the
enforcement of this title.
   D.   Abatement; Liens. The Village Board may order any work necessary to
abate any violation of this title and shall assess the cost of such work to the
property owner. Upon the failure of the owner to pay such cost, the Zoning
Officer shall file a lien for such costs, and for all costs of collection,
against the property in question where authorized by state statute.
   E.   Revocation of Permits. The violation of any provision of this title, or
of any permit or approval granted pursuant to it, or of any condition imposed
pursuant to it shall be grounds for the revocation of any rezoning, permit,
variation, or approval granted pursuant to this title and affecting the
property involved in the violation. The Zoning Officer may recommend, and the
Village Board may order such revocation; provided, however, where the original
rezoning permit, variation, or approval was granted following a public hearing
required pursuant to this title, the revocation shall be preceded by a similar
hearing.
   F.   Fines. In the enforcement of this title, the Zoning Officer shall,
where necessary and appropriate, order the issuance and enforcement of
citations to recover fines and penalties for the violation of this title as
authorized by state law and the village code. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
CHAPTER 7
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
9-7-1: General Parking and Loading Regulations
9-7-2: Design and Construction of Parking and Loading Facilities
9-7-3: Maintenance of Parking and Loading Facilities
9-7-4: General Parking Regulations
9-7-5: Schedule of Parking Requirements
9-7-6: Loading Regulations and Requirements
9-7-7: Traffic Control Gates
9-7-1: GENERAL PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for the safe and
efficient parking of vehicles in Woodridge. This will support needs of
residents' convenience and advance economic development in the Village by
meeting the parking needs of business uses. Effective parking regulations also
provide the benefits of mitigating congestion of the public streets and
promoting the safety and welfare of the public.
   B.   Applicability: The off street parking and loading provisions in this
Chapter shall apply as follows:
      1.   For all structures erected, use of structures, or uses of land
established after the effective date of this Title,    accessory parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required by the regulations of the
zoning district in which such buildings or uses are located.
      2.   Any parking or loading facility constructed shall meet the
requirements of the Title.
      3.   Increased Intensity of Existing Use or Structure:
         a.   When the use of any building, structure or premises is increased
or expanded through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, increased
intensity of use, or other units of measurement specified in this Chapter for
required parking or loading facilities, additional parking and loading
facilities shall be provided for that increase in intensity as required in this
Chapter.
         b.   When such building, structure or premises was lawfully
established prior to the effective date of this Title, additional parking or
loading facilities shall not be required unless and until the activity
increases the additional required parking requirement by fifteen percent (15%)
or more, as measured by the requirements existing prior to the effective date
of this Title. If the requirement exceeds fifteen percent (15%), parking or
loading facilities as required by this Chapter shall be provided.
      4.   Existing accessory off street parking or loading facilities shall
not be reduced below the requirements of this Title. If the parking provided is
already less than required, the amount of parking shall not be reduced further.
      5.   Damage or Destruction:
         a.   Any conforming structure damaged by fire, collapse, explosion or
other cause, that is reestablished by repair or reconstruction, shall be
provided with accessory off street parking and loading facilities equivalent
to, at least, that amount of parking and loading facilities that existed at the
time of such damage.
         b.   In the event such structure is damaged or destroyed beyond fifty
percent (50%) of its replacement value, sufficient off-street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required by this Chapter as if the
facility were newly built.
         c.   Any nonconforming structure damaged by fire, collapse, explosion
or other cause, that is reestablished by repair or reconstruction, shall be
provided with accessory off street parking and loading facilities as required
by this Chapter as if the facility were newly built. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-7-2: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES:
The design and construction of off street parking and loading areas shall
conform to the standards contained in this Chapter and other relevant sections
of the Village Code.
   A.   Submission of Site Plan: Any application for a building permit or for a
certificate of occupancy where no building permit is required shall include a
fully dimensioned site plan drawn to a scale as specified by the Zoning
Officer.
   B.   Site Plan Requirements. Any parking site plan submitted as required by
this Section shall indicate:
      1.   Location of any parking or loading facilities,
      2.   Driveways, to be provided in compliance with the provisions of this
Title and Village Code,
      3.   Ingress and egress to the area,
      4.   Traffic patterns on adjacent street,
      5.   A landscape plan; and
      6.   Additional information may be required by the Zoning Officer. NOTE:
The Zoning Officer may waive required site plan submittal elements that they
find unnecessary to complete a full review of the site plan.
   C.   Preparation of Plans: All plans provided in conjunction with the
construction of accessory off street parking and loading required by this
Chapter shall be prepared by an Illinois registered professional engineer,
registered architect, or landscape architect.
   D.   Size and Geometrics: The size and configuration of off street parking
facilities shall be in accordance with the standards as shown on Table 1 of
this Section.
   E.   Driveway and Drive Aisle Standards. Driveway and drive aisle
configuration and type of construction shall be in accordance with Table 2 of
this Section.
   F.   Pavement Standards: Type of construction for parking lots shall be in
accordance with the Standards and Specifications Manual [needs reference
location].
Table 1: Parking Layout Dimensions
Degree Of Angle of Space to Drive Aisle 45°      60°      90°
                                        (in feet) (in feet) (in feet)
Table 1: Parking Layout Dimensions
Degree Of Angle of Space to Drive Aisle   45°      60°      90°
                                          (in feet) (in feet) (in feet)
A.   Stall width, parallel to drive ais12.7      10.4      9.0
B.   Stall length of line              27.0      23.2      18.0
C.   Stall depth to wall               19.1      20.1      18.0
D.   Drive aisle width (between stall  13.0      18.0      24.0
lines)
E.   Stall depth, interlock            15.9      17.8      18.0
F.   Module, wall to interlock (C+D+E) 48.0      55.9      60.0
G.   Module, interlocking (D+2E)       44.8      53.6      60.0
H.   Module, interlock to curb face    46.6      54.2      58.0
(D+E+L)
I.   Bumper overhang (measured 90° to 1.4       1.7       2.0
curb)
J.   One-way drive aisle               13.0      18.0      24.0
K.   Two-way drive aisle               24.0      24.0      24.0
L.   Stall depth to curb (C-I)         17.7      18.4      16.0
Notes:
   1.   Parking lots shall be bordered with IDOT type B6:12 curb and gutter.
   2.   Parking spaces located in parking structures and parking spaces
designated for employee use only may be not less than eight and a half feet
(8.5') wide for ninety degree (90°) parking.
   3.   If a two foot (2') bumper overhang is to be utilized, the parking space
length may be reduced to sixteen feet (16') for ninety (90°) parking.
   4.   Parallel parking stalls shall measure ten feet (10') by twenty-three
feet (23') with a twelve foot (12') drive aisle.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3245.png]
 
Table 2: Two Way Driveway Dimensions
TWO-WAY DRIVEWAY DIMENSIONS 1
               Width On Private     Width Measured at
               Property at Street   Street Curb Line                Minimum
Type Of        Right-Of-Way Lines                         Curb2     Ingress and
Development                                               Require d Egress Curb
               Minimu m Maximum     Minimu m Maximum                Radius


                                             28 ft. or
                        22 ft. or            30% of lot
Single-unit             30% of lot           width plus 6
residential    10 ft.   width (up   16 ft.   ft.          No        N/a
uses                    to 30 ft.)           (up to 36
                        whichever            ft.)
                        is greater4          whichever is
                                             greater4
Multi-unit
residential
uses and       24 ft.   35 ft.      N/a                   Yes       25 ft.
nonresidential
uses
Notes:
   1.   One-way driveway is permitted having a minimum width of fifteen feet
(15') and minimum inside turning radius of twenty-five feet (25'). One-way
driveway shall increase to twenty-two feet (22') at the back of street curbs.
   2.   Curb shall be IDOT type B6:12 curb and gutter.
   3.   Drive-through vehicle reservoir/stacking lanes shall have a minimum
width of ten feet (10').
   4.   Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to the contrary,
existing driveways constructed prior to May 8, 1986, which are not in
conformance with the driveway dimensions for single-family residential uses as
set forth in the table above, may be repaired or reconstructed to a width which
is no greater than the width of the existing driveway, or thirty feet (30') at
the right-of-way and thirty-six feet (36') at the street curb, whichever is
less.
   5.   The minimum width of a driveway at any point shall not be less than ten
feet (10') for a single-family residential use.
 
TABLE 3: Minimum Pavement Construction Requirements
MINIMUM PAVEMENT CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
Type Of Development Parkway Flexible Rigid Private Property Flexible Rigid
TABLE 3: Minimum Pavement Construction Requirements
MINIMUM PAVEMENT CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
Type Of         Parkway       Rigid           Private Property Rigid
Development     Flexible                      Flexible
Residentially   3" bituminous 6" Portland     2" bituminous    5" Portland
zoned districts concrete      cement concrete concrete         cement concrete
containing 4 or 8" crushed    3" crushed      8" crushed stone 3" crushed stone
less units      stone         stone
Residentially   3" bituminous 6" Portland
zoned districts concrete      cement concrete 3" bituminous    6" Portland
containing more 8" crushed    3" crushed      concrete         cement concrete
than four (4)   stone         stone           8" crushed stone 3" crushed stone
units
Business,       3" bituminous 7" Portland     3" bituminous
office and      concrete      cement concrete concrete         8" Portland
light           10" crushed   3" crushed      10" crushed      cement concrete
industrial      stone         stone           stone            3" crushed stone
zoned districts
                3" bituminous 8" Portland     3" bituminous    8" Portland
Manufacturing   concrete      cement concrete concrete         cement concrete
                10" crushed   3" crushed      10" crushed      3" crushed stone
                stone         stone           stone
Notes:
   1.   Two inch (2") bituminous concrete shall be surface course class I.
   2.   Three inch (3") bituminous concrete shall be two (2) inches of binder
coarse and one inch (1") surface coarse class I.
   3,   Crushed stone shall be CA-6 grade compacted in not more than four inch
(4") thick layer.
   4.   Reserved.
   5.   Brick pavers may be used for driveway surfaces in lieu of Portland
cement or bituminous asphalt materials in accordance with the following design
standards.
   6.   Brick paver depth = eight centimeters (8 cm.).
      Base = one inch (1") sand and eight inches (8") crushed stone.
 
   G.   Access:
      1.   Each required off street parking space shall open directly to a
drive aisle as specified in Table 1 and as may be required by Title 10:
Subdivisions of the Village Code.
      2.   All off street parking facilities shall be designed with safe,
efficient, and appropriate means of vehicular access to a dedicated street and
be designed in such a manner as will least interfere with the movement of
traffic.
      3.   Every parking space located adjacent to a pedestrian doorway shall
provide adequate distance from the edge of any parking space or vehicle
overhang to the outside of a pedestrian doorway.
   H.   Drainage:
      1.   All off street parking areas constructed for the purposes of parking
five (5) or more vehicles shall be drained utilizing underground storm sewers,
barrier curb and gutter and other necessary appurtenances.
      2.   The design of all storm sewer facilities and curb and gutter shall
comply with the village standards found in Title 10: Subdivisions of the
Village Code.
      3.   All storm water detention shall be accomplished in accordance with
Article L: Stormwater Management Regulations of the Village Code.
   I.   Slopes: For all parking lots, drive aisles and driveways, whether
constructed on public parkways or private property, the minimum and maximum
allowable vertical slopes shall be one percent (1%) and five percent (5%)
respectively, excluding single-family homes which may have a maximum allowable
vertical slope for driveways of eight percent (8%) and parking deck ramps,
which may have a maximum allowable vertical slope of twelve percent (12%).
   J.   Lighting. All illumination in parking and loading facilities shall be
directed or shielded away from residential properties and public streets such
that the light source is not visible from the property line. Lighting
associated with parking and loading facilities shall not exceed one (1) foot
candle measured at the property line. No lighting used to illuminate off-street
parking and loading facilities shall create a nuisance as defined by the
Village Code.
      1.   All lighting shall be recessed, shielded or cut off fixtures, with a
cut off angle of ninety degrees (90°) or less as shown below.
      2.   All lighting system designs shall be part of the Site Plan Review
process.
   K.   Parking Space and Drive Aisle Designation:
      1.   Parking spaces shall be designated with a painted stripe to define
each parking space and be a minimum of four inches (4”) in width for the length
of each parking space.
      2.   The direction of traffic in drive aisles or driveways to and from
public rights of way for non-single unit residential development shall be
designated with a painted arrow or other indication of direction as may be
approved by the Zoning Officer.
   L.   Construction Specifications: All work shall be done in accordance with
the applicable provisions of the "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction", adopted by the Illinois department of transportation, October 1,
1979, as may be amended. All bituminous concrete shall consist of bituminous
concrete surface class I modified or bituminous concrete binder course class I.
All topsoil shall be removed prior to the construction of the pavement. All
fill shall consist of granular material or clay and shall be compacted to a
density of at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the ASTM modified proctor.
   M.   Safe Pedestrian Access:
      1.   All parking lots with two (2) or more double- loaded rows must
provide dedicated pedestrian walkways within the parking area.
      2.   The walkway must be a minimum of five feet (5’) wide.
      3.   One walkway is required for every two (2) double loaded aisles;
      4.   The walkway must be located so as to serve the maximum number of
parking stalls;
      5.   All walkways must meet ADA accessibility requirements;
      6.   All parking lots must include walkways that provide direct
connections to building entrances from the spaces furthest from the entrance.
At least one (1) walkway must provide a direct connection between the building
entrances and the adjacent public rights-of-way and associated sidewalk.
      7.   All pedestrian walkways must be clearly marked with high-visibility
striping or alternative materials as approved by the Zoning Officer as being
equally visible and effective at promoting pedestrian safety. Where walkways
cross a drive aisle, the walkway must have a continuous surface treatment
across the drive aisle.
   N.   Bicycle Parking:
      1.   All nonresidential developments providing automobile parking
facilities shall provide bicycle parking facilities (bike racks) at a ratio of
at least one (1) bicycle parking space for every ten (10) automobile parking
spaces.
      2.   Multi-family developments shall provide interior bicycle parking
facilities for building residents at a ratio of at least one (1) bicycle
parking space for every three (3) dwelling units. Such bicycle parking
facilities must be provided near the building entrance accessible to the
street.
      3.   No development required to have bicycle parking shall have fewer
than three (3) bicycle parking spaces or be required to exceed ten (10) bicycle
parking spaces.
      4.   Required bicycle parking facilities for nonresidential developments
shall be located within fifty (50) feet from the building entrance or at least
as close as the closest automobile space.
      5.   The style of bicycle parking facility (bike rack) shall be approved
by the Zoning Officer to ensure security and safety of bicyclists, pedestrians,
and motorists.
   O.   Drive Through Facilities and Stacking Spaces: To support safe on-site
circulation for drivers and pedestrians, and to minimize potential impact on
off-site traffic flow, all drive-through facilities and other land uses that
require stacking of vehicles, whether new or added to existing structures,
shall meet the requirements of this section and the Village Code.
      1.   Required Number of Stacking Spaces:
         a.   Food Service Establishments: Five (5) spaces at and prior to an
order board, and three (3) additional spaces after the ordering position, which
may include the space at the delivery window. Two (2) additional stacking
spaces should be provided for every additional order screen. If there are no
order screens, just three (3) spaces must be provided.
         b.   Financial Institutions (teller or automated services lanes):
three (3) spaces per lane, which may include the space at the service window or
machine.
         c.   Car Wash Automated – principal use: Ten (10) spaces approaching
the wash structure, five (5) spaces post washing to allow for drying.
         d.   Car Wash Automated – accessory use: Five (5) spaces approaching
the wash structure.
         e.   Car Wash Manual – Two (2) spaces approaching each wash bay.
      2.   Design of Drive Through Facilities and Stacking Spaces:
         a.   Vehicle access to and from stacking lanes shall not interfere
with use of on-site parking or impact safe pedestrian travel on a site.
         b.   Stacking lanes shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in width and
nineteen feet (19’) in length.
         c.   Drive-throughs shall be designed with a “escape lane”, or
comparable alternative, that allows drivers to exit the site or to opt out of
the drive through lane without having to remain in the drive-through lane.
         d.   Access to and from stacking lanes shall be readily identified
with means such as signs, pavement markings and or curbing.
         e.   Stacking lanes within twenty-five feet (25’) of a residential use
or residential zoning district shall provide visual screening and sound
attenuation as defined through the site plan review and special use processes.
         f.   Drive-through ordering boards, intercoms and related
appurtenances shall not be located between the principal structure and the
front lot line of the property.
         g.   Drive-through stacking lanes located between the principal
structure and the front lot line of the property shall be screened to mitigate
views from the right of way.
   P.   Joint Parking Facilities: Off street parking spaces required for any
building or use may be located off the premises served, but not across an
arterial street, only when combined into a joint parking facility serving two
(2) or more separate buildings or uses. Joint parking facilities may be
privately or publicly owned. The nearest point of a joint parking facility
shall lie within four hundred feet (400') of the nearest point of the premises
served. The Plan Commission may recommend to the mayor and Village Board the
total amount of parking spaces required for all buildings and uses to be served
by such joint parking facility. The applicant shall provide such evidence as is
acceptable to the village's legal counsel evidencing the applicant's right to
utilize any joint parking facility. Application for the approval of a joint
parking facility shall be made to the Plan Commission. Joint parking facilities
may only be permitted upon the recommendation of the Plan Commission and
approval of the Village Board. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-7-3: MAINTENANCE OF PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES:
   A.   Shared Parking in all districts except ORI and RBC.
      1.   Shared Parking on Multiple Properties: Shared parking allows for
off-street parking requirements to be satisfied by sharing parking spaces
between two (2) or more non-residential properties or uses on a single property
with different peak-hour parking demands sharing parking spaces to satisfy
parking requirements. The Zoning Officer may approve shared parking under the
following conditions:
         a.   Eligible Uses. Shared parking is allowed among different use
types or among uses with different hours of operation. Only those properties
having and able to maintain parking in excess of minimum parking requirements
may participate in shared parking arrangements.
         b.   Ineligible Uses. Accessible parking spaces (for persons with
disabilities) may not be shared and must be located on-site.
         c.   Location. Shared parking spaces shall be located within seven
hundred and fifty feet (750') of the primary entrance of all uses served,
unless shuttle bus service is provided to the parking lot.
         d.   Shared Parking Study. Applicants wishing to use shared parking as
a means of satisfying parking requirements shall submit a shared parking
analysis to the Zoning Officer to demonstrate shared parking feasibility. The
analysis shall indicate the size and type of the proposed or existing
development, the composition of tenants, the anticipated rate of parking
turnover and the anticipated peak parking and traffic for all uses that will be
sharing parking spaces.
         e.   Agreement. Applicants shall provide a shared parking agreement in
a form approved by the Village Attorney and executed by the parties
establishing the shared parking spaces and the Village of Woodridge. Shared
parking privileges will continue in effect only while the agreement remains in
force. Should the agreement end for any reason, parking must be provided as
otherwise required within this Article. Shared parking agreements shall be
recorded for all properties involved in the agreement with Recorder of Deeds of
the County in which the properties are located.
      2.   Shared Parking on a Single Property except in ORI and RBC.
Cumulative parking requirements for properties with multiple occupancies in
nonresidential zoning districts may be reduced where it can be determined that
the peak requirement of the multiple occupancies occur at different times
during the day. For a shared parking arrangement, the Zoning Officer may make
an administrative adjustment that reduces the off-street parking requirements
for each participating commercial property. To approve such an administrative
adjustment, the Zoning Officer shall find:
         a.   Convenient, safe, accessible and visible pedestrian connections
are located between the facilities and all of the shared properties.
         b.   The shared parking spaces are located within seven hundred and
fifty feet (750') walking distance of each of the uses, as measured from the
entrance of each use to the nearest shared parking space.
         c.   The commercial properties do not have the same hours of
operation, for example:
            (1)   Business 1: Monday to Friday: open nine o’clock (9:00) a.m.
to five thirty (5:30) p.m., closed Saturday, Sunday.
            (2)   Business 2: Monday to Saturday: open eleven o’clock (11:00)
a.m. to seven o’clock (7:00) p.m., closed Sunday.
         d.   Applicants have provided a shared parking agreement in a form
approved by the Village attorney and executed by the parties establishing the
shared parking spaces.
      3.   Shared Parking regulations in the RBC and ORI Districts:
         a.   In the ORI zoning district, when two (2) or more uses are located
on the same lot or within the same building, parking areas equal in number to
the sums of the separate requirements for each such use shall be provided. No
parking space or portion thereof shall serve as a required space for more than
one use unless combined into a Joint Parking Facility. In mixed use
developments, uses with different peak hour demand may share the same parking
spaces. A reduction of up to twenty-five percent (25%) of the total required
parking for the individual uses may be allowed for a shared use situation. The
petitioners must complete and submit to the Plan Commission an analysis and
substantial projection of peak hour parking demand for the entire development
to justify the sharing of parking spaces for separate uses. Such reduction with
respect to mixed uses shall only be permitted upon recommendation of the Plan
Commission and approval of the Village Board.
         b.   For ORI lots in the zoning district with more than one use, a
reduction of up to thirty percent (30%) of the total required parking spaces
for individual uses is allowed if shared access to such spaces is demonstrated
by easement or covenant of record, and the village zoning officer approves of
such reduction. The area required to accommodate the number of parking spaces
required without the reduction shall be reserved as open space. If, at any
point, the village zoning officer determines that those spaces are necessary,
the property owner is required to develop those parking spaces.
         c.   In the RBC zoning district, when two (2) or more uses are located
on the same lot or within the same building, parking areas equal in number to
the sums of the separate requirements for each such use shall be provided. No
parking space or portion thereof shall serve as a required space for more than
one use unless combined into a Joint Parking Facility. In mixed use
developments, uses with different peak hour demand may share the same parking
spaces. A reduction of up to twenty-five percent (25%) of the total required
parking for the individual uses may be allowed for a shared use situation. The
petitioners must complete and submit to the Plan Commission an analysis and
substantial projection of peak hour parking demand for the entire development
to justify the sharing of parking spaces for separate uses. Such reduction with
respect to mixed uses shall only be permitted upon recommendation of the Plan
Commission and approval of the Village Board.
         d.   For RBC Zoning Lots with more than one use, a reduction of up to
thirty percent (30%) of the total required parking spaces for individual uses
is allowed if shared access to such spaces is demonstrated by easement or
covenant of record, and the village zoning officer approves of such reduction.
The area required to accommodate the number of parking spaces required without
the reduction shall be reserved as open space. If, at any point, the village
zoning officer determines that those spaces are necessary, the property owner
is required to develop those parking spaces.
      4.   Joint Parking Facilities: Off street parking spaces required for any
building or use may be located off the premises served, but not across an
arterial street when combined into a joint parking facility serving two (2) or
more separate buildings or uses. Joint parking facilities may be privately or
publicly owned. The nearest point of a joint parking facility shall lie within
four hundred feet (400') of the nearest point of the premises served. The Plan
Commission may recommend to the mayor and Village Board the total amount of
parking spaces required for all buildings and uses to be served by such joint
parking facility. The applicant shall provide such evidence as is acceptable to
the village's legal counsel evidencing the applicant's right to utilize any
joint parking facility. Application for the approval of a joint parking
facility shall be made to the Plan Commission. Joint parking facilities may
only be permitted upon the recommendation of the Plan Commission and approval
of the Village Board.
   B.   Landbanked Parking:
      1.   Landbanked Parking Authorized: The Woodridge Board of Trustees may
authorize to be landbanked up to fifty percent (50%) of the off street parking
spaces required for uses in the RBC, ORI, and M-1 zoning districts and up to
twenty- five percent (25%) of the off street parking spaces required for uses
in the A-1, A-2, B-1, B-2 or B-3 zoning districts. Landbanked parking spaces
shall be left as lawn or a landscaped area which can readily be converted into
parking facilities. Landbanked parking areas shall not count toward the minimum
landscaped area required on the site.
      2.   Landbanked Parking Calculations: The calculation of maximum
landbanked parking which may be permitted shall be as follows:
         a.   All Buildings: The calculation of landbanked parking shall be
based on the parking table and the use(s) proposed for the site. Prior to the
issuance of any building permits, the applicant shall provide in writing to the
Zoning Officer the total square footage of the use(s) for the site.
         b.   Speculative Buildings: The calculation of landbanked parking for
buildings without identified tenants at the time of construction shall be
estimated. Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the applicant shall
provide the Zoning Official a detailed estimate of parking requirements for the
site, for which the Village may allow reduced parking and a landbanked area to
be provided. Prior to the issuance of an interior building permit, the tenant
shall submit information, such as a parking study, as to the highest expected
number of employees and guests for the proposed use that may be on the property
at one time so the landbanked parking can be reevaluated. This calculation
shall consider peak hours of operation and shift changes.
      3.   Landbanked Parking Plans Required: At the time of Site Plan Review
for the property in question, the required plans shall indicate the proposed
landbanked parking area. A preliminary design for providing parking on the
landbanked area shall be provided as part of that submittal to indicate that
all required parking can later be constructed on the landbanked area in a safe
and logical manner.
      4.   Landbanked Parking Agreement: The applicant shall provide the
Village a landbanked parking agreement, in a form approved by the Village
Attorney. Once approved by the Village Board of Trustees, the agreement shall
be recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of the County in which the property is
located.
      5.   Termination of Landbanked Parking: As shall be stated in the
landbanked parking agreement, the landbanked parking shall be terminated when
either:
         a.   The owner of the property with an approved landbanked parking
agreement chooses to construct parking on the landbanked parking area. Such
parking area shall be constructed in keeping all requirements for off street
parking contained in this Title and the Village Code.
         b.   The property owner is notified by the Zoning Officer that they
are required to construct some or all of the required parking. Permit plans for
such construction shall be provided to the Village within thirty (30) days and
construction completed within thirty (30) days of issuing a permit during
construction season. The Zoning Officer may use the following events to
determine if the landbanked parking should be constructed:
            (1)   Upon inspection and determination that utilization of
constructed parking spaces has averaged more than ninety percent (90%) of the
parking spaces provided (exclusive of handicapped spaces), and/or that overflow
parking on streets, lawns or adjacent lots resulted on two (2) or more
occasions within any one-year time period after the issuance of a final
certificate of occupancy for the property in question; or
            (2)   The building(s) or use(s) upon the property in question is
(are) changed or expanded and the Zoning Officer, upon review and
reconsideration of the parking demand, determines that some or all of the
landbanked parking spaces are required to meet the new predicted parking demand
for the property in question. Additional required spaces (over and above the
number of spaces landbanked) and/or a new landbanked parking agreement may be
required by the expansion or change in use.
   C.   Cross Access Easements: Where parking lots for separate and compatible
commercial, industrial, or multi-unit residential uses are adjacent to one
another and the opportunity for connected cross-access exists, such access is
encouraged. Cross-access should be done in a logical manner that results in
safe and efficient circulation between adjacent parking facilities.
   D.   Accessible Parking:
      1.   ADA Compliance. All Off-Street Parking Areas must comply with the
State of Illinois Accessibility Code and the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990 (ADA) concerning the number and design of accessible vehicle parking
spaces required in parking lots and structures.
      2. Required Spaces. Parking spaces for persons with disabilities shall be
provided in all off-street Parking Areas where parking is provided for
employees, visitors or both, with the exception of single family detached and
townhomes uses. The number of accessible parking spaces shall be included in
the total number of required parking spaces and shall be in accordance with the
applicable requirements of the Illinois Accessibility Code, as amended from
time to time, and all additional governing codes and applicable laws.
      3.   Dimensions and Design. Such spaces shall comply with the design
standards presented in the State of Illinois Accessibility Code, provided that
in no instance shall the width of any one (1) space be less than sixteen (16)
feet, nor the length less than twenty (20) feet. Such spaces shall be
identified by a sign and pavement markings indicating parking for persons with
disabilities only. Such spaces shall be the spaces closest to the entrance of
the building or structure, and shall be connected by a paved surface designed
to provide safe and easy access. Such spaces shall otherwise be in accordance
with the Illinois Vehicle Code.
      4.   Table 3: Accessible Parking Space Requirements (Source:
www.IllinoisAttorneyGeneral.gov).
Table 3: Accessible Parking Spaces
Total Off-Street Parking Spaces # of Accessible Parking Spaces Required
Provided
Table 3: Accessible Parking Spaces
Total Off-Street Parking Spaces # of Accessible Parking Spaces Required
Provided
1 to 25*                        1*
26 to 50*                       2*
51 to 75*                       3*
76 to 100*                      4*
101 to 150*                     5*
151 to 200*                     6*
201 to 300*                     7*
301 to 400*                     8*
401 to 500*                     9*
501 to 1,000*                   2% of Total Number*
Over 1,000*                     20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000*
Rehab facilities and outpatient 20% of total number of parking spaces*
physical therapy
Outpatient hospital facilities  10% of total number*
*   Any update to State of Illinois or National regulations regarding
Accessible Parking shall supersede these requirements.
 
   E.   Maintenance Requirements: The owner and/or occupant of business,
commercial, office, research, industrial uses or multiple-family uses of six
(6) dwelling units or greater shall be responsible for the maintenance of all
driveways and parking and loading facilities serving such use, including such
portions located in public rights of way. All pavement that represents a hazard
to vehicular or pedestrian travel shall be repaired.
      1.   The Village shall notify the property owner and/or occupant of any
violations of this Subsection requiring repair. Such notification shall
indicate the nature of the hazard and an amount of time given to correct same.
Time to comply shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) days during the
construction season. Upon receipt of said notice, the property owner and/or
occupant shall notify the zoning officer in writing of plans for corrective
action. The property owner and/or occupant shall identify the areas of pavement
to be removed and replaced by marking with painted lines or arrows. An
inspection may be performed by the Zoning Officer of areas to be replaced prior
to the repairs being initiated, if indicated on the violation notice described
here.
      2.   Hazards shall be defined as including, but not limited to, one or
more of the following:
         a.   A pothole three inches (3") or more in depth covering one square
yard or more in area. Potholes must be repaired within the time frame indicated
on the notice of violation. During winter months a temporary patch must be
provided and maintained until permanent repairs can be performed. Materials
used for cold patching must be approved by the zoning officer.
         b.   A rut two inches (2") or more in depth.
         c.   A fault with a one inch (1") or greater difference in elevation.
         d.   A crack one-half inch (1/2") or greater in width.
         e.   Settlement or sinking one inch (1") or greater in depth.
         f.   Disintegration covering a one square yard or greater area or any
other condition that is determined by the zoning officer to be a hazard. (Ord.
2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-7-4: GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Residential Boundary Line: Trucks having a capacity of twelve thousand
(12,000) pounds gross vehicle weight or greater used in conjunction with the
operation of any use permitted in nonresidential zoning districts shall not be
parked or stored outdoors within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a residential
zoning district boundary line between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   B.   Commercial Vehicles: Where permitted, all commercial vehicles shall be
parked completely within the striped lines designating the approved parking
space. Trucks and trailers shall be parked only within docks, striped loading
areas, or such spaces specifically striped and designated as truck parking on
an approved site plan.
   C.   Parking and Storage of Commercial and Recreational Vehicles:
      1.   In Residential Zoning Districts:
         a.   Commercial vehicles bearing a designation of class B under
provisions of paragraph 5/3-815 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes shall be
permitted to be parked, provided that they meet the applicable parking and
storage provisions contained elsewhere in this title.
         b.   The outdoor storage or parking of any vehicles requiring a State
of Illinois vehicle license other than a class B (except recreational
vehicles), any vehicle in excess of eight thousand (8,000) pounds as regulated
by the State of Illinois, or buses designed for more than sixteen (16)
occupants, is prohibited within all residential zoning districts. However, this
requirement shall not apply to vehicles engaged in relocations, deliveries,
repairs, construction, maintenance, or service calls between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
         c.   Outdoor storage or parking of commercial vehicles used to
transport individuals for hire (taxicab, limousine, or other type of similar
vehicle) shall be limited to one such vehicle per property at any time. This
limitation shall not apply to or include personal vehicles used to transport
individuals for hire (such as Uber of Lyft). Commercial vehicles used to
transport people for hire and a vehicle having a class B state vehicle license
or greater may not be stored or parked on a property at the same time.
         d.   Off street parking shall not be located in any front yard, except
that off street parking accessory to single-unit or multiple-unit dwelling may
be located on any driveway serving such dwellings, unless otherwise prohibited
by this Code.
         e.   Off street parking shall not be located in any side or rear
yards; except, that off street parking accessory to single-unit and multiple-
unit dwellings may be located in an enclosed garage or on any driveway serving
such dwellings, unless otherwise provided by this Code.
         f.   Parking of Recreational Vehicles
            (1)   Only one of the following:
               (a)   One (1) recreational vehicle;
               (b)   One (1) boat;
               (c)   Two (2) off-road vehicles or personal watercraft on a
trailer; or
               (d)   One (1) trailer, may be parked or stored in any required
interior side or rear yard on a lot used for single-family purposes.
      At no time may any of these vehicles be occupied.
            (2)   No recreational vehicle, boat, off road vehicle or personal
watercraft on a trailer, or trailer may be parked or stored:
               (a)   In any required front or exterior side yard;
               (b)   Between the principal structure and the front lot
               (c)   Between the principal structure and any exterior side lot
line.
            (3)   No recreational vehicle, boat, off road vehicle or personal
watercraft, or trailer parked (inclusive of its load), stored or located on any
single-family residential lot may exceed nine feet (9') in height (measured
from the underside of the tire to the top of the vehicle or load) or exceed
twenty feet (20’) in length.
            (4)   Notwithstanding the other requirements of this subsection,
the Zoning Officer may grant a permit allowing the temporary parking or storage
of one (1) recreational vehicle or boat that exceeds the size limitations set
forth in this subsection. Such permit may be issued provided that the vehicle
is parked on the driveway of a lot used for a single-unit dwelling, is parked
there for a period not to exceed ten (10) days in any consecutive thirty (30)
day period.
      2.   In Business and Industrial Zoning Districts:
         a.   Off street storage of commercial vehicles shall not be located in
any front yard
         b.   Off street storage of commercial vehicles shall only be located
in side or rear yards, and is subject to screening requirements as provided for
in this Title.
         c.   In the ORI and RBC zoning districts, a commercial vehicle shall
be considered to be "stored" if it remains on a parcel for more than seventy-
two (72) consecutive hours.
         d.   In the B-1, B-2, B-3 zoning districts, the following standards
shall apply:
            (1)   Commercial vehicles having a capacity of less than twelve
thousand (12,000) pounds gross vehicle weight used in conjunction with the
operation of any permitted use may only be parked and/or stored on the property
where the use permitted is located.
            (2)   Commercial vehicles having a capacity of twelve thousand
(12,000) pounds gross vehicle weight or greater shall not be stored, parked, or
otherwise permitted to stand in any business zoning district unless engaged in
loading/unloading operations, unless otherwise regulated in this Title. (Ord.
2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-7-5: SCHEDULE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The number of accessory off-street parking spaces provided for all
properties shall be based on the standards set in this section.
      1.   Computation:
         a.   Parking requirements calculated on square footage, shall be based
Net Floor Area (NFA) as defined in this Title.
         b.   When the required number of off street parking spaces results in
a fractional space, any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded
while a fraction greater than one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking
space.
      2.   Uses Not Listed in Table 4: For uses not listed in Table 4 Schedule
of Parking Requirements, parking spaces shall be provided on the same basis as
required for the most similar listed use, as determined by the Zoning Officer.
Table 4: Off Street Parking Requirements
LAND USE PARKING REQUIRED
Table 4: Off Street Parking Requirements
LAND USE        PARKING REQUIRED
Residential and Dwelling Uses
Dwelling,
detached and    2 spaces per dwelling unit – Not less than one required space in a completely
attached        enclosed building
single-unit
Dwelling,
multiple-unit,  1.5 spaces per dwelling unit – Not less than one required space in a completely
community       enclosed building
residence
Skilled Care    .75 spaces per dwelling unit
Facility
Recreational Uses
Country Club    1 per 3 persons of capacity
Golf Courses    40 spaces per each nine holes, plus additional parking spaces as applicable to
                any accessory retail, service, office, or banquet area
Indoor          1 per 3 seats, game stations, or other unit so determined by the Zoning
Recreation      Administrator, plus parking as required in this Section for restaurants or
Facilities      other accessory uses
Outdoor
Recreation
Facilities,     1 space per 3 persons of design capacity
Public and
Private
Government/Cultural/Public Uses
Cultural        1 parking space for each 500 square feet of net floor area
Facilities
Places of       1 per 3 persons of design capacity
Worship
Government
Buildings and   3.3 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Facilities
Schools -
Public and
private         0.4 spaces per total students, faculty and staff at capacity
(elementary,
junior high and
senior high)
Convention      1 parking space for each two hundred (200) square feet of net floor area or one
Centers         parking space for each three (3) seats based on design capacity, whichever is
                greater
Colleges and
universities    As determined by the Zoning Officer or Village Board for an SUP
(Public and
private)
Miscellaneous Uses
Adult Business  4 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Uses
Auditoriums     1 per 3 persons of design capacity
Botanical       1 per 3 persons of design capacity
Gardens
Health
Treatment       5 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Centers
Hospitals       1 space per bed + 4 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA of administrative office
                plus additional spaces as required per labs, clinics, or other accessory use.
Business and    1 parking space for each 2 employees, plus 1 parking space for each 4 students
Technical       based on rated design capacity
Schools
Cemetery        2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA of office area plus 1 per 3 person
                capacity in chapel areas
Training Studio 1 parking space for each 2 employees, plus 1 parking space for each 4 students
                based on rated design capacity
Commercial and Service Uses
Animal          4.5 per 1,000 square feet NFA
Hospitals
Automobile      4 parking space 1,000 square feet NFA of total retail space plus spaces
Service         required per this Section for restaurants or other accessory spaces. Half the
Stations        number of gas pumps may be counted as parking spaces.
Automobile and  4 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA plus one space for each fleet vehicle
Truck Rentals
Bakery/Coffee   10 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA with eat in option/4 spaces per 1,000
Shop/Sweets     square feet NFA if retail only
Banks and
Financial       2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Institutions
Banquet Halls   1 per 3 persons of capacity
Beer or Wine    10 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Bar
Boat Sales &    4 per 1,000 square feet NFA of office space and sales area
Repair
Brew Pub        10 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Business and    For buildings with less than 50,000 square feet of net floor area, 4 parking
Professional    spaces for each 1,000 square feet of net floor area, for buildings with 50,000
Offices         square feet or more of net floor area, 3.3 parking spaces for each 1,000 square
                feet of net floor area
Business        4 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Services
Cannabis        4 per 1,000 square feet NFA
Dispensary
Car and Truck   2.5 per 1,000 square feet NFA of office / retail area plus 3 per individual
Washes          wash bay
Catering        2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Establishments
Childcare       2.5 per 1,000 square feet NFA
Centers
Contractor      4 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA of office plus 1 space for each fleet
Services        vehicle
Currency        3.3 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Exchanges
Equipment       3 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Rental
Funeral Homes   2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA of office area plus 1 per 3 person
                capacity in chapel areas
Greenhouse      2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA of indoor sales area plus 1.5 spaces per
                1,000 square feet of outdoor sales areas
Health Club     5 per 1,000 square feet NFA
(Large)
Health Club     4 per 1,000 square feet NFA
(small)
Hotels/Motels   1 space per guestroom plus spaces required per this Section for any banquet,
                office, meeting, or other accessory spaces
Hotel, extended 1 space per guestroom plus spaces required per this Section for any banquet,
stay            office, meeting, or other accessory spaces
Indoor Retail   4 per 1,000 square feet NFA
Sales
Kennel          3 per 1,000 square feet NFA
Medical Offices 4.5 per 1,000 square feet NFA
Motor Vehicle   4 per service bay plus 2.5 per 1,000 square feet NFA of office
Repair
Motor Vehicle   4 per 1,000 square feet NFA of office space
Storage
New/Used        1 parking space for each 300 square feet of net floor area
Vehicle Sales
Personal        4 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Service
Pet Care        3.3 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Services
Restaurants     10 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Smoke Shops     3.3 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Tattoo Parlors  3.3 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Industrial Uses
Cannabis        2 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA (office area calculated at 4 spaces per
Production      1,000 square feet)
Cargo container 1 parking space per employee, but not less than 6 spaces, plus 1 parking space
facilities      per 500 square feet of gross floor area
Cartage and     1 space per 1,000 square feet NFA (office area calculated at 4 spaces per 1,000
Express         square feet)
Facilities
Computer and    1 space per 1,000 square feet NFA (office area calculated at 4 spaces per 1,000
data processing square feet)
facilities
Laboratory and
Testing         2 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Facilities
Manufacturing   2 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA (office area calculated at 4 spaces per
                1,000 square feet)
Microbrewery    2 spaces per 1,000 NFA square feet (office area calculated at 4 spaces per
                1,000 square feet)
Microdistillery 2 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA (office area calculated at 4 spaces per
                1,000 square feet)
Microwinery     2 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA (office area calculated at 4 spaces per
                1,000 square feet)
Miniwarehouses  0.179 parking space per 1,000 square feet of net floor area
Recycling       1.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA (office area calculated at 4 spaces per
Centers         1,000 square feet)
Public Utility
and Public      4 per 1,000 square feet NFA of office space
Service Uses
Research and
Development     2 spaces per 1,000 square feet NFA
Facility
Warehousing and 1 space per 1,000 square feet NFA (office area calculated at 4 spaces per 1,000
Logistics       square feet)
Facilities
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-7-6: LOADING REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
Off street loading berths shall be required in all zoning districts for uses
which may require the receipt or distribution of goods, materials, equipment or
merchandise by trucks or similar vehicles. Berths shall be provided in the
number and dimensions as indicated in Section 9-7-6-E below.
   A.   Location:
      1.   All required loading berths shall be located on the same zoning lot
as the use served.
      2.   No loading berth for vehicles over eight thousand (8,000) pounds’
gross vehicular weight shall be closer than fifty feet (50’) to any property in
a residential district unless completely enclosed by building walls or a
uniformly painted solid fence or wall or any combination thereof, not less than
six feet (6’) in height.
      3.   No permitted or required loading berth shall be located within
twenty-five feet (25') of the nearest point of intersection of any two (2)
dedicated streets.
      4.   In the RBC regional business center district, and the ORI office,
research and light industrial district, all loading docks in the fronts of
buildings (as indicated on site plans submitted with building permit
applications) shall be fully enclosed.
      5.   Loading docks should not be faced towards residential districts or
right-of-way. Where infeasible, the following requirements apply:
         a.   Loading facilities should be screened from view by neighboring
properties and public rights-of-way with landscaping and a screen wall pending
the location of the docks and proximity to, and type of, adjacent use.
         b.   Screening will be above and beyond minimum requirements included
in the Zoning Code, subject to agreement with Village.
   B.   Access:
      1.   Each required off street loading berth shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street in a manner which will least
interfere with traffic movements.
      2.   Loading spaces on lots located on the main thoroughfares shall be so
situated as to enable the vehicles to back into the loading dock from areas
other than the main thoroughfare.
   C.   Structural Design: All off street loading berths shall be improved in
accordance with the standards established by the Village Code.
   D.   Repair and Service: No vehicle repair work or service of any kind shall
be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in any zoning
district.
   E.   Size and Number of Loading Spaces:
      1.   Residence Districts and Business Districts: The minimum number of
off street loading spaces necessary to nonresidential uses in residence
districts and business districts shall be:
 
Floor Area Of Building   Required Number Minimu m Size Minimum Vertical
(GFA)                                                  Clearance
10,000 - 100,000         1               10' x 25'     12'
Each additional 100,000  2               10' x 25'     12'
(or fraction thereof)
Note: Minimum size shall be exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space.
 
      2.   Industrial Districts: The minimum number and size of off street
loading spaces accessory to uses in industrial districts shall be in accordance
with the following schedules:
 
Floor Area Of            Required Number Minimum Size  Minimum Vertical
Establishments                                         Clearance
5,000 - 10,000           1               10' x 35'     12'
10,000 - 25,000          2               10' x 35'     12'
25,000 - 40,000          2               12' x 50' ea. 14'
40,000 - 100,000         3               12' x 50' ea. 14'
Each additional 100,000
(or fraction thereof)    1               13’ in lengt14’
over 100,000 square feet
 
      3.   Office Buildings in RBC and ORI Districts: In the RBC and ORI zoning
district, no office building shall be required to have more than two (2) off
street loading berths. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-7-7: TRAFFIC CONTROL GATES:
Traffic control gates shall be permitted in the RBC, ORI, and M-1 zoning
districts in accordance with the following regulations:
   A.   Traffic control gates shall be permitted only as a means of closing off
truck maneuvering, storage and dock areas.
   B.   Traffic control gates shall be located no closer to an adjacent street
than the facade of the principal building. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
CHAPTER 8
LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose
9-8-2: Applicability
9-8-3: Tree Preservation Plan And Requirements
9-8-4: Landscape Plan And Requirements
9-8-5: Landscape Design Standards
9-8-6: Transitional Land Use Buffering
9-8-7: Landscape And Landscape Area Maintenance
9-8-8: Screening Requirements
9-8-9: Parking Lot Landscaping
9-8-10: Best Management Practices
9-8-1: PURPOSE:
The landscaping, screening, tree preservation and stormwater basin maintenance
requirements in this Chapter foster aesthetically pleasing development that
will protect and preserve the appearance, character, general health and welfare
of the Village. Specifically, these regulations are intended to increase the
compatibility of adjacent uses by requiring a buffer or screen between uses. In
doing so, the regulations minimize potentially harmful impacts of noise, dust,
debris, motor vehicle headlight glare, artificial light intrusions, and other
objectionable impacts created by an adjoining or nearby use. These regulations
also are intended to enhance property values and provide the following
environmental benefits:
   A.   Enhance and preserve air quality through filtering of pollutants.
   B.   Reduce topsoil erosion through the soil retention effect of tree roots.
   C.   Reduce energy consumption through the windbreak, shade and
transpiration effects of trees.
   D.   Minimize wildlife habitat loss and preserve nesting areas for birds
which in turn assist in the control of insects.
   E.   Reduce stormwater runoff and associated costs and replenish ground
water supplies. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Tree Preservation Plan:
      1.   Tree Preservation Plan Required: A tree preservation plan prepared
in accordance with Section
9-8-3  shall be submitted to and approved by the Village in the connection
with:
         a.   Any application for approval of a subdivision of land.
         b.   Any application for annexation, rezoning, variation, special use
permit, or planned unit development.
         c.   Any building permit application that involves increasing the
impervious area of any property by ten percent (10%) or more.
         d.   Any application for a grading permit or utility installation.
         e.   Any activity on undeveloped or underdeveloped land not otherwise
addressed above that anticipates or involves the actual or reasonably likely
damage or removal of a qualifying tree.
      2.   Exemptions: A Tree Removal Plan is not required in the following
circumstances:
         a.   Lots containing existing single-family detached houses in
residentially zoned districts.
         b.   Village owned rights of way.
         c.   In cases where the Zoning Officer, based on information provided
by the applicant regarding development plans and procedures, determines that
removal or damage of a qualifying tree is not expected to occur as a result of
the proposed activity.
      3.   Approval:
         a.   In cases where a: (1) Final subdivision plat; (2) Special use
permit; or (3) Final PUD plan; A tree preservation plan shall be approved by
the Village Board as part of those matters.
         b.   Where Village Board approval is not required, the tree
preservation plan shall be approved by the Zoning Officer, in keeping with
standards set out in this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-3: TREE PRESERVATION PLAN AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Contents of Tree Preservation Plans: The tree preservation plans shall
include the following information:
      1.   The name, telephone number and address of applicant, property owner,
developer and builder.
      2.   Delineation of the buildings, structures, or paved surfaces situated
thereon and/or contemplated to be built thereon.
      3.   Delineation of all areas to be graded and limits of land
disturbance.
      4.   A map (tree survey) showing the locations of all existing qualifying
trees, each of which shall be keyed to the tree list.
      5.   A list noting the size, species, and condition of all existing
qualifying trees, as defined by the Village Code, within the area to be platted
or on the parcel proposed to be developed. Tree condition shall be determined
by a certified arborist, forester or landscape architect in keeping with the
definitions in
Table 1 , “Tree Condition Rating Scale” below.
      6.   Size, species, condition and location of all existing qualifying
trees located on adjacent properties whose trunks are located within twenty
feet (20') of the subject property line. Tree condition shall be determined by
a certified arborist, forester or landscape architect in keeping with the
definitions in
Table 1 , “Tree Condition Rating Scale” below.
      7.   Identification of all qualifying trees proposed to be removed. These
trees shall be identified in both graphic and tabular form.
      8.   Calculations showing how many replacement trees are required based
on
Table 2 , "Tree Replacement Schedule", of this section.
      9.   Calculations showing how many replacement trees are proposed.
      10.   Size, species, and location of all replacement trees proposed to be
planted on the property in accordance with
Table 2 , "Tree Replacement Schedule", of this section.
      11.   Measures proposed to protect existing trees to be retained, both on
the subject property and on neighboring properties within twenty feet (20') of
the subject property line, in keeping with Section
9-8-3 -B below.
      12.   Current plat of survey of the property.
      13.   Signature of the person preparing the plan.
      14.   A current certificate issued by an International Society of
Arboriculture certified arborist, a Society of American Foresters certified
forester, or Illinois registered landscape architect stating that the tree
preservation plan complies with the provisions of the tree preservation
regulations.
      15.   As determined by the Zoning Officer, additional information that
may be needed for complete understanding of the requested tree preservation
plan approval shall be provided by the applicant. Further, should the Zoning
Officer determine that one or more of the items indicated in this subsection
are not relevant to or needed to consider the requested tree preservation plan
approval, the Zoning Officer may waive the requirement to provide any item
listed in this Section
9-8-3 -A.
   B.   Tree Replacement: The number of trees required as replacement for
qualifying trees removed shall be as follows:
      1.   Rating one (1) trees shall be replaced as indicated in
Table 2  below.
      2.   Rating two (2) trees shall be replaced at half the rate indicated in
Table 2  below.
      3.   Rating three trees shall be replaced at a rate of one quarter of the
rate indicated in
Table 2 .
      4.`No replacement trees shall be required for Rating 4 or Rating 5 trees,
as defined in
Table 1 , “Tree Condition Rating Scale”, of this section.
      5.   In calculating the total number of replacement trees, sums including
a fraction of a replacement tree shall be rounded up to the nearest whole
number.
      6.   Fee In-Lieu: It may be impractical to plant the required number of
replacement trees on the project site due to space limitations or the density
of existing trees. Such determination shall be made by the Zoning Officer based
on evidence provided by the applicant. If such is found to be the case the
Village may allow the payment of a fee in-lieu for each replacement tree not
planted on the subject property. Said fee shall be as specified in the Village
of Woodridge Fee Schedule. The collected fee in-lieu shall be used to plant
trees on public property at the City’s discretion.
      7.   Replacement trees required in addition to required landscaping.
 
TABLE 1: Tree Condition Rating Scale
Rating Description General Criteria
                   The tree is typical of the species, has less than ten
1      Excellent   percent (10%) deadwood in the crown that is attributable to
                   normal causes, has no other observed problems and requires
                   no remedial action.
                   The tree is typical of the species and/or has less than
                   thirty percent (30%) deadwood in the crown, one (1) or two
                   (2) minor problems that are not imminently lethal to the
2      Good        tree, and no significant decay or structural problems, but
                   the tree may need remedial care above normal care in order
                   to minimize the impact of future stress and to ensure
                   continued health.
                   The tree is not typical of the species and/or has
                   significant problems such as thirty percent (30%) to fifty
                   percent (50%) deadwood in the crown, serious decay or
3      Fair        structural defect, insects, disease or other problems that
                   can be imminently lethal to the tree or create a hazardous
                   tree if not corrected in a short period of time or if the
                   tree is subjected to additional stress.
                   The tree is not typical of the species and/or has over fifty
                   percent (50%) deadwood in the crown, major decay or
4      Poor        structural problems, is hazardous or is severely involved
                   with insects, disease, or other problems that even if
                   aggressively corrected would not result in the long term
                   survival of the tree.
5      Dead        Less than ten percent (10%) of the tree shows signs of life.
 
Table 2: Tree Replacement Schedule
Type Of Tree Removed Size Number Of Replacement Trees Required
Table 2: Tree Replacement Schedule
Type Of Tree Removed Size                    Number Of Replacement Trees
                                             Required
                     6 inch up to, but not   1
                     including, 12 inch
                     12 inch up to, but not  2
                     including, 24 inch
                     24 inch up to, but not  3
Deciduous            including, 36 inch
(size is DBH)        36 inch up to, but not  4
                     including, 48 inch
                     48 inch up to, but not  5
                     including, 60 inch
                     60 inch and larger      5 plus 1 additional tree for
                                             each 12 inches of diameter
Evergreen            112 foot up to, but not 2
(size is height)     including, 24 foot
                     24 foot and larger      4
 
   C.   Replacement Tree Requirements:
      1.   All replacement shade trees shall have a minimum caliper of three
inches (3”).
      2.   All replacement coniferous trees shall have a minimum height of six
feet (6’).
      3.   Replacement trees may not include any tree included in the
definition of a Rating Two through Rating Five in this Code.
      4.   A variety of tree species are encouraged to promote a diverse tree
canopy and minimize the impact from disease and infestation, thus when twenty
(20) or more replacement trees are required no more than twenty percent (20%)
of the replacement trees shall be of one (1) species type.
      5.   A maximum of twenty percent (20%) of replacement trees may be
coniferous trees.
   D.   Tree Preservation Priority Areas: The applicant shall preserve as many
trees as possible, placing highest priority for preservation upon those trees
located in:
      1.   Wooded wetlands.
      2.   Wooded floodplains.
      3.   Wooded stream corridors.
      4.   Wooded slopes equal to or greater than twenty five percent (25%)
slope.
      5.   The perimeter of the subject property.
   E.   Transplanted Trees: Existing trees less than six inches (6") diameter
at breast height (DBH) may be transplanted elsewhere on site and used to
satisfy any tree replacement requirements or landscape requirements of this
chapter provided they meet the minimum size, species, condition and quality
requirements for new and/or replacement trees.
   F.   Tree Protection Measures: The protective measures listed below shall be
incorporated into all tree preservation plans, and shall be adhered to on site
prior to and during construction:
      1.   A tree protection fence shall be installed prior to the commencement
of grading or construction and located so as to protect the critical root zone
of all trees designated for preservation in accordance with the approved tree
preservation plan. Said fence shall be located no closer to each tree to be
preserved than at the outside edge of each tree's dripline.
      2.   Tree protection fencing shall consist of brightly colored plastic
mesh or snow fencing a minimum of forty-eight inches (48") in height. It shall
be securely attached to metal fence posts that are driven into the ground and
that are spaced no more than eight feet (8') apart.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2992.png]
 
      3.   No encroachment, grading, trenching, filling, compaction, waste
dumping, concrete washout, change in soil chemistry, or storage of materials,
equipment or vehicles shall occur within the fenced areas.
      4.   When roots two inches (2") in diameter and greater must be severed,
the ends shall be cut cleanly with a saw under the supervision or direction of
an arborist certified by the International Society of Arboriculture to prevent
the onset of decay. If they are accidentally broken or crushed, the root shall
be saw cut above the ragged end. In all cases, the cut roots shall be
immediately buried, mulched, or otherwise kept moist to preserve viability.
      5.   Tree protection fencing shall remain in place until the completion
of construction, as determined by the Zoning Officer.
   G.   Amendments To Approved Tree Preservation Plan: Once a tree preservation
plan has been approved, the Zoning Officer may authorize deviations if changed
facts or circumstances not within the control of the applicant create an undue
hardship in complying with the approved plan. The proposed amended tree
preservation plan shall be submitted for review and be accompanied by a written
statement describing the proposed changes and reasons therefor. No amendment
shall be permitted to delete a qualifying tree from preservation that has been
damaged or where the provisions of the approved plan have not been followed
unless the amendment provides for the addition of required replacement trees to
compensate for the damage or loss of said qualifying tree(s).
   H.   Maintenance Guarantee: A deposit shall be made to the Village in cash
or letter of credit and in a form acceptable to the Village Attorney equal to
ten percent (10%) of the estimated cost of the installation and implementation
of the tree protection measures and required replacement trees. The deposit
shall be a guarantee of survival of the preserved trees and replacement trees
and shall be held by the village for a period of two (2) years from the date of
acceptance of the last public or private improvement for the development, or if
none, of the date of issuance of the final occupancy permit. After such two (2)
years, the deposit shall be refunded if no trees have died or are in poor
condition, as determined by the Zoning Officer. If trees have died or are in
poor condition, then the party that posted the guarantee shall replace them. A
portion of the deposit shall continue to be held an additional two (2) years
from the date of replacement to guarantee the survival of the replacement
trees, the amount to be determined by the Village Engineer. The balance of the
original deposit, if any, shall be refunded.
   I.   Penalties For Noncompliance with the Tree Preservation Plan:
      1.   At their discretion, the Village Engineer or the Zoning Officer may
issue a stop work order for noncompliance with the tree preservation plan. Stop
work orders shall remain in effect until the site is brought into compliance
with the tree preservation plan.
      2.   Fines may be assessed in accordance with Section
1-4-1  of the Village Code for noncompliance with the tree preservation plan.
If the offense involves damage to qualifying trees, each damaged tree shall
constitute a separate offense. Each day the site is in noncompliance shall
constitute a separate offense.
      3.   Replacements for damaged trees shall be provided at twice the rate
indicated in
Table 1 , "Tree Replacement Schedule", of this section. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-4: LANDSCAPE PLAN AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required Landscape Plans:
      1.   A Preliminary Landscape Plan prepared in accordance with Section 9-
8-4 A. shall be required as a part of preliminary subdivision, concept planned
unit development plan and plat review applications.
         a.   A Final Landscape Preliminary prepared in accordance with Section
9-8-4 B. shall be required as a part of Site Plan Review (Section
9-6-6 : Site Plan Review) applications, special use applications, final
subdivision plat, final planned unit development, and plan and plat review
applications.
         b.   Required Landscape Plan Content: Preliminary landscape plans
shall include:
            (1)   Approximate quantity and location of all plant materials by
plant type and location;
            (2)   Approximate height of berming and aesthetic features;
            (3)   Location of landscape yards and parking lot landscaping;
            (4)   Natural features to remain; and
            (5)   Certificate from an Illinois registered landscape architect
stating that the preliminary landscape plan complies with the provisions of the
landscaping, screening and stormwater maintenance regulations.
   C.   Final landscape plans shall include the following detailed information:
      1.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed structures,
natural features, parking lots and drives, roadways and rights of way,
sidewalks, bicycle paths, ground signs, refuse disposal and compactor areas,
bicycle parking areas, fences, freestanding electrical equipment, utility
easements, tot lots and other recreational facilities, and other adjacent
freestanding structure features, as determined necessary by the Zoning Officer.
      2.   The location, quantity, size, root ball condition (e.g., balled and
burlapped or potted) and both scientific and common names of all proposed
materials.
      3.   The location of all proposed berming indicating contours at one foot
(1') contours and percent of slope.
      4.   Specification of the type, boundaries, size and spacing of all
proposed ground cover.
      5.   The designation, location, quantity, size and both botanic and
common names of all existing plant materials intended to remain on the site
which is to be developed.
      6.   Elevations of all fences, bridges, retaining walls, or other similar
details proposed for location on the site.
      7.   Elevations, cross sections and other details as determined necessary
by the Plan Commission.
      8.   A title block indicating the preparer, property owner, date, scale,
and north arrow.
      9.   A current certificate issued by an Illinois registered landscape
architect stating that the final landscape plan complies with the provisions of
the landscaping, screening and stormwater maintenance regulations contained
herein.
      10.   An inset drawing showing the location, design, screening and
elevation details of any trash enclosures.
      11.   Irrigation system details or proof of compliance with alternate
options described in Section
9-8-5  A.10.
   D.   Exceptions to Landscape Plan Requirements: As determined by the Zoning
Officer, additional information that may be needed for complete understanding
of the requested landscape plan approval shall be provided by the applicant.
Further, should the Zoning Officer determine that one (1) or more of the items
indicated in this subsection are not relevant to or needed to consider the
requested landscape plan approval, the Zoning Officer may waive the requirement
to provide any item listed in Section
9-8-4  B. and C.
   E.   Changes to Approved Landscape Plan: Once a landscape plan has been
approved and a building permit issued, the Zoning Officer may authorize
deviations from the approved landscape plan including but not limited to the
substitution of equivalent approved plantings and ground covers. Such
deviations and/or substitutions shall be submitted with a revised landscape
plan and a statement describing such changes. Any such changes shall require
the written approval of the Zoning Officer upon their finding that the
requested changes are of equal or greater aesthetic quality as the original
plan. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-5: LANDSCAPE DESIGN STANDARDS:
The following landscape design standards shall apply for all non-single –
family residential development in the Village of Woodridge.
   A.   General Design Guidelines for all Plantings: As part of reviewing
planting plans related to zoning requests and Site Plan Review (Section
9-6-6 : Site Plan Review) consideration, the Village shall take into account
and approve plans in keeping with the follow standards:
      1.   The arrangement of trees and shrubs shall be done in a manner that
provides the maximum visual separation between adjacent land uses. Plant
materials shall be massed in groups to achieve a naturalistic and pleasing
effect.
      2.   Required screening shall not be interrupted for any reason except
for required walks, driveways, pedestrian or bicycle paths and fences.
      3.   Planting materials used in conformance with the provisions of this
section shall be of good quality, and of a species normally grown in
northeastern Illinois and capable of withstanding site microclimates. Size and
density at the time of planting and at maturity are additional criteria which
must be considered when selecting plant materials.
      4.   All landscaping material shall be installed in accordance with the
planting procedures established by the American Association of Nurserymen.
      5.   Scale and Nature of Landscape Material: The scale and nature of
landscape material shall be appropriate to the site and structures. Larger
scaled buildings, for example, shall generally be complemented by plants which
will grow to a larger scale.
      6.   Selection of Plant Material: Plant material shall also be selected
for its form, texture, color, and concern for its ultimate growth. Evergreens
shall be incorporated into the landscape treatment of a site, particularly in
those areas screening parking lots from dedicated public rights-of-way or
property zoned for residential use. The use of silver maples, box elders,
Russian olives, Lombardy poplars, catalpa, willows, mulberry, tree of heaven,
and other weak wooded species shall be avoided unless determined appropriate by
the Plan Commission.
      7.   Softening of Walls and Fences: Plant materials shall be placed
intermittently along long expanses of building walls, fences and other barriers
to soften the appearance of the barrier.
      8.   Artificial Plants: No artificial plants may be used to satisfy the
requirements of this chapter.
      9.   Energy Conservation:
         a.   Deciduous trees which are sun tolerant shall be placed on the
south and west sides of buildings to provide shade from summer sun.
         b.   Evergreens and other plant materials which are shade tolerant
shall be concentrated on the north side of buildings to dissipate the effect of
winter winds.
   Berming: Earthen berms and existing topography shall, whenever practical, be
incorporated into the landscape treatment of a site. Berms shall be stabilized
to prevent erosion and of such a slope to allow maintenance of same.
      10.   Watering Plant Material: Installation of an automatic underground
irrigation system is required.
         a.   An applicant may request, and an exemption from this requirement
may be authorized by the Zoning Officer upon finding that in accordance with
best practices for the particular situation, as defined by a regional agency or
similar authority on landscaping, that such automatic underground irrigation is
not necessary. The applicant shall provide such information to the Zoning
Officer, along with an irrigation plan to ensure long term survival of planted
materials. The Zoning Officer shall make their determination regarding the
exemption based on this evidence provided by the applicant.
   B.   Specific Design Standards for all Plantings:
      1.   Minimum Plant Materials:
         a.   Shade Trees: All shade trees shall have a minimum trunk size of
three inches (3”) in diameter, as measured six inches (6”) above the
established ground.
         b.   Ornamental Trees: All ornamental trees shall be fully branched
and have a minimum trunk size of two inches (2”) measured six inches (6”) above
the established ground.
         c.   Shrubs:
            (1)   Deciduous shrubs shall have a minimum height of eighteen
inches (18”) for low shrubs and a minimum height of twenty-four inches (24”)
for tall shrubs.
            (2)   Evergreen shrubs shall have a minimum spread of twenty-four
inches (24”).
            (3)   All shrubs shall have a minimum ball diameter in accordance
with the most recent edition of the American standards for nursery stock as
sponsored and approved by the American Association of Nurserymen and the
American National Standards Institute, Inc.
         d.   Planting Beds: Planting beds shall be mulched with bark chips or
shredded bark mulch to a minimum depth of two inches (2”) for flower and ground
cover beds and three inches (3”) for tree and shrub beds.
         e.   Detention/Retention Basins and Ponds: Detention/retention basins
and ponds and shall be landscaped with live ground covering or native
plantings.
         f.   Stormwater Basin Maintenance: All stormwater basins planted with
natural prairie or wetland plantings shall be maintained in accordance with
title 8, chapter 1, article L of this code.
      2.   Minimum Landscaped Area: A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the
total site area shall be landscaped, which shall include all vegetation,
plazas, fountains, bikeways, ornamental features, ponds and stormwater
retention and detention areas, but not private sidewalks providing access to
buildings, driveways, aisles, landbanked parking spaces or parking spaces.
      3.   Foundation Landscaping:
         a.   Setback: A landscaped area extending a minimum of five feet (5’)
in width shall be located around the front and side of all buildings.
         b.   Coverage: Required landscaped areas abutting building foundations
shall remain open and free of all paving except for sidewalks to building
doors, plazas, loading docks and stalls, and driveways to building doors and
openings. Alternate compliance may be accomplished through Site Plan Review.
         c.   Ground Cover: Except where occupied by planting beds or mulched
beds, all foundation landscaping areas shall be sodded.
   C.   Right-Of-Way Landscaping:
      1.   Applicability: Where a parcel abuts a dedicated public right- of-
way, landscaping shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
      2.   Landscape Setback from Right-Of-Way: Minimum landscaped setbacks
from the right-of-way lines shall be as described in this subsection:
         a.   From interstate highway and tollway right-of-way boundaries:
Thirty feet (30’).
         b.   From arterial streets: Thirty feet (30’).
         c.   From collector roads and local roads: Twenty-five feet (25’).
      3.   Graded and Sodded: The unpaved portion of public right-of-way
abutting a parcel shall be fine graded and sodded as set forth in the Village
of Woodridge subdivision control ordinance.
      4.   Parkway Trees: Parkway trees shall be planted in accordance with
section
10-5-10  of the Village Code.
   D.   Compliance with Design Standards Under Alternate Circumstances:
      1.   In the event that it can be demonstrated that existing vegetation
meets the intent of the landscape requirements of this title, existing
vegetation may be applied as landscape materials required by this section. Such
vegetation shall meet specifications for new plant materials and be located
within the area for which credit has been given. The applicant shall note on
the landscape plan the landscape materials that would have been required if the
existing vegetation did not exist. If any of the existing vegetation dies, the
developer shall replace it with the plant materials described in the note. Such
replacement plant material shall be guaranteed for a minimum of one (1) year.
      2.   Whenever the existing use of any building, structure or lot shall be
increased, expanded or changed, landscaping, screening, tree preservation and
tree replacement shall be provided as required under this chapter.
      3.   Innovative landscaping treatments are encouraged and shall be
considered as a positive attribute in connection with any request for a
variation from the requirements of this Chapter.
      4.   Landscaping required under this Section may be substituted with
native plantings, rain gardens bioswales and biofilter strips providing
equivalent or greater screening impact. To the extent such materials are
applied, the guidelines defined in Section Best Management Practices shall be
incorporated, and their application approved as determined by Site Plan Review
consideration. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-6: TRANSITIONAL LAND USE BUFFERING:
In addition to the general and specific design criteria outlined in Section
9-8-5  above, all nonresidential and multiple-family development shall provide
perimeter landscaping as prescribed herein where a parking lot is not located
along the relevant lot lines or between the principal structure and such lot
lines. Sufficiency of proposed landscaping shall be considered as part of and
in keeping with the standards of the Site Plan Review consideration (Section
9-6-6 : Site Plan Review).
    A.   Nonresidential property abutting nonresidential property. When
nonresidential property abuts property zoned as nonresidential use, landscaping
shall be provided as follows:
      1.   Shade trees. Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of not
more than seventy-five (75) feet apart along the abutting property line. Such
trees may be clustered or spaced linearly.
      2.   Other planting materials. Other landscaping materials including
berms, ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live
materials may be provided at appropriate locations along the abutting property
line.
      3.   Ground cover. Except where occupied by planting beds, all perimeter
landscaping areas shall be sodded or seeded.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3243.png]
 
   B.   Nonresidential property abutting residential property. When
nonresidential property abuts property zoned as residential use landscaping
shall be provided as follows:
      1.   Screening. Solid screening to a minimum of six (6) feet in height at
installation, shall be provided along the length of the abutting property line
to the front building setback line of the abutting residential property. Such
screening shall consist of a continuous landscaped berm, solid wood or
decorative masonry fence, wall, or other comparable barrier. Continuous
landscaping, a minimum of three feet (3') in height at installation shall be
provided along that portion of the abutting property line from the front
building setback line to the front lot line of the abutting residential
property. Such landscaping shall consist of berms, if feasible, trees,
evergreen, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live planting materials.
      2.   Shade trees. Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of not
more than seventy-five feet (75') apart along the abutting property line. Such
trees may be clustered or spaced linearly and shall not conflict with existing
or proposed utility locations.
      3.   Other planting materials. Other landscaping materials including
berms, if feasible, ornamental trees, evergreen, shrubbery, hedges, and/or live
planting materials may be required as part of Site Plan Review at appropriate
locations along the abutting property line.
      4.   Ground cover. Except where occupied by planting beds, all perimeter
landscaping areas shall be sodded or seeded.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3241.png]
 
   C.   Multiple-family residential property abutting single-family residential
property. Where multiple-family residential property abuts property zoned for
single-unit residential property, required transition yards shall be landscaped
as follows:
      1.   Screening. Continuous landscaping, a minimum of three (3) feet in
height at installation. Such landscaping shall consist of berms, if feasible,
trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live planting materials.
      2.   Shade trees. Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of not
more than seventy-five feet (75') apart along the abutting single-family
residential property line. Such trees may be clustered or spaced linearly and
shall not conflict with existing or proposed utility locations.
      3.   Ground cover. Except where occupied by planting beds, all perimeter
landscaping areas shall be sodded or seeded.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3239.png]
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-7: LANDSCAPE AND LANDSCAPE AREA MAINTENANCE:
The owner of the property, or subsequent owners, shall be jointly and severally
responsible for the maintenance, repair and replacement of all landscape
materials and barriers, including refuse disposal areas. All landscaping
materials shall be maintained in good condition so as to present a healthy,
neat and orderly appearance. Landscape materials shall be replaced in
compliance with the approved landscape plan when they die or are damaged to the
extent that their effectiveness is reduced. Landscape areas shall be kept free
of refuse and debris. Fences, walls and other barriers shall be maintained in
good repair. All screening and landscaping shall be protected from damage by
motor vehicles, pedestrians and snow. All landscaping materials shall be
located and trimmed as necessary so as to not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular
circulation or a public right of way. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-8: SCREENING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Screening of Refuse Disposal Areas Required:
      1.   Screened Refuse Disposal Areas shall be required for the following
types of properties:
         a.   All Multi-Unit Properties with four (4) or more dwelling units.
         b.   All nonresidential properties.
      2.   Screened Refuse Disposal Areas Required for the following types of
refuse disposal:
         a.   Refuse disposal containers
         b.   Recycling containers
         c.   Grease storage containers
         d.   Trash compactors
      3.   Design and Installation of Refuse Disposal: Refuse disposal areas
shall be screened, designed, and constructed in keeping with the following:
         a.   Refuse disposal areas shall be screened on a minimum of three (3)
sides by a solid commercial grade wood fence, masonry wall or equivalent
material to a height of not less than six feet (6') and no greater than seven
feet (7') in height.
         b.   The enclosure shall not be used for the outside storage of any
other materials or equipment.
         c.   All refuse disposal areas shall be located on an impervious
surface.
         d.   A refuse disposal area shall be located out of view from public
streets and adjacent properties, to the greatest extent possible.
         e.   A refuse disposal area shall not be located in any front or
corner side yard.
         f.   The open side of said enclosure shall be oriented so that it does
not face towards an abutting property or street, to the greatest extent
possible.
         g.   The trash enclosure shall be located so as not to interfere with
safe travel by vehicles, bicycles or pedestrians.
         h.   The owner of the property upon which the trash enclosure and
refuse collection area is located shall be responsible for its maintenance.
         i.   An inset drawing of the location, design, and elevation details
of the enclosure shall be depicted on the landscaping plan.
   B.   Rooftop Screening Required: All heating, air conditioning, ventilating,
transmission devices or other mechanical equipment located on the roof of any
structure or building, except those located on single-family homes, shall be
screened from adjacent streets and properties by a parapet wall or other method
approved by the Zoning Officer. The design, construction materials and color of
such screening shall be subject to the approval of the Zoning Officer who shall
base their approval on the following criteria:
      1.   The design shall provide the screening effect required by this
section.
      2.   The screening shall be constructed of materials that complement’s
the materials used in the construction of the principal building or structure
and shall consist of one (1) or more of the following:
         a.   Brick;
         b.   Aluminum, steel, or other approved metal;
         c.   Wood;
         d.   Fiberglass.
      3.   The color shall match or complement the color of the principal
building or structure.
   C.   Screening Requirements for All Private Generators:
      1.   Generators that are less than four feet (4') in all dimensions are
not required to be screened.
      2.   Generators that are four feet (4') or greater in any dimension shall
be screened in accordance with the following:
         a.   Generators and their cabinets that are four (4’) to six feet (6')
in height shall be enclosed within a metal cabinet, masonry wall or solid
fence. Fences shall be constructed of commercial grade wood or comparable
materials.
         b.   Any generator greater than six feet (6') in height shall be
completely enclosed within a metal cabinet or within a completely enclosed
accessory building. Metal cabinets shall have an even, finished appearance free
of projections and protrusions. The design, color and materials of completely
enclosed accessory buildings shall match those of the principal structure.
      3.   The design, construction materials and color of the screening
referred to in Subsection
9-8-7  C.2. Screening Requirements for All Private Generators, shall be subject
to the approval of the Zoning Officer, who shall base their approval on the
following:
         a.   The design shall provide the screening effect required by this
section to mitigate impact on adjacent properties. The screening shall be
constructed of materials which shall complement the materials used in the
construction of the principal building or structure.
         b.   The color of the required screening shall match the color of the
principal building or shall be selected to blend into the surroundings.
      4.   Landscaping shall be provided in addition to the required screening.
Said landscaping shall consist, at a minimum, of large shrubs planted three
feet (3') apart around the perimeter of the generator and its screening fence,
wall or cabinet. For those generators and required screening that exceed six
feet (6') in height, the required landscaping shall consist of tall evergreen
shrubs (such as arborvitae) spaced four feet (4') apart or evergreen trees that
are a minimum of eight feet (8') in height and spaced eight feet (8') apart.
      5.   If it is not possible to meet all of the screening and landscaping
regulations set forth in this subsection, the Zoning Administrator, at his or
her discretion, may approve an alternate plan.
   D.   Screening Requirements for Aboveground Service Facilities and
Utilities:
      1.   Aboveground Service Facilities that are less than four feet (4') in
all dimensions are not required to be screened.
      2.   Aboveground Service Facilities, Utilities and accessory structures
that are four feet (4') or greater in any dimension shall be screened in
accordance with the following provisions:
         a.   Aboveground service facilities, utilities, and accessory
structures that are less than four feet (4') in height, but exceed four feet
(4’) in some other direction, shall be screened with landscaping. Said
landscaping shall consist, at a minimum, of tall shrubs planted three feet (3')
apart around the perimeter of the aboveground service facility and accessory
structure.
         b.   Aboveground service facilities, utilities, and accessory
structures that are four feet (4') in height up to and including six feet (6')
in height shall be screened with a masonry wall or solid fence of the same
height. Fences shall be constructed of commercial grade wood, commercial grade
sheet metal or comparable materials as approved by the director of    community
development. Landscaping shall be provided in addition to the required
screening. Said landscaping shall consist, at a minimum, of tall shrubs planted
three feet (3') apart around the perimeter of the aboveground service facility
or accessory structure and its screening wall or fence.
      3.   Aboveground service facilities and accessory structures that exceed
six feet (6') in height shall be screened with a six foot (6') high masonry
wall or solid fence. Fences shall be constructed of commercial grade wood,
commercial grade sheet metal or comparable materials as approved by the
director of community development. Landscaping shall be provided in addition to
the required screening. Said landscaping shall consist of tall evergreen shrubs
that are a minimum of six feet (6') in height and spaced four feet (4') apart,
or evergreen trees that are a minimum of eight feet (8') in height and spaced
eight feet (8') apart.
      4.   As requested by and necessary to comply with surveillance provisions
of the United States Department of Homeland Security, the requirements of this
section
9-8-8 -D: Screening Requirements for Aboveground Service Facilities and
Utilities, may be waived by the Zoning Officer upon finding that such request
is otherwise in support of the health, safety and welfare, of the Village of
Woodridge and its residents.
      5.   If the screening requirements of this section
9-8-8 -D: Screening Requirements for Aboveground Service Facilities and
Utilities cannot be accommodated by an applicant, the Zoning Officer may
authorize an alternative plan for screening upon finding that such alternative
plan meets the intent of this section and mitigates, to the greatest extent
possible, potential adverse impacts on surrounding properties.
   E.   Screening of Loading Docks, Service Yards, and Exterior Work or Storage
Areas, Loading docks, service yards, and exterior work or storage areas shall
be screened from view from public rights-of-way and adjacent lots.
      1.   The screening shall consist of solid material screening or full
screening landscaping, having a minimum height of at least six (6’) feet.
      2.   When solid material screening is provided, intermittent or
foundation landscaping shall be provided, as approved by the Zoning
Administrator to mitigate visual impacts of the solid material screen.
   F.   Screening of Cargo Container Facilities: In addition to all other
related requirements of the Village code, Cargo Container Facilities in all
zoning districts shall be subject to the following:
      1.   Adjacent to Industrial Districts: Notwithstanding any provision
contained in this title to the contrary, interior side and rear landscape yards
adjacent to industrial districts shall provide a minimum ten feet (10') for
interior side and rear yard and shall contain each of the following screening
components:
         a.   Landscaping shall be provided in accordance with subsection
9-8-6 -A of this section.
         b.   A continuous berm, a commercial grade sightproof board fence or a
commercial grade masonry wall shall be provided along the length of the
interior side or rear lot line.
         c.   Said berm, fence or wall shall be a minimum of six feet (6') in
height. The finished side of the fence or wall shall be oriented toward the
abutting property. If a fence or wall is used as a screen, a five foot (5')
wide planting bed with landscaping material at least three feet (3') high shall
be located adjacent to the finished side of the fence or wall.
         d.   In lieu of the fence or wall, a screen planting area of a minimum
twenty feet (20') in width, containing a minimum of two (2) rows of evergreen
trees, may be installed. The evergreen trees shall be at least eight feet (8')
tall when planted. The rows shall be staggered, with a maximum of eight feet
(8') between rows, and shall be centered within the screen planting area. The
evergreen trees shall be spaced a maximum of ten feet (10') apart on center.
However, as may be determined through the Site Plan Review (Section
9-6-6 : Site Plan Review) process, trees may be required to be spaced closer to
ensure that narrower growing varieties will provide an effective screen. Should
the buffer area contain a continuous berm at least three feet (3') in height,
with a side slope not exceeding a ratio of three to one (3:1), the minimum
height of the required evergreen trees shall be six feet (6') when planted. The
final design of the screen planting area and the landscaping within it shall be
approved through the Site Plan Review process.
      2.   Adjacent to Nonindustrial Districts and Public Rights of Way:
Notwithstanding any provision contained in this title to the contrary, a
landscape yard with a minimum width of one hundred feet (100') shall be
provided adjacent to nonindustrial districts and public rights of way and shall
contain each of the following screening components:
         a.   Berm: A berm with a minimum height of fifteen feet (15'). The
berm shall be continuous throughout the landscape setback except it may be
interrupted to the extent necessary to allow for vehicular access.
         b.   Fence or Wall: A commercial grade sightproof board fence or
commercial grade masonry wall with a minimum height of six feet (6'). The fence
or wall shall be continuous throughout the landscape setback except it may be
interrupted to the extent necessary to allow for vehicular access, and it shall
be placed on the highest part of the berm to maximize its screening effect.
         c.   Landscaping: A minimum of three (3) shade trees, seven (7)
evergreen trees, four (4) ornamental trees, and thirty (30) tall shrubs shall
be planted for every one hundred (100) linear feet of landscape setback. Tall
shrubs provided in accordance with this provision shall have a minimum
installed height of three feet (3'). The landscaping shall be placed on the
berm between the fence or wall and the public right of way or nonresidential
district. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-8-9: PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING:
All parking lots designed for twenty (20) or more parking spaces, as specified
in Chapter 7 of this title, shall provide landscaping in accordance with the
provisions of this section. The design, planting materials, and safe use of
parking lot landscape designs shall be approved through consideration of the
Site Plan Review process (Section
9-6-6 : Site Plan Review).
   A.   General Parking Lot Landscaping:
      1.   The landscaping shall include, to the extent necessary, ground
cover, shrubs, hedges, ornamental trees and grasses, perennials, decorative
walls, or fencing.
      2.   All landscaping shall be permanently maintained in good condition,
satisfactory to the Village, with at least the same quality and quantity of
landscaping as initially approved. In the event that landscaping should die,
the property owner shall replace landscaping in a timely fashion, taking into
consideration the season of the year.
      3.   At the time of installation, landscaped materials shall be of the
following sizes:
         a.   Two and a half inches (2.5") DBH for deciduous shade trees.
         b.   Eight feet (8') tall for evergreen trees and ornamental trees.
         c.   Twenty-four inch (24") shrubs.
         d.   Gallon-sized perennials.
   B.   Interior Parking Lot Landscaping:
      1.   Required Landscaping Percentage:
         a.   At least seven and one-half percent (7.5%) of the parking area
shall be provided as interior landscaped area.
         b.   The parking area for the purposes of this section includes that
portion of a property used for the parking of vehicle and the driveways and
access points associated with such parking.
         c.   The required interior landscaping may include areas dedicated to
tree planting islands, and those portions of the lot that are not dedicated to
perimeter landscaping such as curbs, parking spaces and driveways.
      2.   Interior Parking Lot Design Standards:
         a.   Landscaping shall be dispersed throughout the parking area.
         b.   A portion of the required landscaping may be located so as to
provide screening of mechanical equipment or loading areas.
         c.   A landscaped island with at least one tree (as indicated in
subsection e below) shall be required at the end of all parking rows, and shall
be equal to one hundred and eighty square feet for a single row of parking or
three hundred and sixty square feet for a double row of parking.
         d.   A landscaped island with at least one tree shall be installed and
maintained a minimum every twenty parking spaces in order to avoid large
expanses of landscaped areas within the parking lot. Such landscape islands
shall be equal to one hundred and eighty square feet for a single row of
parking or three hundred and sixty square feet for a double row of parking.
         e.   A minimum of one (1) shade tree must be provided for every
landscaped island or landscaped area. In addition to the required shade trees,
a minimum of seventy-five percenty (75%) of every parking lot island or
landscaped area must be planted in live groundcover, shrubs, perennials, or
ornamental grasses.
         f.   In no case can there be less than one (1) tree for every three
thousand (3,000) square feet of parking area as defined in this section.
         g.   No hedge, wall or berm shall exceed three (3) feet in height
within ten (10) feet of any driveway opening.
         h.   Fire hydrants in parking lots shall be located within landscape
islands as determined necessary through the Site Plan Review process.
   C.   Required Perimeter Parking Lot Landscaping:
      1.   Street Front Landscaping:
         a.   Frontage along the entirety of any parking area adjacent to any
street shall be landscaped with a minimum five (5)-foot wide, landscaped area
with a continuous one hundred percent (100%) screening of three feet (3') high
shrubs or hedges provided between the property line and parking area.
         b.   Plantings shall be no less than three feet (3') high within one
(1) year of planting and shall be maintained as such.
         c.   Curbing or parking blocks shall be installed to provide a two
foot (2’) overhang that prevents parking of cars from damaging landscaping.
      2.   When a parking lot abuts a property zoned or used for residential
use, landscaping a minimum of six feet (6') in height at installation and
maintained at such height shall be provided along that portion of the parking
lot abutting the residential property.
         a.   Plant materials, when used as a screen, shall consist of dense
evergreen plants and any mixture as approved through the Site Plan Review
process, in order to adequately shield adjacent residences from lights, noises,
or other potential adverse impacts.
         b.   Shade trees. Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of
not more than forty feet (40') apart along that portion of the parking lot
abutting the residential property. Such trees may be clustered or spaced
linearly as determined appropriate through the Site Plan Review process.
         c.   Fencing: Where landscaping is unlikely to survive or provide
adequate screening, a six foot (6’) high fence may be approved as part of the
Site Plan Review process or in the case of a Special Use or Planned
Development, as approved by the Village Board upon recommendation from the Plan
Commission. Such fence shall be constructed of wood, composite or other
material, as determined by the Village approval process.
      3.   Ground cover. Except where occupied by planting beds, all yard
perimeter landscaping areas shall be sodded or seeded.
      4.   Existing vegetation that meets, in whole or in part, the purposes of
perimeter landscaping above may be applied toward requirements. (Ord. 2024-6,
3-7-2024)
9-8-10: BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
Best Management Practices (BMPs), including those described in this Section,
are encouraged in developments through appropriate application of landscape
design, site construction and landscape maintenance practices.
   A.   Applicability: Best Management Practices shall be incorporated into the
landscape design for all newly constructed parking lots located in the B-1, B-
2, B-3, ORI, and RBC Districts.
   B.   Sustainable Development Standards: Green design considers the
environment and site during design, construction, operations and maintenance.
In evaluating site plans with BMPs in the Site Plan Review process (Section
9-6-6 : Site Plan Review), the Village shall consider all relevant engineering
and design standards as well as the standards of this Section. BMPs shall be
evaluated in regard to sustainable building design, site planning, streetscape/
landscape design and infrastructure engineering. The following considerations
should be included in site and building design and construction when
incorporating BMPs:
      1.   Optimize building orientation for heat gain, solar shading,
daylighting and natural ventilation.
      2.   Design landscape, hardscape and building roofs to create comfortable
micro-climates and reduce heat island effects.
      3.   Select native landscape materials and reuse rainwater and graywater
where feasible and allowed by Code to reduce or eliminate the need for potable
water in the irrigation of landscape.
      4.   Increase water efficiency through the use of high-efficiency systems
and fixtures or through rainwater and graywater reuse as allowed by Code to
decrease use of the Village’s water supply and wastewater system.
      5.   Design all sites and buildings to be "transit-supportive" to
facilitate access to existing and future transit services.
      6.   Use sustainable, rapidly renewable or recycled building materials.
      7.   Use building materials manufactured within the region.
      8.   Design and select lighting and equipment for efficient energy use.
      9.   Minimize off-site light pollution.
      10.   Create healthy, comfortable indoor environments through increased
natural lighting, control of thermal systems, reduced VOCs (volatile organic
compounds) and improved indoor air-quality and ventilation.
      11.   Maximize on-site stormwater management through landscaping and
permeable pavement as well as shared facilities.
      12.   Maintain or reduce the peak stormwater discharge rate and quantity.
      13.   Enact plans to control erosion, sedimentation and dust during
construction.
      14.   Conduct commissioning of building energy systems to ensure desired
performance.
      15.   Include on-site renewable energy sources (such as solar, wind,
geothermal) where feasible.
      16.   Reduce or eliminate heating, ventilation, air conditioning and
refrigeration equipment that emits compounds that contribute to ozone depletion
and climate change.
      17.   Provide for an easily accessible, dedicated area for the collection
and storage of materials for recycling.
      18.   Incorporate universal design into building plans where feasible.
   C.   Permeable Pavement and Pavers: Permeable pavement and pavers are an
alternative method of hard surface that allows stormwater runoff to filter
through voids material. The use of this porous material can help improve the
natural cleaning and infiltration of water, reducing the amount of stormwater
flowing into streets and down storm drains. Use of this material may be allowed
in designated drive or path areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3002.png]
 
   D.   Bioswales or Retention Ponds: Bioswales and Retention ponds are
vegetated landscaped depressions that capture, treat, and slow down stormwater
runoff. They provide opportunities to treat stormwater on-site and are a more
aesthetically pleasing environment than the typical required concrete
stormwater fixtures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3004.png]
 
   E.   Parking Lot Drainage: Stormwater drainage is an integral component in
the design of parking lots. Stormwater may be infiltrated into the parking lot
planting areas and then drained to a specified area. This approach can clean,
detail, and direct stormwater.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3006.png]
 
   F.   Green Roofs: Green roofs incorporate plants into the roofing system to
create pervious surface areas and capture stormwater runoff. These systems can
serve as short term stormwater management to reduce, delay, and clean
stormwater runoff from a site. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
9-9-1: How to Use This Chapter
9-9-2: Statement of Purpose; Determination of Nonconforming Status
9-9-3: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
9-9-4: Continuance Of Nonconforming Buildings, Structures, And Uses
9-9-5: Restrictions On Nonconforming Buildings And Structures, And On Uses
Thereof
9-9-6: Condemnation Of Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
9-9-7: Nonconforming Use Of Buildings Or Structures
9-9-8: Nonconforming Use Of Land
9-9-9: Limited Nonconformity Exceptions
9-9-10: Plan Commission Authority To Grant Variances For Other Expansions;
Jurisdiction On Appeal
9-9-1: HOW TO USE THIS CHAPTER:
When properties are first established as part of a subdivision or otherwise
created, they must meet the zoning standards in place at that time. Similarly,
the structures built on those properties must meet “bulk standards” related to
setback and height. Finally, the uses of those properties must meet the
standards of the zoning ordinance. Over time it is possible that changes made
to the zoning ordinance will make a property no longer in compliance with the
zoning standards. This is known as becoming “nonconforming.” It is also
possible that a property can change, as when a portion of the property is
acquired by a government agency for a public purpose. The intent of the zoning
code is to allow nonconforming uses, properties, or structures to remain and be
used as when they were established. It is also possible to maintain and even
expand some aspects of the use or building, so long as the nonconformity is not
expanded. This section spells out the details of these situations. (Ord. 2024-
6, 3-7-2024)
9-9-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE; DETERMINATION OF NONCONFORMING STATUS:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming buildings, structures, lots, and uses thereof, and to specify
those circumstances and conditions under which those nonconforming lots shall
be used and those nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses shall be
gradually eliminated upon reaching the end of their respective normal useful
life, in accordance with the authority, set forth in Section 11-13-17 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-13-17, as may be amended from time to
time.
   B.   In accordance with the provisions of this Section, it is hereby
declared to be the intent of the village to eliminate nonconforming buildings,
structures, uses, and wherever possible, nonconforming lots of record.
   C.   The burden of proving that a nonconformity exists, as opposed to a
violation of this chapter, rests entirely with the property owner. However, the
zoning officer will maintain a current inventory of all known nonconforming
lots, buildings, structures, and uses within the village, including those
created after the adoption of any partial or comprehensive amendment to this
chapter.
   D.   The zoning officer is authorized to determine whether adequate proof of
nonconforming status has been provided by the property owner.
   E.   Building permits, lawfully recorded plats, aerial photography owned by
the village and other official government records that indicated lawful
establishment of the lot, building, structure or use constitute conclusive
evidence of nonconforming status. If such forms of conclusive evidence are not
available, the zoning officer is authorized to consider whether other forms of
evidence provided by the property owner are reliable and adequate to document
nonconforming status. Examples of evidence that may be considered include, but
are not limited to, utility billing records and leasing records. (Ord. 2024-6,
3-7-2024)
9-9-3: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
   A.   Contiguous nonconforming lots in single ownership.
      1.   When two (2) or more contiguous lots, or a combination of contiguous
lots and portions of lots, are under single ownership, and if all or part of
the lots do not meet the requirements for lot width and area for the zoning
district in which they are located, the land involved will be considered to be
an undivided parcel for the purpose of this chapter. No portion of this
undivided parcel will be used or sold which does not meet lot width and area
requirements for the zoning district in which the undivided parcel is located,
nor shall any division of the undivided parcel be made which creates any lot
width or area below the requirements for the zoning district in which they are
located.
      2.   The consolidation of nonconforming lots in single ownership required
under this Subsection
9-9-3  A. must follow the requirements for preparing and obtaining approval of
subdivision plats set forth in Chapter 3 of the Subdivision Regulations
Ordinance for the Village of Woodridge, Illinois (1976), as amended. A plat
consolidating nonconforming lots in single ownership will be recorded in the
office of the county recorder where the consolidated lots are located. The
owner will be solely responsible for the cost of recordation.
      3.   The provisions for consolidation of lots in single ownership under
this Subsection
9-9-3  A. will not be required unless and until the owner of contiguous
nonconforming lots files any application required under this chapter or Titles
8 or 10 of the Woodridge Village Code, as amended. Except that lot
consolidations are not required for fences, patios, decks, stoops, or accessory
structures under two hundred and fifty (250) square feet.
   B.   Single lots or parcel of land. When any single lot or parcel of land
does not meet the requirements for lot width and area for the zoning district
in which it is located, it shall be used only in accordance with the following
requirements.
      1.   In any district in which single-family, two-family or three-family
dwellings are permitted, said buildings or structures and permitted accessory
buildings may be erected on a nonconforming lot. However, lot area, widths, and
yard requirements shall be not less than eighty percent (80%) of the minimum
required dimensions for the zoning district in which the single lot or parcel
is located. Any greater reduction than twenty percent (20%) shall be obtained
only through action by the Plan Commission (see section 13.09 of this chapter).
      2.   In any district in which multiple-family dwellings or nonresidential
buildings or structures are permitted, these buildings or structures and
permitted accessory buildings may be erected on a nonconforming lot. However,
lot area, width, and yard requirements shall be not less than ninety percent
(90%) of the minimum required dimensions for the zoning district in which the
single lot or parcel is located. Any greater reduction than ten percent (10%)
shall be obtained only through action by the Plan Commission (see section 13.09
of this chapter).
      3.   Use district changes. The provisions in this Section
9-9-3  shall also apply to any lots made nonconforming by any change in the
boundary of a zoning district. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-9-4: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, AND USES:
Any nonconforming building, structure, or use which existed lawfully at the
time of the effective of this chapter and which remains nonconforming and any
building, structure, or use which shall become nonconforming upon the adoption
of this chapter or of any subsequent amendment to this Code, may be continued,
some indefinitely, others for specified and respective amortization periods,
subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Exempted Buildings, Structures, and Uses.
      1.   No building, structure, or use lawfully established on the effective
date of this chapter shall be subject to the amortization provisions of this
section
9-9-4  solely by reason of being nonconforming with respect to the bulk and
other standards prescribed in this chapter for any of the following:
         (1)   Floor area ratio;
         (2)   Yards, front, interior side, exterior side, or rear;
         (3)   Lot area per dwelling unit;
         (4)   Lot width;
         (5)   Gross floor area;
         (6)   Building height; or
         (7)   Off-street parking or off-street loading spaces.
      2.   No dwelling lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter
shall be subject to the amortization provisions of this section
9-9-4 .
      3.   No building, structure or use located in a Business Zoning District
shall be subject to the amortization provisions of this chapter if it is a
permitted building, structure or use in any Business Zoning District, except as
provided for elsewhere in this chapter.
      4.   No building, structure or use lawfully established on the effective
date of this chapter and located in any Industrial Zoning District shall be
subject to the amortization provisions of this section.
      5.   For the purposes of this section a building or structure lawfully
constructed or established on the effective date of this chapter shall be
deemed to include any building or structure for which a building permit has
been lawfully issued, and on which construction is begun within the required
period of time allowed by the unexpired building permit then in effect.
   B.   Amortization.
      1.   The following nonconforming buildings, structures, including signs,
and uses shall be subject to amortization provisions herein set forth below:
         a.   In residence districts, any nonconforming principal and accessory
building or structure, all or substantially all of which is designed and used
or intended for a permitted or special use that is allowed only in a
nonresidential district.
         b.   In all other districts, any nonconforming principal or accessory
building or structure, all or substantially all of which is designed and used
or intended for a permitted or special use that is not allowed in that
district.
      2.   All nonconforming buildings, structures and uses as set forth in
subsections B.1.a and B.1.b of this section that were nonconforming prior to
and remain or become nonconforming upon the effective date of this Code and any
amendments to this Code, and that have an assessed valuation of more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) In accordance with the types of construction
classifications set forth in Title 8 of the Woodridge Village Code, as amended,
must be removed in accordance with the following amortization period: Type of
Construction Amortization Period Fireproof construction and noncombustible
construction the later of forty (40)-years from the date of original building
permit or twenty-five (25)-years from effective date of this Code, or
amendments to this Code Exterior masonry wall construction the later of thirty
(30)-years from date of original building permit or twenty (20)-years from
effective date of this Code, or any amendments hereto this Code. Frame
construction the later of twenty-five (25)-years from the date of original
building permit or fifteen (15)-years from effective date of this Code, or any
amendments to this Code. Thereafter, the property may only be used in
conformance with the uses and standards permitted in the districts in which it
is located. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-9-5: RESTRICTIONS ON NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES, AND ON USES
THEREOF:
Any lawfully existing building or structure which does not conform with the
regulations of the district in which it is located shall be subject to the
following regulations:
   A.   Repairs and Alterations.
      1.   Ordinary repairs and alterations may be made to a nonconforming
building or structure. However, no structural alterations except those required
by law shall be made in or to such building or structure, all or substantially
all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in the district in
which it is located. Structural alterations may be made in order to make the
building or structure and use thereof conform to the regulations of the
district in which it is located. For the purpose of this section, ordinary
repairs shall include the replacement of storage tanks where the safety of
operation of the installation requires such replacement.
      2.   A nonconforming building in a Residence District which contains
residential uses may be altered in any way to improve livability provided no
structural alterations shall be made which would increase the number of
dwelling units or the bulk of the building.
   B.   Additions and enlargements. A building or structure which is
nonconforming as to bulk, or all or substantially all of which is designed or
intended for a use not permitted in the district in which it is located, shall
not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless such nonconforming building or
structure and use thereof, including all additions and enlargements thereto,
are made to conform to all the regulations of the zoning district in which it
is located.
   C.   Moving of nonconforming building or structure. No building or structure
which does not conform to all of the regulations of the district in which it is
located shall be moved in whole or in part to any other location unless every
portion of such building or structure is moved. The elevation of the ground at
the original site shall be restored to the natural grade of the lot. The use of
the building or structure at the new site shall be made to conform to all
regulations of the district into which it is moved.
   D.   Restoration of damaged nonconforming building or structure. A
nonconforming building or structure that is:
      1.   Completely destroyed by fire, or other natural or man created
casualty, will only be reconstructed and used in conformance with the current
district regulations where it is located;
      2.   Damaged by fire, or other natural or man created casualty, to an
extent that is more than fifty percent (50%) of its most current assessed
valuation, as established by the township assessor where the building or
structure is located, will only be reconstructed and used in conformance with
the current district regulations where it is located;
      3.   Damaged by fire, or other natural or man created casualty, to an
extent that is less than fifty percent (50%) of its most current assessed
valuation, as established by the township assessor where the building or
structure is located, may be restored to its condition and used for the same
purpose present immediately before the casualty event. Provided, however, that
any:
         a.   Nonconforming restoration is completed; and
         b.   Resumption of nonconforming use begins within three hundred and
sixty-five (365) calendar days after the date of the casualty event.
   In the event that the restoration is not completed and the use is not
resumed within three hundred and sixty-five (365) calendar days after the date
of the casualty event, the building will only be reconstructed and used in
conformance with the current district regulations where it is located.
   E.   Discontinuance of use of nonconforming building or structure. A
nonconforming building, structure, or portion thereof, which is vacant on the
effective date of this chapter or thereafter becomes vacant and remains
unoccupied, and is not used for a continuous period of six (6) months, shall
not thereafter be occupied or used except by a use which conforms to the use
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   F.   Expansion of a conforming use in a nonconforming building or structure.
The conforming use of a part of a nonconforming building or structure, may be
expanded within the building or structure in which the use is presently
located. However, no changes or structural alterations shall be made unless
these changes or structural alterations and their use conform to all the
regulations of the zoning district in which the building or structure is
located.
   G.   Change of a conforming use in nonconforming building or structure. The
conforming use of a nonconforming building or structure may be changed to
another use permitted in the zoning district in which the building or structure
is located. However, no change shall extend or otherwise modify any provision
made in this chapter for elimination of such nonconforming building or
structure and the use thereof. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-9-6: CONDEMNATION OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   The village, at any time and from time to time, by ordinance duly
enacted and in pursuant to the provisions set forth in Section 11-13-17 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-13-17, as may be amended from time to
time, may:
      1.   Remove or demolish all such buildings and structures so acquired;
      2.   Hold and use any remaining property for public purposes; and
      3.   Sell, lease, or exchange such property as is not required for public
purposes, subject to the provisions of this chapter or any amendment to this
chapter.
   B.   No such acquisition by condemnation shall be made until such time as
the Plan Commission, at the request of the corporate authorities, or upon its
own initiative, shall have made a study of the area within which the
nonconforming building or structure is located and shall have filed a written
report on such study with the corporate authorities. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-9-7: NONCONFORMING USE OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   Expansion of nonconforming use. The nonconforming use of a part of a
conforming building or structure, shall not be expanded or extended into any
other portion of such building or structure.
   B.   Discontinuance of a nonconforming use. If a nonconforming use of a
conforming building or structure, is discontinued for a period of ninety (90)
days, it shall not be renewed. Any subsequent use of the building or structure
shall conform to the use regulations of the zoning district in which the
premises are located.
   C.   Change of a nonconforming use. The nonconforming use of a part of a
conforming building or structure shall not be changed to any other
nonconforming use. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-9-8: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
The nonconforming use of land not involving a building or structure, or in
connection with which any building or structure is incidental or accessory to
the principal use of the land, may be continued subject to the following
provisions:
   A.   Expansion. A nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded or
extended beyond the area it occupies.
   B.   Discontinuance. If a nonconforming use of land is discontinued for a
period of ninety (90) consecutive days, it shall not thereafter be renewed. Any
subsequent use of the land shall conform to the regulations of the zoning
district in which the land is located.
   C.   Change of use. A nonconforming use of land shall not be changed to any
other use except to a use permitted in the zoning district in which the land is
located.
   D.   Elimination of nonconforming use of land. The nonconforming use of land
shall be discontinued and cease after the effective date of this code in
accordance with the following amortization schedule, except that in any
residential district, as established in section
9-4-1  of this code, the allowable term will be reduced by fifty percent (50%):
 
Nature of Nonconformity                  Amortization Period
No buildings or structures are used in
connection with the nonconforming use of 1 year
land
Buildings or structures or other
improvements used in connection with the
nonconforming use of land are accessory  2 years
or incidental and have an assessed
valuation of not more than two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00)
Buildings or structures or other
improvements used in connection with the
nonconforming use of land are accessory  5 years
or incidental and have an assessed
valuation of more than two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00)
Where a nonconforming use of land is     Date on which the nonconforming use of
accessory to the nonconforming use of a  the building or structure is
building or structure                    discontinued.
 
   (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-9-9: LIMITED NONCONFORMITY EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Zoning officer authority. The zoning officer may authorize, upon
application in specific cases, an exception to the nonconformity requirements
of this chapter 9 permitting an increase:
      re occupied by a nonconforming use as are necessary and essential to
enable the owner of the use to comply with Federal, state, or village
requirements of law; or
      2.   In the existing nonconforming use on an existing lot where:
         a.   As a result of a property owner acquiring additional adjoining
property; or
         b.   An act of government through vacation of right-of-way that
creates additional private land area abutting the existing lot.
   B.   Procedure and required findings. All applications for a limited
nonconformity exception under this section
9-9-9  will be reviewed according to the following procedures:
      1.   Initiation. The owner or owners of the subject property or the
owner’s authorized agent may initiate an application for limited nonconformity
exception.
      2.   Pre-application meeting. A pre-application meeting with zoning
officer is optional before submittal of a limited nonconformity exception
application. The zoning officer’s opinions or comments made during a pre-
application meeting are informational only and do not represent a commitment on
behalf of the village regarding a final decision on the limited nonconformity
exception application. However, at the pre-application meeting the zoning
officer may waive application submittal requirements or request that additional
information be submitted.
      3.   Application and Fees:
         a.   Submittal in writing. All applications for a limited
nonconforming exception will be submitted in writing to the zoning officer. The
applicant will pay all required fees at the same time the application is
submitted.
         b.   Concurrent applications. The applicant may submit a limited
nonconformity exception application concurrent with the submittal of other
applications. In no case, however, shall a building permit be issued until the
limited nonconforming exception according to this Section
9-9-9  is approved.
         c.   Review, referral and final decision. The zoning officer may refer
the limited nonconforming exception application to other affected or interested
state and local agencies, village departments and parties for review and
comment, as deemed necessary to make a decision on the application. The zoning
officer will make a final decision to approve, approve with conditions, or deny
the application, taking into consideration relevant comments. Wherever higher
or more restrictive standards are established by the provisions of this
chapter, the zoning officer may take these provisions into consideration in
making a final decision.
      4.   Review criteria. The zoning officer will use the following criteria
in making a decision on an application for a limited nonconformity exception
application:
         a.   Application is consistent with all prior approvals for the
subject property.
         b.   Application complies with all other applicable regulations in
this chapter except those specifically the subject of the limited nonconforming
exception.
         c.   Use is a nonconforming use as defined in this chapter, is in full
compliance with all requirements of this chapter applicable to nonconforming
uses, and is not a nonconforming use which is to be terminated by operation of
law.
      5.   Timing for decisions. Any decision for a limited nonconforming
exception will be made by the zoning officer within forty-five (45)-days after
receipt of a completed application, as determined by the zoning officer, unless
the property owner, or his or her agent, and zoning officer agree in writing to
a longer review period. Failure of the zoning officer to issue his or her
written decision with forty-five (45)-days, or as may be extended by agreement
of the property owner, or his or her agent, and zoning officer, will be a
decision to deny the application.
      6.   Limited nonconforming exceptions personal to owner. A limited
nonconforming exception authorized by this Section
9-9-9  is personal to the property owner and is not transferable, and will only
run with the land after construction of any authorized building or structure
and only for the life of such structure or structures. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-9-10: PLAN COMMISSION AUTHORITY TO GRANT VARIANCES FOR OTHER EXPANSIONS;
JURISDICTION ON APPEAL:
   A.   The Plan Commission may grant other exceptions to the nonconforming
provision of this Chapter 9 that are not otherwise limited nonconforming
exceptions, as provided in Section
9-9-9  of this Chapter, under its power to grant variances subject to the
procedures and applicable criteria stated in Section
9-6-4 .C of this Code.
   B.   The Plan Commission will hear all appeals from any decision of the
zoning officer under this Chapter 9, subject to the procedures and applicable
criteria stated in Section
9-6-4 .B of this Code. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
CHAPTER 10
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-10-1: Purpose And Applicability
9-10-2: Provisions Regarding Noise
9-10-3: Earthborne Vibration
9-10-4: Air Pollution (Smoke And Particulate Matter)
9-10-5: Toxic Matter
9-10-6: Odorous Matter
9-10-7: Fire And Explosion Hazards
9-10-8: Lighting
9-10-9: Water Pollution
9-10-10: Sewage Waste
9-10-11: Electromagnetic Interference
9-10-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
This Chapter provides that properties in nonresidential zoning districts or
nonresidential uses in residential zoning districts shall not create dangerous,
injurious, or noxious condition that may adversely affect adjoining properties,
surrounding areas or other portions of the Village. All such uses may be
conducted so long as acceptable measures and safeguards are employed to limit
potential adverse impacts to acceptable limits, as established by the following
performance standards and other requirements of the Village Code.
   A.   Any use established in nonresidential districts shall be operated in
such a manner as to comply with the applicable performance standards of this
Chapter and other requirements of the Village Code and as may be applicable.
   B.   No use already established on the effective date of this Title shall be
so altered or modified as to conflict with this Chapter and other requirements
of the Village Code and as may be applicable. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-10-2: PROVISIONS REGARDING NOISE:
The following requirements shall apply to all nonresidential uses:
   A.   Sound pressure levels shall be in keeping with current State of
Illinois standards as prescribed by the Illinois Pollution Control Board
(Subtitle H: Noise), as may be amended from time to time.
   B.   Requirements of the Village of Woodridge Building Code Section:
8-1A-16  and Nuisance Ordinance Section: 4-1-1.N shall apply.
   C.   Exceptions: The following activity shall be exempted from the rules and
regulations of this Subsection
9-10-2 -A.
      1.   Sound emitted from emergency warning or safety devices.
      2.   Sound emitted from equipment being used for construction between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., on any day
except Sunday, or for such additional hours as may be authorized by the Zoning
Officer.
      3.   Sound emitted from trucks and vehicles entering or leaving
industrial zoned property, except as may be caused by idling engines, off the
road vehicles, mixers on ready mix concrete trucks, and trailer mounted
refrigeration units. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-10-3: EARTHBORNE VIBRATION:
The following requirements shall apply to all nonresidential uses:
   A.   Any process or equipment that produces intense earth-shaking vibrations
- such as are created by drop forges, hydraulic surges or other processes -
shall be set back at least five hundred feet (500') from the property
boundaries on all sides. However, in no case shall such vibrations be allowed
to create a Public Nuisance or hazard beyond the property boundaries.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of Subsection
9-10-3  A. shall not apply to sound emitted from equipment being used for
permitted construction between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. of each day. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-10-4: AIR POLLUTION (SMOKE AND PARTICULATE MATTER):
Any visual emissions, particulate matter emissions, odor, airborne toxic
material and other air pollution shall meet the current standards of the
Illinois Pollution Control Board; Title 35, Subtitle B, "Air Pollution",
Chapter I, Pollution Control Board, as may be amended from time to time. (Ord.
2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-10-5: TOXIC MATTER:
No use shall for any period of time discharge across the boundaries of the lot
wherein it is located toxic or noxious matter in such concentrations as to be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare, or
cause injury or damage to property, resident or business. Standards by which to
determine impacts to public health, safety and welfare may be drawn from the
Village of Woodridge Nuisance Ordinance (Title 4, Chapter 1 of the Woodridge
Village Code), state or federal agencies, or other organizations as may be
deemed most appropriate by the Zoning Officer. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-10-6: ODOROUS MATTER:
The release of materials intrinsically odorous or capable of being odorous,
either by bacterial decomposition or chemical reaction, which renders it
perceptible from beyond the lot shall be prohibited. The emission of odorous
matter in such a quantity as to be readily detectable at any point along lot
lines, or as to produce a public nuisance or hazard beyond lot lines is
prohibited. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-10-7: FIRE AND EXPLOSION HAZARDS:
   A.   In all nonresidential districts, the storage, utilization or
manufacture of solid materials or products ranging from incombustible to
moderate burning is permitted.
   B.   The storage, utilization or manufacture of solid materials or products
ranging from free or active burning to intense burning is permitted, provided
one of the following conditions is met:
      1.   Said material or products shall be stored, utilized or manufactured
within completely enclosed buildings having incombustible exterior walls and
protected with an automatic fire extinguishing system complying with
installation standards prescribed by the National Fire Protection Association;
or if the materials, goods, or products are liquids, the protection thereof
shall be in conformity with standards prescribed by the National Fire
Protection Association.
      2.   All such buildings or structures shall be set back no less than
fifty feet (50') from lot lines, or in-lieu-thereof, all such buildings or
structures shall be protected throughout by an automatic sprinkler system (or a
carbon dioxide system of equal protection).
   C.   The storage, utilization or manufacture of flammable liquids shall be
permitted in accordance with the following table, exclusive of storage of
finished products in original, sealed containers, which shall be unrestricted.
Flammable liquid and gas storage tanks shall be setback no less than feet (50')
from all lot lines.
 
   Table 10-1: Total Capacity of Flammable Materials Permitted (in Gallons)
                                                                         Aboveground Underground
Materials having a closed cup flash-point over 187° but less than 300° 20,000      100,000
Fahrenheit
From and including 105° to and including 187° Fahrenheit               10,000      100,000
Materials having a closed cup flash-point of less than 105° Fahrenheit  3,000       100,000
 
   When flammable gases are stored, utilized or manufactured and measured in
cubic feet, the quantity in cubic feet at standard temperature and pressure
shall not exceed thirty (30) times the quantities listed above. (Ord. 2024-6,
3-7-2024)
9-10-8: LIGHTING:
   A.   Photometric Plan Required: A photometric plan shall be required for all
land development applications where outdoor lighting is required or proposed,
except for single-family residential developments where all streets are in
public rights of way. The plan must show the location, mounting height,
orientation, manufacturer, model number, photograph or catalog cut, light
output in initial lumens, shielding or glare reduction devices, lamp type, and
control devices for all outdoor lighting including wall mounted lighting. The
plan must show the levels of illumination in foot-candles (fc) at ground level
over the entire impacted area of the subject property and to all property
lines.
   B.   Shielding Requirement: Any luminaire used for outdoor lighting shall
have a fully shielded fixture, except for those fixtures used for sports field
lighting.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3008.png]
 
   C.   Light Source Requirement: On property abutting a residential use, no
direct light source (bulb) shall be visible at the property line at ground
level. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the above regulation shall not be
applicable to the light source from public streetlights, common area street
lighting abutting individual lots, units or buildings within that residential
development, or sports field lighting.
   D.   High Pressure Sodium Requirement: Any luminaire used for outdoor
lighting shall use high pressure sodium, except for those luminaires used for
sports field lighting and other lighting required by county, state or federal
law. High pressure sodium luminaires may be substituted with an alternative
luminaire not exceeding four thousand Kelvin (4,000°K) for new or replacement
lighting installations. New and replacement lighting sources are subject to the
requirements provided in this chapter.
   E.   Illumination Requirements: All outdoor lighting shall be subject to the
minimum security code in title 8 of this code. Except as otherwise provided
elsewhere in this section for sports fields, for all nonresidential uses and
residential uses in developments with common area lighting, exposed sources of
light shall be controlled so that direct and indirect illumination from any
source shall not exceed one- tenth (0.1) foot-candle at lot lines abutting
residential uses or one foot-candle at lot lines abutting nonresidential uses.
In residential developments with common area lighting, the lot line foot-candle
requirements shall apply only to the perimeter of the development and shall not
apply to individual lots, units or buildings within the development.
   F.   Entrance/Exit: The maximum allowable light level measured at the point
of intersection of an entrance drive of a nonresidential use with an adjacent
street shall not exceed four (4) footcandles.
   G.   Sports Fields: Lighting levels for sports fields in conjunction with
parks, recreational areas and recreational establishments shall comply with the
following provisions:
      1.   Sports field lighting may be lit only during the hours between dusk
and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
      2.   When the sports field lights are on, light levels shall not exceed a
maximum of nine (9) footcandles measured at the lot line abutting both
residential and nonresidential districts and an average of three (3) foot-
candles over that portion of the lot line that is illuminated by the sports
field lights abutting both residential and nonresidential districts.
      3.   When the sports field lights are not on, regardless of the time of
day, and for those portions of the property line not illuminated by the sports
field lights, the light levels shall not exceed two-tenths (0.2) foot-candle at
lot lines abutting residential uses and one footcandle at lot lines abutting
nonresidential uses.
   H.   Under Canopy Lighting: All under canopy lighting must be recessed to
reduce glare on surrounding properties. The lighting level under canopies shall
not exceed a maximum of fifty (50) foot-candles.
   Example of fully shielded fixture
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3010.png]
 
   I.   Exempt Outdoor Lighting: The following outdoor lighting applications
are exempt from all requirements of this chapter:
      1.   Underwater lighting used for the illumination of swimming pools and
fountains;
      2.   Lighting required by municipal, county, state, or Federal
regulations;
      3.   Public streetlights on public rights of way as required by title 10
of this code;
      4.   Temporary lighting used for holiday decoration;
      5.   Decorative yard, landscaping, and security lighting in residential
districts when the light output does not exceed one thousand one hundred
(1,100) lumens.
   J.   Nonconforming Lighting: All lighting fixtures subject to this title
shall be brought into conformity at such time as a fixture is replaced, changed
or added, with the exception of routine maintenance and bulb replacement of
equal light output. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-10-9: WATER POLLUTION:
All land uses shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the
State of Illinois Pollution Control Board regarding water pollution, Title 35,
Subtitle C, entitled "Water Pollution", as amended from time to time. (Ord.
2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-10-10: SEWAGE WASTE:
Sewers and sewage discharge shall meet the appropriate Village codes and all
IEPA requirements. Example of glare reduced by recessed lighting. (Ord. 2024-6,
3-7-2024)
9-10-11: ELECTROMAGNETIC INTERFERENCE:
Electromagnetic interference from any equipment or business operations shall
not adversely affect the operation of any equipment located adjacent or nearby
properties. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
CHAPTER 11
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-11-1: Sign Code Intent And Purpose
9-11-2: Application
9-11-3: Measurements And Calculations
9-11-4: General Design And Maintenance Standards
9-11-5: Permanent Signs
9-11-6: Temporary Signs
9-11-7: Message Centers
9-11-1: SIGN CODE INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to set out regulations for the
erection and maintenance of signs while preserving the right of free speech and
expression.
   B.   Scope. The regulations of this chapter shall provide a balanced and
fair legal framework for design, construction, and placement of signs that:
      1.   Promotes the safety of persons and property by ensuring that signs
do not create a hazard by:
         a.   Collapsing, catching fire, or otherwise decaying;
         b.   Confusing or distracting motorists; or
         c.   Impairing drivers’ ability to see pedestrians, obstacles, or
other vehicles, or to read traffic signs;
      2.   Promotes the efficient communication of messages, and ensures that
persons exposed to signs:
         a.   Are not overwhelmed by the number of messages presented; and
         b.   Are able to exercise freedom of choice to observe or ignore said
messages according to the observer’s purpose;
      3.   Protects the public welfare and enhances the appearance and economic
value of the landscape by protecting scenic views and avoiding sign clutter
that can compromise the character, quality, and viability of commercial
corridors;
      4.   Ensures that signs are compatible with their surroundings, and
prevents the construction of signs that are a nuisance to occupants of adjacent
and contiguous property due to brightness, reflectivity, bulk, or height;
      5.   Ensures that signs are aesthetically pleasing, of appropriate scale,
and integrated with the built environment, in order to meet the objectives
related to the quality and character and development set forth in the
comprehensive plan;
      6.   Enhances property values and business opportunities;
      7.   Assists in wayfinding; and
      8.   Provides fair and consistent permitting and enforcement.
   C.   Authority. The Village Board finds that:
      1.   The village has the authority to regulate signs under the United
States Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the Zoning
Division of the Illinois Municipal Code;
      2.   This chapter advances important and substantial government
interests;
      3.   The regulations set out in this chapter are unrelated to the
suppression of constitutionally protected free expression and do not involve
the content of protected messages which may be displayed on signs, nor do they
involve the viewpoint of individual speakers;
      4.   The incidental restriction on the freedom of speech is no greater
than is essential to the furtherance of the interests protected by this
chapter; and
      5.   Certain types of speech are not protected by the First Amendment due
to the harm that they cause to individuals or the community, and speech that is
harmful to minors may be prohibited in places that are accessible to minors.
   D.   General Findings of Fact. The Village Board finds that:
      1.   The ability to display signs of reasonable size and dimensions is
vital to the health and sustainability of many businesses, and the display of
signs with noncommercial messages is a traditional component of the freedom of
speech, but the constitutional guarantee of free speech may be limited by
appropriate and constrained regulation that is unrelated to the expression
itself;
      2.   The village has an important and substantial interest in preventing
sign clutter (which is the proliferation of signs of increasing size and
dimensions as a result of competition among property owners for the attention
of passing motorists), because sign clutter degrades the character of the
community, makes the community a less attractive place for commercial and
private investment, and dilutes or obscures messages displayed along the
village’s streets by creating visual confusion and aesthetic blight;
      3.   Sign clutter can be prevented by regulations that balance the
legitimate interests of individual property owners to convey their commercial
and noncommercial messages against the comparable needs of adjacent and nearby
property owners and the interest of the community as a whole in providing for a
high-quality community character;
      4.   Temporary signs that are not constructed of weather-resistant
materials are often damaged or destroyed by wind, rain, and sun, and after such
damage or destruction, degrade the aesthetics of the village’s streets if they
are not removed;
      5.   The village has an important and substantial interest in keeping its
rights-of-way clear of obstructions and litter;
      6.   The village has an important and substantial interest in protecting
the health of its tree canopy, which contributes to the character and value of
the community; and
      7.   The uncontrolled use of off-premises outdoor advertising signs and
their location, density, size, shape, motion, illumination, and demand for
attention can be injurious to the purposes of this chapter and destructive to
community character and property values, and that, as such, restrictions on the
display of off-premises commercial messages are necessary and desirable. (Ord.
2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-11-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   Application of Chapter.
      1.   Generally. Hereinafter, all construction, relocation, enlargement,
alteration, and modification of signs within the village shall conform to the
requirements of this chapter, all state and Federal regulations concerning
signs and advertising, and all applicable building codes. Generally, signs are
approved by issuance of a sign permit. However, there are some signs that do
not require a permit. These signs are listed in subparagraph
9-11-2  A.3. below.
      2.   Signs requiring a permit. A sign permit shall be required for all
permitted signs exceeding six (6) square feet in area, unless otherwise
exempted by subparagraph
9-11-2  A.3. below. In addition, a sign permit shall be required at any time
the sign area is increased, if the increase is allowable within the zoning
district in which the sign is located. The subparagraph shall not be
interpreted so as to grant permission for prohibited signs with sign areas less
than six (6) square feet.
      3.   Signs that do not require a sign permit. The following signs do not
require a sign permit but may require another related permit (if subject to
building or electrical codes). The exclusion of a sign permit does not provide
any relief or such signs from other sign code requirements, as applicable.
Temporary signs that do not require permits shall still comply with the
standards of section
9-11-7 , Temporary Signs, and section
9-11-4 , General Design and Maintenance Standards, or the applicable standards
of this chapter.
         a.   Official and legal notice. Official signs and legal notice signs
that are issued by any court, public body, person, or officer in performance of
a public duty, or in giving any legal notice;
         b.   Village signs. Signs that are erected, constructed, placed,
maintained, or otherwise posted, owned, or leased by the village.
         c.   Signs with de minimis area. Signs that are affixed to a building
or structure (even if wall signs are not permitted in the district or for the
use), which do not exceed one (1) square foot in area, provided that only one
such sign is present on each elevation that is visible from public rights-of-
way or neighboring property; and signs that are less than three-fourths of a
square foot in area that are affixed to machines, equipment, fences, gates,
walls, gasoline pumps, public telephones, or utility cabinets;
         d.   Flags. Flags that are not larger than thirty (30) square feet in
area that are affixed to permanent flagpoles or flagpoles that are mounted to
buildings (either temporary or permanent);
         e.   Carried signs. Signs that are being carried by people (however,
such signs are not exempt if they are set down or propped on objects);
         f.   Bumper stickers. Bumper stickers on vehicles;
         g.   Interior signs. Signs that are not visible from residential lots,
abutting property or public rights-of-way; and
         h.   Traffic control signs. Traffic control signs and other signs
related to public safety that the village or another jurisdiction installs or
requires a developer to install.
   B.   Exemption for addressing. The Village Board finds that the posting of
the addresses of buildings in locations that are visible from the street is
necessary for the effective delivery of public safety services. The efficient
and timely delivery of emergency services is a compelling government interest.
Accordingly, the village requires that street addresses shall be posted as
follows:
      1.   Nonresidential districts. In nonresidential districts, street
addresses shall be posted at:
         a.   All primary building entrances; and
         b.   On detached signage if the address on the building is not visible
from the street.
      2.   Residential districts. In residential districts, street addresses
shall be posted:
         a.   On the facade of the building that faces the street from which
the address is taken; and
         b.   On the mailbox or mailbox support, if the mailbox is detached
from the building.
      3.   Exclusion from sign area calculation. Because address signs are
required, numbers and letters used for addressing are not included in the
calculation of sign area if they are not more than fourteen inches (14") in
height.
   C.   Signs permitted before effective date. If a permit for a sign has been
issued in accordance with all village ordinances in effect prior to the
effective date of this chapter, and provided that construction is begun within
six (6) months of the effective date of this chapter and diligently pursued to
completion, said sign may be completed in accordance with the approved plans on
the basis of which the permit has been issued, subject thereafter, if
applicable, to the provisions of this zoning ordinance regarding nonconforming
signs.
   D.   Relationship to other regulations. These regulations recognize other
regulations pertaining to signage. Where any provision of this chapter covers
the same subject matter as other regulations, the more restrictive regulation
shall apply. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-11-3: MEASUREMENTS AND CALCULATIONS:
   A.   Measurements.
      1.   Generally. The regulations of this chapter shall be applied using
the measurements set out in this subsection
9-11-3  A.
      2.   Sign clearance. Sign clearance is the distance between the bottom of
a sign face or structural element that is not affixed to the ground and the
nearest point on the surface under it. For a pole sign, sign clearance is the
distance between bottom of the sign face and the ground. See Figure 9-11-
3 A.2.a., Measurement of Sign Clearance.
   Figure 9-11-3 A.2.a. Measurement of Sign Clearance
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3012.png]
 
      3.   Sign height. For detached signs (temporary and permanent), sign
height is:
         a.   Where the natural grade of the ground where the sign is to be
located is lower than the street centerline, the vertical distance to the top
of the sign face or sign structure, whichever is higher, measured from the
elevation of the centerline of the adjacent street.
   Figure 9-11-3 A.3.a. Measurement of Sign Height, Sign Base Lower than Street
Centerline
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3014.png]
 
         b.   Where the natural grade of the ground where the sign is to be
located is higher than the street centerline, the vertical distance to the top
of the sign face or sign structure, whichever is higher, measured from the
elevation of the average grade around the base of the sign.
      4.   Items of information. An item of information is a word, logo,
abbreviation, symbol, geometric shape, image, or number with ten (10) or fewer
digits (punctuation of numbers does not increase the number of items of
information). See Figure 9-11-3 A.4.a., Items of Information.
   Figure 9-11-3 A.4.a. Items of Information
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3016.png]
 
   The sign below has seven (7) items of information: four (4) words plus one
ten (10)-digit number (with punctuation) plus two (2) symbols.
   B.   Calculations.
      1.   Generally. The calculations required by the regulations of this
chapter shall be according to the methodologies of this subsection
9-11-3  B.
      2.   Sign area.
         a.   Generally. Sign area is calculated as the area within a
continuous perimeter with up to eight (8) straight sides that encloses the
limits of text and graphics of a sign, together with any frame or other
material or color forming an integral part of the display or used to
differentiate the signs message from the background against which it is placed.
The area excludes the structure upon which the sign is placed (unless the
structure is an integral part of the display or used to differentiate it), but
includes any open space contained within the outer limits of the display face
of a sign, or between any component, panel, strip, or figure of any kind
composing the display face, whether this open space is enclosed by a frame or
border or not.
      The sign area of the illustrative monument sign below is calculated as
the area within the smallest eight (8)-sided polygon that encloses all of the
text and graphics and framing of the message and graphics of the sign.
   See Figure 9-11-3 B.2.a., Sign Area, Generally.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3018.png]
 
      The sign area of the illustrative collection of wall signs below is
measured as the area within the smallest eight (8)-sided polygon that encloses
all of the text and graphics and framing that differentiates them from the
wall.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3022.png]
 
         b.   Double-faced signs: For projecting suspended, or other double-
faced signs.
            (1)   Only one display face is measured if the sign faces are
parallel or form an interior angle of less than forty-five (45) degrees,
provided that the signs are mounted on the same structure. If the faces are of
unequal area, then the sign area is equal to the area of the larger face.
            (2)   Both display faces are measured if:
               (a)   The interior angle is greater than forty-five (45)
degrees; or
               (b)   The sign faces are mounted on different structures.
   Figure 9-11-3 B.2.b. Double-Faced Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3020.png]
 
         c.   Signable area. Signable area is calculated as follows:
            (1)   Wall signs. A two (2)-dimensional area on the facade of the
building that describes the largest square, rectangle, or parallelogram which
is free of architectural details.
            (2)   Window signs. The area of glass within a window frame.
            (3)   The sign must be placed within the signable area.
            (4)   A multi-tenant building may have multiple signable areas as
long as the maximum number of signs per tenant is not exceeded.
         d.   Signable area ratio. Signable area ratio.
         e.   is the sign area divided by the signable area. It is expressed as
a percentage.
         f.   Relationship between maximum sign area and maximum signable area
ratio. Where both a maximum sign area and maximum signable area ratio are set
out, the standard that results in a polygon that encloses all of the text and
graphics and framing that differentiates them from the wall. (Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-
2024)
9-11-4: GENERAL DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Prohibited signs and design elements.
      1.   Generally. The subsection identifies signs and sign elements that
are not allowed anywhere in the village.
      2.   Prohibited signs.
         a.   The following signs are prohibited in all areas of the village:
            (1)   Signs with more than two sign faces;
            (2)   Signs that are a traffic hazard because they simulate or
imitate (in size, color, lettering, or design) any traffic sign or signal;
            (3)   Animated or moving signs that are visible from public rights-
of-way, including any moving, swinging, rotating, flashing, blinking,
scintillating, fluctuating, or otherwise animated light, except as allowed in
section
9-11-7 , Message Centers;
            (4)   Vehicle signs;
            (5)   Portable signs, except as specifically permitted in section
9-11-6 , Temporary signs;
            (6)   Billboards; and
            (7)   Roof signs.
         b.   Other signs may be prohibited in certain districts. See section
9-11-5 , Permanent Signs, and section
9-11-6 , Temporary Signs, for requirements.
      3.   Prohibited design elements.
         a.   The following elements shall not be used as an element of signs
or sign structures, whether temporary or permanent:
            (1)   Sound, smoke, or odor emitters;
            (2)   Awnings that are back lit and/or made of plastic;
            (3)   Stacked products (e.g., tires, soft drink cases, bagged soil
or mulch); and
            (4)   Unfinished wood support structures, except that stake signs
may use unfinished stakes.
         b.   The following elements shall not be used as an element of signs
or sign structures, whether temporary or permanent, which are visible from
public rights of way:
            (1)   Flags, banners, or comparable elements that are designed to
move in the wind that are not affixed to permanent flagpoles or flagpoles that
are mounted to buildings;
            (2)   Spinning or moving parts;
            (3)   Exposed reflective type bulb or strobe lights;
            (4)   Flashing lights;
            (5)   Motor vehicles, unless:
               (a)   The vehicles are functional, used as motor vehicles, and
have current registration and tags;
               (b)   The display of signage is incidental to the motor vehicle
use; and
               (c)   The motor vehicle is properly parked in a marked parking
space or is parked behind the principal building.
            (6)   Semi-trailers, shipping containers, or portable storage
units, unless:
               (a)   The trailers, containers, or portable storage units are
functional, used for their primary storage purpose, and, if subject to
registration, have current registration and tags;
               (b)   The display of signage is incidental to the use for
temporary storage, pick-up, or delivery; and
               (c)   The semi-trailer is parked in a designated loading area or
on a construction site at which it is being used for deliveries or storage.
      4.   Prohibited content.
         a.   The following content is prohibited without reference to the
viewpoint of the individual speaker:
            (1)   Text or graphics of an indecent or immoral nature and harmful
to minors;
            (2)   Text or graphics that advertise unlawful activity;
            (3)   Text or graphics that are obscene, fighting words,
defamation, incitement to imminent lawless action, or true threats; or
            (4)   Text or graphics that present a clear and present danger due
to their potential confusion with traffic control signs or signs that provide
public safety information (for example, signs that use the words “Stop,”
“Yield,” “Caution,” or “Danger,” or comparable words, phrases, symbols, or
characters in such a manner as to imply a safety hazard that does not exist.
         b.   The narrow classifications of content that are prohibited by this
subsection are either not protected by the United States or Illinois
Constitutions, or are offered limited protection that is outweighed by the
substantial government interests in protecting the public safety and welfare.
It is the intent of the Village Board that each paragraph of this subsection
(e.g., subsections
9-11-4  A.4.a.1.,
9-11-4  A.4.a.2.,
9-11-4  A.4.a.3., or
9-11-4  A.4.a.4.) be individually severable in the event that a court of
competent jurisdiction were to hold one (1) or more of them to be inconsistent
with the United States or Illinois Constitutions.
   B.   Prohibited sign locations.
      1.   Generally. Attached signs shall be installed on signable areas of
buildings, as defined by subsection
9-11-3  A, Measurements. Detached signs shall be set back as required by
subsection
9-11-5  B, Detached Signs. Signs that are in violation of this subsection
9-11-4  B are subject to immediate removal.
      2.   Prohibited obstructions. In no event shall a sign, whether temporary
or permanent, obstruct:
         a.   Building ingress or egress, including doors, windows, fire
escapes, required exitways, and any window or door opening used as an element
of a means of egress or to prevent free passage from one part of a roof to
another part thereof or access thereto;
         b.   Any opening required for ventilation, except that such signs may
be erected in front of and may cover transom windows when not in violation of
the provisions of the village building code;
         c.   Features of the building or site that are necessary for public
safety, including standpipes and fire hydrants;
         d.   Sight distance triangle required by section
9-3-5  of this title.
      3.   Prohibited mounts. No sign, whether temporary or permanent, shall be
posted, installed, or mounted on any of the following locations:
         a.   On trees; or
         b.   On utility poles, light poles, or on utility cabinets, except
signs posted by the village or the utility that are necessary for public safety
or identification of the facility by the utility provider.
      4.   Prohibited locations. In addition to the setback requirements of
this chapter, and the other restrictions of this section, no sign shall be
located in any of the following locations:
         a.   In or over public rights-of-way (which, in addition to streets,
may include other elements, such as sidewalks, parkways, retaining walls,
utility poles, traffic control devices, medians, and center islands that are
within the public right-of-way), except:
            (1)   Traffic control signs installed by a governmental entity or
which are required to be installed by a governmental entity (e.g., permanent
traffic control devices such as stop, yield, and speed limit signs, as well as
temporary signs related to street construction or repair);
            (2)   Signs posted by governmental entities that support event or
emergency management, such as wayfinding to event or disaster relief locations;
            (3)   Banners posted by the village on utility or light poles
according to the standards of subparagraph
9-11-4  B.3. above;
            (4)   Signs constructed by the village or another governmental or
quasi-governmental entity pursuant to terms and conditions set forth in an
approved intergovernmental agreement with the village; and
            (5)   Signs specifically identified in a sign design program
approved pursuant to section
9-11-4 , General Design and Maintenance Standards.
         b.   In locations that have less horizontal or vertical clearance from
authorized communication or energized electrical power lines that are
prescribed by the laws of the State of Illinois and the regulations duly
promulgated by agencies thereof.
         c.   Within easements for overhead utilities (placement in other
utility easement areas is allowed only if approved by the utility service
provider and if the other applicable requirements of the zoning ordinance are
met).
   C.   Items of information. No sign face shall contain more than twenty (20)
items of information. Items of information are measured as provided in
subsection
9-11-3  A., Measurements.
   D.   Illumination of signs.
      1.   Generally. Signs shall be internally illuminated, or, if external
illumination is used, the source of illumination shall be shielded.
      2.   Certification. All electrically illuminated signs shall be certified
as to electric wiring and devices by the village’s electrical inspector, and
all wiring and accessory electrical equipment shall conform to the requirements
of the village’s electrical code.
      3.   Photometric plans. The zoning officer may require applicants to
submit photometric plans demonstrating compliance with this subsection as a
condition to the issuance of a sign permit.
      4.   Additional permits. Electrical permits for the erection or
maintenance of illuminated signs must be obtained when required by the
village’s electrical code.
      5.   Sign illumination. Signs shall not exceed the following Illumination
levels:
 
Table 9-11-4-D-3-a - Maximum Sign Illumination Standards
             Distance from Sign to R-1, R-2,
             R-3, A-1, or A-2 Districts                       Not visible from
Type of                                                       R-1, R-2, R-3, A-
Illumination Less than 200    200 ft. to 500  More than 500   1, or A-
             ft.              ft.             ft.             2 Districts

Direct,                       150 foot-       250 foot-
internal, or 90 foot-lamberts lamberts        lamberts        250-foot lamberts
backlit
Indirect or  10 foot-candles  25 foot-candles 50 foot-candles 50 foot-candles
reflected
   
   E.   Sign maintenance.
      1.   Generally. Signs and sign structures of all types (attached,
detached, and temporary) shall be maintained as provided in this subsection.
Signs not maintained according to applicable standards are declared to be a
nuisance.
      2.   Message. Signs shall display messages. Signs that do not display a
message for a period of more than thirty (30) days are abandoned.
      3.   Paint and finishes. Paint and other finishes shall be maintained in
good condition. Peeling finishes shall be repaired. Signs with running colors
shall be repainted, repaired, or removed if the running colors were not a part
of the original design.
      4.   Mineral deposits and stains. Mineral deposits and stains shall be
promptly removed.
      5.   Corrosion and rust. Permanent signs and sign structures shall be
finished and maintained to prevent corrosion and rust. A patina on copper
elements is not considered rust.
      6.   Level position. Signs that are designed to be level, whether
temporary or permanent, shall be installed and maintained in a level position.
See Figure 9-11-4 E.6., Level Position.
Figure 9-11-4 E.6. Level Position
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3025.png]
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024)
9-11-5: PERMANENT SIGNS:
   A.   Attached signs.
      1.   Generally. There are many forms of attached signs. This section sets
out which forms of attached signs are allowed in each zoning district and the
standards that apply to them. Attached signs that are not listed in a table are
not allowed as-of-right in any of the districts set out in the Table.
      2.   Residential districts.
         a.   The standards of
Table 9-11-5 A.1 ., Permissible Attached Sign Types in Residential Districts,
apply to multifamily and nonresidential uses in the districts set out in the
table.
         b.   Attached signs are not allowed for home occupations, except for
required address signs.
      3.   Freeway oriented commercial retail and mixed use developments.
         a.   The Village Board finds that non-residential developments that
are adjacent to interstate highways or tollways have unique needs for
communicating their messages due to the high rate of speed of Interstate
highway traffic, and the elevation of the interstate highway or tollway
compared to abutting properties. The regulations of subsection apply to
developments that meets all of the following criteria:
            (1)   Buildings of more than one hundred thousand (100,000) square
feet of floor area.
            (2)   The building directly abuts interstate highway or tollway
right-of-way.
         b.   Development that meets all of the criteria of subsection
9-11-5  A.3.a. may display a wall sign that is subject to the following
standards:
            (1)   Maximum sign surface area: eight hundred (800) square feet
each surface.
            (2)   Minimum spacing from other freeway-oriented signs: three
hundred feet (300').
   The sign permitted by this subsection is in addition to the signs that are
permitted by Table 9-11-5 A.2., Permissible Attached Sign Types in
Nonresidential Districts.
 
Table 9-11-5-A-1 Permissible Attached Sign Types in Residential Districts
District      R-1          R-2          R-3          A-1          A-2
Wall Sign     Allowed      Allowed      Allowed      Allowed      Allowed
Number of     1 per facade 1 per facade 1 per facade 1 per facade 1 per facade
signs allowed
Maximum sign  50 s.f.      50 s.f.      50 s.f.      50 s.f.      50 s.f.
area
Maximum
signable area 40%          50%          50%          60%          60%
ratio
 
Table 9-11-5-A-2 Permissible Attached Sign Types in Nonresidential
Districts
District B-1 B-2 B-3 RBC ORI M-1
Table 9-11-5-A-2 Permissible Attached Sign Types in Nonresidential Districts
District     B-1       B-2         B-3        RBC         ORI        M-1
Wall Sign    Allowed   Allowed     Allowed    Allowed     Allowed    Allowed
Number of    1 per     1 per       1 per      1 per       1 per      1 per
signs        facade    facade      facade     facade      facade     facade
allowed
             Aggregate             Aggregate
             (total)   Aggregate   (total)
             sign area (total)     sign area
             of 2.5    sign area   of 2.5     Aggregate   Aggregate
             s.f. per  of 2.5 s.f. s.f. per   (total)     (total)
             linear    per linear  linear ft. sign area   sign area
Maximum sign ft. of    ft. of      of facade  of 2.5 s.f. of 2.5 ft. 300 s.f.
area         facade    facade      with, or   per linear  per linear
             with, or  with, or    250 sq.    ft., up to  ft., up to
             250 sq.   250 sq. ft. ft.        150 sq. ft. 150 s.f.
             ft.       (whichever  (whichever
             (whicheve is greater) is
             r is                  greater)
             greater)
Maximum
signable     50%       50%         50%        50%         50%        50%
area ratio
             Must be 1 foot from edge of wall
Other        For multi-tenant properties, wall signs must be centered above
limitations  each tenant’s frontage, and reasonably in line with the other
             signs on the building
Window Sign  Allowed   Allowed     Allowed    Allowed     Allowed    Allowed
Minimum
window       80%       80%         80%        50%         50%        50%
transparency
Other           See neon signs, below.
limitations
Awning Sign  Allowed   Allowed     Allowed    Allowed     Allowed    Allowed
Number of
signs           1 per awning
allowed
   DistricB-1       B-2         B-3        RBC         ORI        M-1
Maximum
signable        5 s.f.
area
Maximum      90% of valence for copy and graphics on valence; 50% of other
signable     areas for copy and graphics on other areas
area ratio
Maximum      Such signs shall not exceed a height of 20 feet above average
height       surrounding grade.
Marquee Sign Not       Allowed     Not        Allowed     Not        Not
             allowed               allowed                allowed    allowed
Number of              1 per                  1 per
signs        -         building    -          building    -          -
allowed
Maximum                20 s.f. per            20 s.f. per
signable     -         face, up to -          face, up to -          -
area                   3 faces                3 faces
                       Not allowed            Not allowed
                       on facades             on facades
                       that face              that face
                       residential            residential
                       uses in a              uses in a
                       different              different
                       zoning                 zoning
Other        -         district;   -          district;   -          -
limitations            not allowed            not allowed
                       on                     on
                       buildings              buildings
                       that are               that are
                       less than              less than
                       12,000 s.f.            12,000 s.f.
                       of floor               of floor
                       area                   area
                       May not                May not
                       exceed 20              exceed 20
Height       -         feet above  -          feet above             -
                       average                average
                       surroundin             surroundin
                       g grade                g grade
Blade Sign   Allowed   Allowed     Not Allowed
or Shingle
Number of    1 per primary
signs        building entrance     -
allowed
Maximum sign 8 s.f.                -
area
Minimum      8 ft.                 -
clearance
Maximum      12 ft.                -
height
             Allowed under awnings
             or arcades on front
Other        facades only, height  -
limitations  may not exceed 20
             feet above average
             surrounding grade
Neon Sign    Allowed   Allowed     Not        Not Allowed Not        Not
                                   Allowed                Allowed    Allowed
Number of
signs        1 per window          -
allowed
Maximum sign 6 s.f.                -
area
             Sign area of neon
             sign hung in window
             counts as opaque in
Other        measure of window     -
limitations  transparency; neon
             signs must be turned
             off when the use
             closes each day
Drive-       Allowed
through Sign
Maximum
number of    3 drive-through signs per drive through or drive-in establishment
signs
Sign
location and Set back 15 ft. from any residential zoned lot line
spacing
Maximum sign
area (per    25 s.f. / 75 s.f.
sign/total)
Maximum sign 7 ft.
height
             Internally illuminated drive-through signs are allowed only in
Other        accordance with Section
limitations  9-11-4 D. Menu boards may include an electronic screen to display
             information to drive-through traffic.
 
   B.   Detached signs.
      1.   Generally. There are many forms of detached signs. This subsection
sets out which forms of detached signs are allowed in each zoning district, and
the size and height standards that apply to them.
      2.   Required setbacks. Unless otherwise indicated in
Table 9-11-5-B-1 , Permissible
   Detached Sign Types in Residential Districts; or Table 9-11-5-B-2,
Permissible Detached Sign Types in Nonresidential Districts, all detached signs
shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from all property lines. The zoning
officer may waive this standard if:
         a.   The waiver would lower the elevation of the base of the sign by
more than three feet (3') and:
            (1)   The sign will be set back at least one foot from any
sidewalk;
            (2)   The sign will not encroach on any utility easement;
            (3)   The sign will not obstruct a sight distance triangle; and
            (4)   There is at least five feet (5') of landscaped parkway
between the edge of pavement and the property line; or
         b.   The sign is a wayfinding sign used to identify a residential
subdivision or development and:
            (1)   The sign will be set back at least one foot (1') from any
property line;
            (2)   The sign will not encroach on any utility easement;
            (3)   The sign will not obstruct a sight distance triangle; and
            (4)   The sign will not be located within the sight distance
triangle.
      3.   Required landscaping. All monument and pole signs shall provide
landscaping around its base. Landscaping must extend a minimum of two feet (2')
from the sign base on all sides with small shrubs a minimum of eighteen inches
(18") in height at planting in a single row around the perimeter of the sign
base. The remainder of the required landscape area must be planted with
perennials, or other live groundcover as appropriate.
      4.   Design Standards. Detached monument signs shall meet the following
design standards:
         a.   The width of the sign structure base shall be no less than eighty
percent (80%) of the width of the top of the sign;
         b.   Signs with internally-illuminated cabinets shall have a sign
background that is opaque so that the portion of the sign that contains
letters, figures and/or other means of communication or part thereof is only
illuminated portion.
         c.   They shall be designed to mimic or complement the principal
building on the lot that the sign is placed; and
         d.   If no principal building exists, all monument signs shall be
comprised solely of either fired clay brick, natural stone, natural wood,
split-face or ground-face block, manufactured stone or tile, cementitious
stucco; architectural metal, and/or other similar materials as approved by the
zoning officer.
      5.   Freeway oriented commercial retail and mixed use developments.
         a.   The Village Board finds that non-residential developments that
are adjacent to interstate highways or tollways have unique needs for
communicating their messages due to the high rate of speed of Interstate
highway traffic, and the elevation of the interstate highway or tollway
compared to abutting properties. The regulations of subsection apply to
developments that meets all of the following criteria:
            (1)   Buildings of more than one hundred thousand (100,000) square
feet of floor area;
            (2)   The building directly abuts interstate highway or tollway
right-of-way.
         b.   Development that meets all of the criteria of subsection
9-11-5  B.5.a may display a monument sign or pole sign that is subject to the
following standards:
            (1)   Maximum sign height: thirty-two feet (32').
            (2)   Point of measurement: The point of measurement for sign
height is the centerline of the adjacent interstate or tollway.
            (3)   Maximum sign area: one hundred and fifty (150) square feet.
            (4)   Setbacks and location: The sign shall be located in the yard
that abuts the interstate or tollway, and shall be set back at least ten feet
(10') from all property lines.
            (5)   Minimum spacing from other freeway-oriented signs: three
hundred feet (300').
            (6)   The sign must be compatible with surrounding architecture in
general appearance and materials.
            (7)   The sign shall also include landscaping in the form of
shrubs, decorative grasses, perennials, or other ornamental materials around
the base of the structure that are maintained by a subsurface irrigation
system.
            (8)   The sign permitted by this subsection is in addition to the
signs that are permitted by Table 9-11-5 B.2., Permissible Detached Sign Types,
Nonresidential and Mixed-Use Districts.
Table 9-11-5 B.1. Permissible Detached Sign Types in Residential Districts
District R-1 R-2 R-3 A-1 A-2
Table 9-11-5 B.1. Permissible Detached Sign Types in Residential Districts
District                       R-1 R-2 R-3 A-1 A-2
Monument sign, residential use Allowed
                               2 signs per subdivision or access to
                               developments containing 15 dwelling units or
Maximum number of signs        more, located on commonly owned open space. 1
                               sign per subdivision or access to developments
                               containing between 3 and 14 dwelling units,
                               located on commonly owned space.
Maximum sign area              32 s.f. per sign, 64 s.f. per development
Maximum height                 5 ft.
Monument sign, nonresidential  Allowed
use
Maximum number of signs        1 sign per nonresidential parcel
Maximum sign area              60 s.f.
Maximum sign height            6 ft.
                               The limitations for nonresidential monument
                               signs shall apply to any nonresidential
Other limitations              electronic message center, which may be
                               permitted if the message center serves
                               nonresidential uses
Pole sign, residential use     Not Allowed
Pole sign, nonresidential use  Not Allowed
Kiosk sign                     Not Allowed
Bus stop and transit shelter   Allowed
bench signs
Number of signs allowed        Signs may be incorporated into transit shelter
                               designs
                               Signs shall be integrated into the transit
                               shelter or its benches. Transit shelters and
Maximum sign area              benches shall be sized according to their
                               principal function, and not for the display of
                               signage
 
Table 9-11-5-B-2 Permissible Detached Sign Types in Nonresidential
Districts
District B-1 B-2 B-3 RBC ORI M-1
Table 9-11-5-B-2 Permissible Detached Sign Types in Nonresidential Districts
District       B-1     B-2        B-3        RBC          ORI        M-1
Monument sign,
residential    Not Allowed
use
Monument sign,
nonresidential Allowed Allowed    Allowed    Allowed      Allowed    Allowed
use
Maximum number 1 monument sign, provided there are no pole signs located on the
of signs       nonresidential lot. Where there is a pole sign located on the
               nonresidential lot, a monument sign shall not also be permitted
                                             Sign with 1
                                             sign
                                             surface: 2
                                             s.f. per 2.5
                                             linear ft.
                                             of facade up
                                             to a maximum
Maximum sign   160 s.f.                      of 40 s.f.   120 s.f.   160 s.f.
area                                         Sign with 2
                                             sign
                                             surfaces: 2
                                             s.f. per 2.5
                                             linear ft of
                                             facade up to
                                             a maximum of
                                             80 s.f.
Maximum sign   10 ft.                        10 ft.       10 ft.     12 ft.
height
                                             Freestanding
                                             retail and
               The sign area portion of a    restaurant
               nonresidential monument sign  buildings
               shall not be less than 3 ft.  within a     Signs
               above the average surrounding shopping     shall be
Other          grade Freestanding retail and center       set back a
limitations    restaurant buildings within a complex      minimum of
               shopping center complex shall shall not    five ft.
               not have a ground sign        have a       from road
               separate from that of the     ground sign  ROW lines
               shopping center               separate
                                             from that of
                                             the shopping
                                             center
Pole sign,
residential    Not allowed
use
Pole sign,
nonresidential Allowed
use
Maximum number 1 pole sign, provided there are no monument signs located on the
of signs       nonresidential lot. Where there is a monument sign located on
               the nonresidential lot, a pole sign shall not also be permitted
Maximum sign   120 s.f.
area
Maximum sign   16 ft.
height
Minimum sign   8 ft.
clearance
Other          No sign face of a pole sign in a nonresidential district shall
limitations    be lower than 8 ft. above the average surrounding grade
Sidewalk sign  Allowed Allowed    Allowed    Allowed      Allowed    Allowe d
Maximum number 1 per street
of signs       frontage and 1 per 2 per ingress or egress to district
               ingress or egress
               1 sign per
Maximum sign   frontage up to 48  48 s.f.
area           s.f.; all others
               up to 10 s.f.
               1 sign per
Maximum sign   frontage up to 10  10 ft.
height         ft.; all others up
               to 5 ft.
Single-tenant                                                        Allowe d
electronic     Allowed Allowed    Allowed    Not Allowed  Not        (public
message center                                            Allowed    service
                                                                     use only)
Maximum number
of message     1       1          -                                  1
centers
Multi-tenant                                              Not        Not Allowe
electronic     Allowed Allowed    Allowed    Not Allowed  Allowed    d
message center
Maximum number
of message     1       1          1          -
centers
Design         Per Section                   -
criteria       9-11-7
Kiosk sign     Allowed Allowed    Allowed    Not allowed  Not        Not allowe
                                                          allowed    d
               Set back 10 ft. from any
               vehicular use area; within 2
Sign location  ft. of a sidewalk; and spaced -
and spacing    150 ft. apart unless there is
               no line of sight between
               signs
Maximum sign   12 s.f.                       -
area
Maximum sign   10 ft.                        -
height
Bus stop and
transit        Allowed
shelter bench
sign
Maximum number Signs may be incorporated into transit shelter designs.
of signs
Maximum sign   Signs shall be integrated into the transit shelter or its
area           benches. Transit shelters and benches shall be sized according
               to their principal function, and not for the display of signage.
Directional
sign,          Allowed Allowed    Allowed    Allowed      Allowed    Allowe d
nonresidential
use
Maximum number 1 per ingress or egress
of signs
Sign location  No spacing or setback requirement; must leave at least 4 ft. of
and spacing    sidewalk width for pedestrian use; must be located outside of
               principal pedestrian travel path
Maximum sign   10 s.f.
area
Maximum sign   5 ft.
height
Drive-through  Allowed
Sign
Maximum number 3 drive-through signs per drive-through or drive-in
of signs       establishment
Sign location  Set back 15 ft. from any residential zoned lot line
and spacing
Maximum sign
area (per      25 s.f./75 s.f.
sign/total)
Maximum sign   7 ft.
height
               Internally illuminated drive-through signs are allowed only in
Other          accordance with Section
limitations    9-11-4 D. Menu boards may include an electronic screen to
               display information to drive-through traffic.
 
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024; amd. Ord. 2025-7, 3-6-2025)
9-11-6: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   A.   General standards for freestanding temporary signs.
      1.   Generally. There are many forms of temporary signs. This section
sets out which forms of temporary signs are allowed in each zoning district,
and the size and height standards that apply to them. Sign types that are not
listed in Table 9-11-6 A.1., Permissible Freestanding Temporary Sign Types,
Residential Zoning Districts; or Table 9-11-6 A.2., Permissible Freestanding
Temporary Sign Types, Nonresidential
   Zoning Districts; are not permitted as freestanding signs.
      2.   Setbacks. All temporary signs shall be set back at least five feet
from all property lines, except as provided in
9-11-7  B., Prevention of Visual Clutter in Principal Corridors. Temporary
signs that are not visible from public rights-of-way or abutting property are
not restricted by this section.
Table 9-11-6(A)(1) Permissible Freestanding Temporary Sign Types in
Residential Districts
District R-1 R-2 R-3 A-1 A-2
Table 9-11-6(A)(1) Permissible Freestanding Temporary Sign Types in
Residential Districts
District                     R-1 R-2 R-3 A-1 A-2
Yard sign                    Allowed
Number of signs allowed      No maximum; provided minimum size and height
                             restrictions met
Maximum sign area (per sign/ 6 s.f./24 s.f.
total)
Maximum sign height          4 ft.
Swing sign                   Allowed
Number of signs allowed      1
Maximum sign area            6 s.f.
Maximum sign height          4 ft.
Site Sign                    Allowed
Number of signs allowed      1 per frontage
Maximum sign area            12 s.f.
Maximum sign height          5 ft.
Other requirements           Not allowed on parcels with existing residential
                             uses
Table 9-11-6(A)(2) Permissible Freestanding Temporary Sign Types in
Nonresidential Districts
District B-1 B-2 B-3 RBC ORI M-1
Table 9-11-6(A)(2) Permissible Freestanding Temporary Sign Types in
Nonresidential Districts
District      B-1 B-2 B-3             RBC          ORI          M-1
Yard sign     Not Allowed
Number of     -
signs allowed
Maximum sign
area (per     -
sign/ total)
Maximum sign  -
height
Sidewalk sign Allowed                 Not allowed
Number of     1 per ground floor      -
signs allowed tenant bay
Maximum sign  8 s.f.                  -
area
              Must leave at least 4
              feet of sidewalk width
              for pedestrian use;
Other         must be located outside
Requirements  of principal pedestrian -
              travel path; not
              allowed on sidewalks in
              arterial or collector
              rights-of-way
Swing sign    Allowed
Number of     1 per frontage
signs allowed
Maximum sign  6 s.f.
area
Maximum sign  4 ft.
height
Site sign     Allowed
Number of     1 per frontage          1 per frontage
signs allowed
Maximum sign  32 s.f.                 200 s.f. per 150 s.f. per 150 s.f. per
area                                  sign         sign         sign
Maximum sign  8 ft.                   12 ft.       12 ft.       12 ft.
height
Other         Must be set back at least five feet from all property lines;
requirements  site signs are exempt from the setback requirements of
              9-11-7 B, Prevention of visual clutter in principal corridors.
 
   B.   Prevention of Visual Clutter in Principal Corridors.
      1.   Generally. The Village Board finds that the proliferation of
temporary signage along the principal corridors of the Village causes visual
clutter that is detrimental to the character of the community and tend to be
distracting to motorists. The Village Board also finds that the application of
this subsection does not restrict the ample alternative ways that residents and
business owners may communicate their messages.
      2.   Corridor setback requirement.
      a.   No temporary sign shall be placed within the right-of-way (as
provided in Section
9-11-4  B., Prohibited Sign Locations), or within any required site distance
triangles.
   C.   Standards for Attached Temporary Signs.
      1.   Generally. Attached temporary signs are permitted subject to the
standards of this subsection, for a duration as set out in subsection
9-11-7  D, Duration of Temporary Signs.
      2.   Banners. Banners are permitted in the B-1, B-2, B-3, RBC, ORI, and
M-1 districts, provided that:
         a.   There is only one banner per tenant per principal building;
         b.   The banner is attached to the principal building and complies
with the standards of subsection
9-11-4  B, Prohibited Sign Locations.
         c.   The sign area on the banner is not larger than the sign area
allowed for a wall sign on the building upon which the banner is attached.
      3.   Sock signs and temporary wall signs. Sock signs and temporary wall
signs are permitted in the B-1, B-2, B-3, RBC, ORI, and M-1 districts, and may
be installed upon issuance of a building permit for a permanent sign, and may
remain in place for not more than thirty (30) days. Such signs shall have a
sign area that is not more than fifteen percent (15%) larger than that which is
permitted for the permanent sign for which the permit application was filed.
      4.   Window signs. Temporary window signs are allowed in all locations
where permanent window signs are allowed, provided that the transparency
standards of subsection
9-11-5  A, Attached Signs, are met.
   D.   Duration of Temporary Signs.
      1.   Generally. The purpose of temporary signs is to display messages for
a temporary duration. Temporary signs shall not be used as a subterfuge to
circumvent the regulations that apply to permanent signs or to add permanent
signage to a parcel proposed for development in addition to that which is
permitted for permanent signs by subsection
9-11-5  A., Attached signs, and subsection 9-11-5 B., Detached signs.
      2.   Duration of display.
         a.   In general, temporary signs shall be removed as of the earlier of
the date that:
            (1)   A commercial message is obsolete and has become misleading or
off-premises (e.g., a “for lease” or “for sale” sign in front of a building
that is fully occupied);
            (2)   The sign falls into disrepair (see subsection
9-11-4  E., Sign Maintenance); or
            (3)   The number of days set out in Table 9-11-6 D.1., Duration of
Detached Temporary Signs, or Table 9-11-6 D.2., Duration of Attached Temporary
Signs, expires.
Table 9-11-6-D-1 Duration of Detached Temporary Signs
District R-1 R-2 R-3 A-1 A-2 B-1 B-2 B-3 RBC ORI M-1
Table 9-11-6-D-1 Duration of Detached Temporary Signs
District     R-1        R-2         R-3 A-1 A-2 B-1 B-2 B-3 RBC ORI M-1
Yard sign
Paper or     Signs must be removed within 24
cardboard    hours of placement; signs may be   -
sign face    placed not more than 90 days per
             year.
Laminated
paper;
plastic-
lined        Signs may be placed for not more   -
polyethylene than 90 days per year.
bags and
comparable
materials
Wood,
corrugated
plastic,     Signs may be placed for not more   -
metal, or    than 120 days per year.
vinyl sign
face
Swing sign
Wood,
corrugated
plastic, or
metal sign
face and     Signs may be placed for not more than 9 months per year
finished
wood or
metal
structure
Sidewalk sign
                        Must be
                        removed
All sidewalk -          from        -
signs                   sidewalk at
                        close of
                        business
Site sign
Vinyl sign   Signs may be placed for not more than 30 days per year.
face
Corrugated
plastic sign Signs may be placed for not more than 6 months per year
face
Plywood sign Signs may be placed for not more than 10 months per year.
face
             Signs may
             be placed
Metal;       for not
plywood with more than
bonded       10 months  Signs may be placed for not more than 10 months per
aluminum     per year   year or 16 months per 2-year period.   
sign face    or 14
             months per
             2-year
             period.
Banners
Cloth,                                          Signs must be removed within 14
canvas, or   -                                  days of placement; signs may be
comparable                                      placed not more than 30 days
materials                                       per year.
Vinyl or                                        Signs may be placed not more
comparable   -                                  than 30 days per year.
material
Sock Signs
Vinyl or                                        Signs may be placed after sign
comparable   -                                  permit for permanent sign is
material                                        issued, and for a period of not
                                                more than 30 days thereafter.
Temporary Wall
All                     Signs may be placed after sign permit for permanent
materials    -          sign is issued, and for a period of not more than 30
                        days thereafter.
Window Signs
Inside
window (all  -          Not limited
materials)
Outside
window (all  -          Signs must be removed 15 days after placement
materials)
 
   4.   Administrative interpretations. The Village Board finds that materials
technology is a rapidly evolving field of study, and that materials for signage
that are not listed in Table 9-11-6 D.1., Duration of Detached Temporary Signs
or Table 9-11-6 D.2., Duration of Attached Temporary Signs, material may be
introduced into the market. When an unlisted material is proposed, the zoning
officer shall determine to which class of materials the new material is
comparable, based on the new material’s appearance, durability, and color
fastness. No sign displays shall be longer in duration than the longest
permitted display in Table 9-11-6 D.1. Duration of Detached Temporary Signs or
Table 9-11-6 D.2. Duration of Attached Temporary Signs, regardless of the
material.
   5.   Exception for outdoor political campaign signs on residential property.
Other than regulations as to size, nothing in this section prohibits the
display of outdoor political campaign signs on residential property. (Ord.
2024-6, 3-7-2024; amd. Ord. 2025-7, 3-6-2025)
9-11-7: MESSAGE CENTERS:
   A.   Generally. Manual and electronic message centers may be used in
permanent detached signs and marquee signs to a limited degree, pursuant to the
applicable standards of this section.
   B.   Electronic message centers. Electronic message centers may be
incorporated into signage as follows:
      1.   Location restrictions.
         a.   A single electronic message center may be installed as part of a
permitted permanent detached sign or marquee sign on:
            (1)   Properties zoned residential, provided that they serve
nonresidential uses and meet the requirements set forth in this chapter.
            (2)   Properties zoned B-1, B-2, or B-3 provided that they are
located on a principal or minor arterial roadway as designated by the
Comprehensive Plan.
            (3)   Properties zoned M-1 provided that they serve a public
service use.
         b.   Electronic message centers must be located a minimum of one
hundred feet (100') from residential uses.
      2.   Design requirements.
         a.   Electronic message centers are only permitted on monument signs
or marquee signs which enclose the electronic message center component on all
sides with a finish of brick, stone, stucco, powder coated (or comparably
finished) metal, or the surface of the sign face.
         b.   Electronic message centers shall make up not more than fifty
percent (50%) of the sign area of a monument sign or seventy-five percent (75%)
of the sign area of a marquee sign. The balance of the sign area shall utilize
permanent, dimensional letters or symbols.
         c.   No sign structure that includes a cabinet, box, or manual
changeable copy sign may also include an electronic message center. See Figure
9-11-8 B.2., Electronic Message Center Design Requirements.
         d.   All electronic message center display components shall be in full
color with a minimum pitch resolution of sixteen millimeter (16 mm) spacing or
better (i.e., 10 mm, 12 mm, etc.)
   Figure 9-11-7 B.1 Electronic Message Center Resolution Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3035.png]
 
      3.   Operational Requirements. Electronic message centers must meet the
operational requirements in this subsection. The zoning officer may order the
owner to turn off an electronic message center that does not meet these
requirements. Electronic message centers:
         a.   Shall contain static messages only;
         b.   Shall be constant in intensity and color;
         c.   Shall not consist of flashing, animated, chasing or scintillating
lights;
         d.   Shall display messages for a period not less than ten (10)
seconds (multiple electronic message centers, if used on the same sign, shall
be synchronized to change messages at the same time);
         e.   Shall not use transitions or frame effects between messages;
         f.   Shall not emit illumination that encroaches onto or create a
visual
nuisance on properties used for residential dwellings; and
         g.   Shall conform to the illumination standards as set forth in
subparagraph 9-11-7 B.3. below.
   Figure 9-11-7 B.2. Electronic Message Center Design Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3037.png]
 
      4.   Illumination standards. The illumination standards set forth in this
subsection 9-11-7 B.4. shall apply to all electronic message center signs,
including multi-tenant electronic message centers.
         a.   Measurement criteria. The illuminance of an electronic message
center shall be measured with an illuminance meter set to measure foot-candles
accurate to at least two decimals. Illuminance shall be measured with the
electric message center off, and again with the electronic message center
displaying a white image for a full-color capable electronic message center, or
a solid message for a single-color electronic message center. Measurements
shall be taken after sunset, as determined by the National Weather Service,
with the site fully illuminated by installed site lighting. All measurements
shall be taken perpendicular to the face of the electronic message center at
the distance determined by the total square footage of the electronic message
center as set forth below (sign size determined per
Table 9-11-7 C ).
            (1)   Large sign: ninety-eight feet (98').
            (2)   Medium sign: seventy-three feet (73') for symmetrical and
asymmetrical sign types; eighty-four feet (84') for horizontal sign type.
            (3)   Small sign: forty-nine feet (49') for symmetrical and
asymmetrical sign types; fifty-seven feet (57') for horizontal sign type.
            (4)   Other sign sizes: Measurement distance = (Area of Sign (in
square feet) x 100).
         c.   Electronic message center illumination limits. The difference
between the off and solid message measurements using the EMC Measurement
Criteria shall not exceed 0.3 footcandles on either side of the sign. If there
is a difference in measurement of illumination levels on either side of the
sign, the side of the sign facing residentially-zoned properties shall take
precedence.
         d.   Dimming capabilities. All electronic message centers shall be
equipped with an ambient light monitor or other device that automatically
determines the ambient illumination and at all times is programmed to
automatically dim according to ambient light conditions, or that can be
adjusted to comply with the 0.3 foot-candle measurements.
         e.   Photometric plan. The zoning officer may require applicants to
submit photometric plans demonstrating compliance with this subsection as a
condition to the issuance of a sign permit.
   C.   Multi-tenant electronic message centers. Multi-tenant electronic
message centers are intended to provide an opportunity for unified, multi-
tenant developments to advertise on-site businesses through uniform sign
designs subject to the requirements set forth in this subsection
9-11-7  C. Developments that do not meet the criteria set forth in this
subsection
9-11-7  C. are permitted to display electronic message center signs in
accordance with subsection
9-11-7  B.
      1.   Development eligibility requirements. Multi-tenant electronic
message centers are permitted in mixed-use or nonresidential developments that
meet all of the following criteria:
         a.   Unified mixed-use or nonresidential development that meets the
minimum floor area requirements as specified in
Table 9-11-7 C , whether existing or proposed through an approved site plan,
and contains at least ten existing or proposed tenants, storefronts, or
businesses.
         b.   The development must be located in the B-1, B-2, or B-3 districts
and located on a principal or minor arterial roadway as designated by the
comprehensive plan.
         c.   Through the sign permit application, the development must
identify tenants, storefronts, and businesses eligible for signage on the
multi-tenant electronic message center sign.
      2.   Sign design, location, and requirements. A mixed-use or
nonresidential development that meets all of the criteria of subparagraph 9-11-
7 C.1., above, may display multi-tenant electronic message centers on signs
that meet all of the following criteria:
         a.   The sign shall conform to the sign prototypes and criteria set
forth in table 9-11-7-C.
         b.   A maximum of one large-sized multi-tenant electronic message
center sign may be displayed per eligible development meeting the criteria in
subparagraph 9-11-7 C.1., except that a maximum of two (2) large-sized multi-
tenant electronic message center signs may be displayed if the total square
footage of existing floor area for the development exceeds four hundred
thousand (400,000) square feet and is adjacent to a state highway, interstate,
or tollway.
         c.   A maximum of one (1) medium-sized multi-tenant electronic message
center sign may be displayed per eligible development meeting the criteria in
subparagraph 9-11-7 C.1..
         d.   All electronic message center display components shall be in full
color with a pitch resolution of no greater than sixteen millimeter (16 mm)
spacing (e.g., 12 mm, 10 mm, etc. are acceptable).
         e.   The sign must meet the minimum setback requirements set forth in
Table 9-11-7 C..
      3.   Operational Requirements. Electronic message centers must meet the
operational requirements in this subsection. The zoning officer may order the
owner to turn off an electronic message center that does not meet these
requirements. Multi-tenant electronic message centers:
Multi-tenant electronic message centers:
         a.   Shall contain static messages only;
         b.   Shall be constant in intensity and color;
         c.   Shall not consist of flashing, animated, chasing or scintillating
lights;
         d.   Shall display messages for a period not less than ten (10)
seconds (multiple electronic message centers, if used on the same sign, shall
be synchronized to change messages at the same time);
         e.   Shall meet the illumination standards set forth in subparagraph
9-11-7 -B-3;
         f.   Shall not emit illumination that encroaches onto or creates a
visual nuisance on properties used for residential dwellings.
Table 9-11-7 C Multi-tenant EMC Requirements
Sign Prototype Symmetrical Asymmetrical Horizontal
Table 9-11-7 C Multi-tenant EMC Requirements
Sign          Symmetrical                     Asymmetrical                    Horizontal
Prototype
              [https://export.amlegal.com/    [https://export.amlegal.com/    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
              media/                          media/                          6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
              6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3b6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bIMAGES/0-0-0-3043.png]
              IMAGES/0-0-0-3039.png]          IMAGES/0-0-0-3041.png]
Sign size     Large   Medium Small            Large   Medium Small            Medium Small
Maximum sign  25 ft.  18 ft. 12 ft.           25 ft.  18 ft. 12 ft.           14 ft. 10 ft.
height
Maximum EMC   8' x    6' x                    8' x    6' x                    6' x
component     12'     9'     4' x 6'          12'     9'     4' x 6'          12'    4' x 8'
size
Minimum total 200,000 75,000 15,000 s.f.      200,000 75,000 15,000 s.f.      75,000 15,000 s.f.
floor area    s.f.    s.f.                    s.f.    s.f.                    s.f.
Required
setback from          250                             250                     250
residentially 500 ft. ft.    100 ft.          500 ft. ft.    100 ft.          ft.    100 ft.
zoned
properties
Required
setback from
other         10 ft.  10 ft. 10 ft.           10 ft.  10 ft. 10 ft.           10 ft. 10 ft.
property
lines
 
   D.   Manual changeable copy message centers. Manual changeable copy signs
may be incorporated into signage as follows:
      1.   Manual changeable copy message centers are only permitted on
monument signs or marquee signs which enclose the message center component on
all sides with a finish of brick, stone, stucco, powder coated (or comparably
finished) metal, or sign face that extends not less than six inches (6") from
the message center in all directions. Gaps between the message center and the
finish are permitted to accommodate locks and hinges for a cover for the
changeable copy area, but only to the extent necessary for such locks and
hinges to operate.
      2.   Manual changeable copy centers, including their frames, shall make
up not more than fifty percent (50%) of the sign area. The balance of the sign
area shall utilize permanently affixed letters or symbols. See Figure 9-11-
7 D.1., Manual Change Copy Centers.
      3.   Manual changeable copy message centers shall not be internally lit
unless:
         a.   They use opaque inserts with translucent letters, numbers, or
symbols (see Figure
9-11-7  D.2., Changeable Copy Inserts);
         b.   Blank opaque inserts that are the same color as the opaque
portions of the letters, numbers, and symbols are used over all areas of the
sign where copy is not present; and
         c.   The opaque portion of the letters, numbers, and symbols is the
same color.
   Figure 9-11-7 D.1. Manual Changeable Copy Centers
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3045.png]
 
      The manual changeable copy message center (outlined in dashed blue line)
may occupy not more than fifty percent (50%) of the sign area (outlined in
dashed red line).
   Figure 9-11-7 D.2. Changeable Copy Inserts
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6728e5f229c43fa41dd4a307f658bd3bebf0d209/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3047.png]
 
      Changeable copy message centers may be internally lit if they use opaque
inserts with translucent letters, numbers of symbols (see A below), but shall
not be internally lit if they use clear or translucent inserts with opaque or
translucent letters, numbers or symbols (see B below).
(Ord. 2024-6, 3-7-2024; amd. Ord. 2025-7, 3-6-2025)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
SUBDIVISION PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Jurisdiction
10-1-4: Application And Interpretation
10-1-5: Rules And Definitions
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the SUBDIVISION
REGULATIONS ORDINANCE FOR THE VILLAGE OF WOODRIDGE, ILLINOIS. (1976 Code §16-1)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To provide one of several means for carrying out the intent of the
evolving comprehensive plan and thus ensure sound, harmonious development and
community growth.
   B.   To ensure the development of land to the highest possible standards of
design with all the necessary protection against deterioration and obsolescence
which would adversely affect the living environment or tax base.
   C.   To provide a procedure for a sound working relationship between the
village and the developer and to safeguard the interests of the homeowner, the
subdivider, the investor and the village.
   D.   To control the scattered and premature platting of lots beyond the
effective operating range of existing public utilities and improvements.
   E.   To ensure that the cost of design and installation of improvements in
new, platted subdivisions will be borne by the persons purchasing the lot
rather than by property owners who have already paid for the improvements
servicing their property in their own subdivisions already developed.
   F.   To coordinate new subdivision design with the design of the village as
a whole.
   G.   To secure the rights of the public with respect to public lands and
waters.
   H.   To improve land records by establishing standards for surveys and
plats. (1976 Code §16-2)
10-1-3: JURISDICTION:
No person shall subdivide any tract of land which is located within the village
in any unincorporated area which is located entirely or in part within one and
one-half (11/2) miles of the nearest limits of the village except in conformity
with the provisions of these regulations. (1976 Code §16-3)
10-1-4: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements. (1976
Code §16-11)
   B.   Conflicting Laws: Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this
title upon the use of land are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of this title or of any
other official policy, law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any
kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher
standards or requirements shall govern. (1976 Code §16-12)
   C.   Existing Agreements: This title is not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant or any other private agreement; provided, that where the
regulations of this title are more restrictive than other private agreements,
then the requirements of this title shall govern. (1976 Code §16-13)
10-1-5: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
The rules and definitions contained in this section shall be observed and
applied in the interpretation of all other provisions herein, except when the
context clearly indicates otherwise.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words used in the
singular number shall include the plural number and the plural the singular.
The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary; the word "may" is
permissive.
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALLEY: A minor right of way which is used primarily for vehicular access to the
back or side of properties abutting upon a street.
AS-BUILT DRAWINGS: A set of final plans reflecting the actual constructed
conditions or improvements on the property approved by the village and
certified by a registered professional engineer that actual construction is in
substantial conformance with the village approved final plans.
BUILDING LINE: A line within a lot so designated on the plat of the proposed
subdivision, between which line and any street line upon which the lot abuts
the erection of a building is prohibited.
CROSSWALKWAY: A strip of land dedicated to public use which is reserved across
a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one open end and being permanently terminated by a
vehicle turnaround.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation or a certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
INTERSECTION, STREET: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection
of the lateral curb lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area with which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict. Where a highway includes two
(2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more apart, then every crossing of each
roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting highway shall be regarded as
a separate intersection. In the event such intersecting highway also includes
two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more apart, then every crossing of two
(2) roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
LOT: A building site shown on a plat of subdivision recorded with the
appropriate county office and identifiable by reference to said plat of
subdivision rather than by metes and bounds.
LOT, FLAG: An "L" shaped lot meeting less than forty percent (40%) of the lot
width requirements at the front lot line per the respective zoning district.
PARCEL: Refers broadly to a lot, tract or any other piece of land.
PLAT: A map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plans of the
subdivision are presented and which he submits for approval first in
preliminary, then in final, form.
ROADWAY OR ROAD: The paved area existing on the street right of way and not the
street right of way width.
STREET: An area which primarily serves or is intended to serve as a vehicular
and pedestrian access to abutting lands or to other streets. The word "street"
refers to the width of the street right of way or easement, whether public or
private, and shall not be considered as the width of the roadway or paving or
other improvement on the street right of way.
STREET, LOCAL: A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
STREET, MAJOR: A street designed to serve as a major traffic artery for
movement of vehicles through the village or between various parts of the
village.
STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS: A local street which is parallel and adjacent to
thoroughfare streets and which provides access to abutting properties and
protection to local traffic from fast, through-moving traffic on the primary
streets and expressways.
STREET, SECONDARY TO COLLECTOR STREETS: A street which is used to carry traffic
from local thoroughfare streets.
SUBDIVISION: The division of land in two (2) or more parcels for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or building development,
including all public streets, alleys, easements for public service facilities,
parks, playgrounds, school grounds or other public grounds.
The following shall not be considered a subdivision and shall be exempt from
the requirements of this title:
   A.   The division of land for agricultural purposes into parcels of five (5)
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access.
   B.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interest therein for use as right
of way for railroads or other public utility facilities which does not involve
any new streets or easements of access.
   C.   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access.
   D.   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use.
   E.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances.
   F.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining and
contiguous land.
   G.   The division of a lot in a recorded subdivision into separate parcels,
each of which shall contain one single- family attached dwelling unit developed
pursuant to an approved final plan and plat of planned unit development or
final plan of regional planned unit development, for the purpose of
transferring ownership, which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access. (1976 Code §§16-25, 16-26, 16-28, 16-29; amd. Ord. 91-12, 4-11-1991;
Ord. 98-22, 4-23-1998; Ord. 2001-35, 6-28-2001; Ord. 2007-16, 4-5-2007)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Compliance With Provisions
10-2-2: Acts Prohibited Prior To Plat Approval
10-2-3: Public Dedications
10-2-4: Street Plan
10-2-5: Preservation Of Historical And Natural Features
10-2-6: Resubdivision
10-2-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
Wherever any subdivision of land shall hereafter be laid out, the subdivider
thereof or his agent shall submit a preliminary plat to the plan commission.
Said plats and plans of proposed improvements, and all procedure relating
thereto, shall in all respects be in full compliance with these regulations;
except, that a planned development may depart from the standards and
regulations of these regulations to the extent such departures either are
approved at the time that the land is classified into a planned development
district and the issuance of a special use permit is authorized, or are
approved in an annexation agreement entered into by the corporate authorities
pursuant to the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-15.1-1 et seq.
Thereafter, further departures may be approved by the plan commission. (Ord.
2001-35, 6-28-2001)
10-2-2: ACTS PROHIBITED PRIOR TO PLAT APPROVAL:
Until plats and plans for the subdivision are approved, properly endorsed and
recorded:
   A.   No land shall be subdivided, nor any street laid out, nor any
improvements made to the natural land.
   B.   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be offered
for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale or option be made or given.
   C.   No improvements such as sidewalks, water supply, stormwater drainage,
sanitary sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service or lighting,
grading, paving or surfacing of streets shall hereafter be made by any owner or
owners or his or their agent, or by any public service corporation at the
request of such owner or owners or his or their agent. (1976 Code §16-5)
10-2-3: PUBLIC DEDICATIONS:
All land offered to the village for use as streets, alleys, schools, parks and
other public uses shall be referred to the plan commission for review and
recommendation before being accepted by the village board or by any other
governing authority of the village. (1976 Code §16-6)
10-2-4: STREET PLAN:
In the case of preliminary plats for parts of tracts, where it appears
necessary to the plan commission for the satisfactory overall development of an
area, an owner may be required to prepare at least a street plan of his entire
tract based upon proper topographic surveys before approval of any portion of
such plan. (1976 Code §16-9)
10-2-5: PRESERVATION OF HISTORICAL AND NATURAL FEATURES:
In all subdivisions, due regard shall be given to the preservation of
historical sites and natural features such as large trees, watercourses and
scenic views. To ensure the preservation of trees, the village engineer shall
verify that tree protection measures are properly in place in accordance with a
tree preservation plan approved pursuant to title 9, chapter 13 of this code
prior to the commencement of any site development activities including tree
removal. At the discretion of the village engineer, verification of compliance
with the tree preservation plan may be performed by the developer's Illinois
registered landscape architect, forester certified by the Society Of American
Foresters, or arborist certified by the International Society Of Arboriculture,
which shall submit written certification to that effect. The village engineer
shall enforce the tree preservation plan and shall take enforcement action for
violations thereof that occur in conjunction with site development activities
until such time as a building permit is issued by the community development
department or until the completion of site development activities, whichever
occurs first. At his discretion, the village engineer may hire an arborist
certified by the International Society Of Arboriculture, forester certified by
the Society Of American Foresters or Illinois registered landscape architect at
the developer's expense in conjunction with the implementation and enforcement
of a tree preservation plan. (1976 Code §16-8; amd. Ord. 2004-10, 3-18-2004;
Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-2010)
10-2-6: RESUBDIVISION:
Whenever an area is subdivided into large lots which may at a later date be
resubdivided, consideration shall be given to the street and lot arrangement of
the original subdivision so that additional minor streets can be located which
will permit a logical arrangement of smaller lots. (1976 Code §16-10)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION PLATTING PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS 1
SECTION:
10-3-1: Pre-Application Procedure
10-3-2: Preliminary Plat
10-3-3: Final Plat
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 3-1A-3B2a of this Code for plan review fees.
10-3-1: PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the preapplication conference is to afford the
subdivider an opportunity to avail himself of the advice and assistance of the
Plan Commission and to consult early and informally with the Plan Commission
staff before preparation of the preliminary plat and before formal application
for its approval in order to save time and money and to make the most of his
opportunities.
   B.   Submission of Plans and Data: Prior to the filing of an application for
approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider may submit to the Plan
Commission plans and data as follows. This step does not require formal
application, fee or filing of the plat. (1976 Code §16-41)
Preapplication plans and data, which are recommended but not required, shall
comply with the following:
      1.   General Subdivision Information: General subdivision information
should describe or outline the existing conditions of the site and the proposed
development as necessary to supplement the drawings listed below. This
information may include data on existing covenants, land characteristics and
available community facilities and utilities; and information describing the
subdivision proposal such as number of residential lots, typical lot width and
depth, price range, business areas and other public areas, proposed protective
covenants and proposed utilities and street improvements.
      2.   Sketch Plan: Sketch plan, on topographic survey, should show in
simple sketch form the proposed layout of streets, lots and other features in
relation to existing conditions. The sketch plan may be a freehand pencil
sketch made directly on a print of the topographic survey. The sketch plan
should include the existing topographic data listed in subsection
10-3-2B of this Chapter. (1976 Code §16-55)
   C.   Plan Commission Decisions: Within forty five (45) days, the Plan
Commission shall inform the subdivider that the plans and data as submitted or
as modified do or do not meet the objectives of these regulations. When the
Plan Commission finds the plans and data do not meet the objectives of these
regulations, it shall express in writing to the subdivider its reasons
therefor. (1976 Code §16-41)
10-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Preparation and Submission of Preliminary Plat; Fee: The subdivider
shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat, together with supplementary
material as specified in subsection B of this Section. Twenty five (25) copies
of the preliminary plat and supplementary material specified shall be submitted
to the Village Clerk with written application for conditional approval.
At the time of filing for conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the
application shall be accompanied by a certified check or money order, payable
to the Village, to cover the cost of checking and verifying the preliminary
plat and final plat. The Village Board shall establish a schedule for fees.
(1976 Code §16-42)
   B.   Required Information for Preliminary Approval:
      1.   Existing Topographic Conditions: Topographic data required as a
basis for the preliminary plat in paragraph 2 of this subsection shall include
existing conditions as follows except when otherwise specified by the Plan
Commission:
         a.   Boundary Lines: Bearings and distances.
         b.   Easements: Location, width and purpose.
         c.   Streets On and Adjacent to the Tract: Name and right-of-way
width, elevation of surfacing, legally established center line elevations,
walks, curbs, gutters, culverts, etc.
         d.   Utilities On and Adjacent to the Tract: Location, size and invert
elevation of sanitary, storm and combined sewers; location and size of water
mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone lines and
street lights; direction and distance to and size of nearest water mains and
sewers adjacent to the tract showing invert elevation of sewers.
         e.   Ground Elevations on Tract, Based on Village Datum Plane: For
land that slopes less than one-half percent (1/2%), show one foot (1')
contours; show spot elevations at all breaks in grades, along all drainage
channels or swales and at selected points not more than one hundred feet (100')
apart in all directions; for land that slopes more than one-half percent (1/2%)
show two foot (2') contours.
         f.   Subsurface Conditions on Tract (If Required by Plan Commission):
Location and results of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil, rock and
ground water conditions; depth to ground water unless test pits are dry at a
depth of five feet (5'). (1976 Code §16-56)
         g.   Other conditions on tract: Watercourses, marshes, rock outcrop,
houses, barns, shacks, and other significant features. In addition, the
location of each tree six inches (6") in dbh and greater shall be shown on the
preliminary plat in relation to the proposed improvements in accordance with
section
9-13-3 of this code. (Ord. 2004-10, 3-18-2004)
         h.   Other conditions on adjacent land: Approximate direction and
gradient of ground slope, including any embankments or retaining walls;
character and location of buildings, railroads, power lines, towers and other
nearby nonresidential land uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent
unplatted land; for adjacent platted land, refer to subdivision plat by name,
recording date and number, and show approximate percent built up, typical lot
size and dwelling type.
         i.   Zoning: On and adjacent to the tract.
         j.   Proposed public improvements: Highways or other major
improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or
adjacent to the tract.
         k.   Title and certificates: Present tract designation according to
official records in offices of the county recorder; title under which proposed
subdivision is to be recorded, with names and addresses of owners, notation
stating acreage, scale, north arrow.
      2.   Contents Of Preliminary Plat: The preliminary plat shall be drawn to
a scale of one hundred feet to the inch (100' = 1"). It shall show all existing
conditions required in subsection B1 of this section, and shall show all
proposals including the following:
         a.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
         b.   Its location by section, township and range and as forming a part
of some larger tract or parcel of land referred to in the indexes of the
records of the county clerk.
         c.   Sufficient information to accurately locate the plat. (Reference
to existing streets, plats, etc., may be used. If there are none within a
reasonable distance of the proposed subdivision, a vicinity plat on a small
scale should accompany the preliminary plat.)
         d.   The description and location of all survey monuments erected in
the subdivision shall be shown.
         e.   The names and addresses of the persons to whom the notice of the
hearing to be held by the planning agency should be sent (the subdivider, the
designer of the subdivision and the owners of the land immediately adjoining
the land to be platted).
         f.   The names, locations, roadway widths, right of way widths,
approximate gradients and other dimensions of streets, alleys, easements, parks
and other open spaces.
         g.   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
churches and industry.
         h.   All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for public use or
reserved for the use of all property owners with the purpose indicated.
         i.   Location and size of utilities.
         j.   Block numbers and layout, numbers, dimensions and area of lots.
         k.   Building setback lines showing dimensions.
         l.   North point and scale and date of preparation. (1976 Code §16-56)
         m.   Tree preservation plan in accordance with section
9-13-3 of this code. (Ord. 2009-31, 7-16-2009)
      3.   Covenants: Draft of protective covenants (if any), whereby the
subdivider proposes to regulate the land use and otherwise protect the proposed
development. If none exist, a statement to this effect should be included.
(1976 Code §16-56)
   C.   Approval Procedure: Upon the receipt of the application by the village
clerk, the application shall be surrendered to the secretary of the plan
commission within forty eight (48) hours, and also within the forty eight (48)
hours, all applicable fees shall be surrendered to the director of finance for
deposit in the general fund. (1976 Code §16-42; amd. 1991 Code)
Following review of the preliminary plat and supporting material for conformity
to these regulations and following negotiations with the subdivider on changes
deemed advisable and the kind and extent of improvements to be made by him, the
plan commission shall, within ninety (90) days express its approval as a
conditional approval and shall state the conditions of such approval, if any,
or shall express its disapproval and its reasons therefor.
The action of the plan commission shall be noted on three (3) copies of the
preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any conditions determined. One
copy shall be returned to the subdivider, one copy forwarded with a report to
the village board and the other retained by the plan commission.
   D.   Approval Is Conditional: Conditional approval of a preliminary plat
shall not constitute approval of the final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an
expression of approval to the layout submitted on the preliminary plat as a
guide to the preparation of the final plat which will be submitted for approval
by the plan commission and for recording upon fulfillment of the requirements
of these regulations and the conditions of the conditional approval, if any.
(1976 Code §16-42)
10-3-3: FINAL PLAT:
The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as approved,
and if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the
approved preliminary plat which he proposes to record and develop at the time;
provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements of these
regulations.
   A.   Submission Of Improvement Specifications: Prior to the time of
submission of the final plat of subdivision, final plans and specifications for
public improvements shall be submitted in quadruplicate to the clerk and then
forwarded to the plan commission. They shall include at least the following:
(1976 Code §16-43)
      1.   Detailed drawings of a grading plan, street improvements plan,
sanitary sewer improvements plan, water system improvements plan, and tree
preservation plan in accordance with section
9-13-3 of this code. (Ord. 2009-31, 7-16-2009)
      2.   Plans and profiles, drawn at a scale not to exceed one inch equals
one hundred feet (1" = 100') horizontally and one inch to ten feet (1" = 10')
vertically, indicating additional horizontal and vertical location of streets,
sewers, appurtenances and the existing grade.
      3.   Detailed material and construction specifications concerning the
work to be performed including general conditions of the contract acceptable by
the village.
      4.   Upon receipt of these final plans, the plan commission shall refer
the same to the village engineer for his comments and corrections. The village
engineer shall review these plans for compliance with the village requirements
and shall return them together with his recommendations to the plan commission.
The village engineer may, at his discretion, confer with the engineer for the
developer concerning correction to the final plans prior to his final approval.
All final plans shall be submitted on twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24"
x 36") cloth or paper and shall bear the signature and seal of the Illinois
registered professional engineer under whose directions they were prepared.
   B.   Filing Of Final Plat: Twenty five (25) copies of the final plat and
other exhibits required for approval shall be prepared as specified in
subsection C of this section and shall be submitted to the village clerk and
then to the plan commission within twelve (12) months after approval of the
preliminary plat; otherwise, preliminary plat approval shall become null and
void unless an extension of time to be indicated on a development schedule is
applied for and is granted by the plan commission. (1976 Code §16-43)
   C.   Required Information:
      1.   Contents Of Final Plat: Shall be drawn on Mylar not to exceed twenty
four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") and shall be a scale of one inch
to one hundred feet (1" = 100'). Additionally, the plat shall be submitted in
digital format TIFF (tag image file format) or equivalent approved by the
village engineer. Where necessary, the plat may be on several sheets
accompanied by an index sheet showing the entire subdivision. For large
subdivisions, final plats may be submitted for approval in phases. The plan
commission may require the developer to submit a development schedule
describing each phase and its proposed date of construction. The final plat
shall show the following: (Ord. 2001-35, 6-28-2001; amd. Ord. 2002-24, 5-23-
2002)
         a.   Name of subdivision.
         b.   Location by township, section, town and range, or by other legal
description.
         c.   Scale one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100') (shown
graphically).
         d.   Date and north point.
         e.   Boundary of plat, based on an accurate traverse, with angles and
linear dimensions.
         f.   Exact locations, widths and names of all streets within and
adjoining the plat and the exact locations and widths of all crosswalk ways.
Streets that are obviously in alignment with others already existing and named
shall bear the names of the existing streets.
         g.   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines
or official monuments (not less than 3), which shall be accurately described in
the plat.
         h.   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles.
         i.   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings
and lengths of all arcs.
         j.   Locations, dimensions and purposes for all easements.
         k.   All block and lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in
feet and hundredths.
         l.   Location and description of permanent monument or bench marks.
         m.   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use with the purposes indicated thereon and of
any area to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property
owners. (Ord. 68-1, art. IV, §3; amd. Ord. 79-67, §2; Ord. 82-16, §§1–3)
         n.   Protective covenants which meet with the approval of the plan
commission shall be lettered on the final plat or attached thereto.
         o.   A summary on its face of all restrictions applicable to any part
of said subdivision relating to building restrictions, use restrictions,
building lines or otherwise.
         p.   A blank certificate of approval as set out in subsection D of
this section.
         q.   Certification by a registered surveyor in the form set out in
subsection D of this section.
         r.   Notarized certifications, by owner or owners, and by mortgagor or
lien holder of record, acknowledging the plat and the dedication of streets and
other public areas. (Ord. 68-1, art. IV, §3; amd. Ord. 79-67, §2; Ord. 82-16,
§§1–3; Ord. 98-49, 8-27-1998)
         s.   Elevation and floor plans of all proposed structures. (Ord. 2001-
35, 6-28-2001)
      2.   Accompanying Documents: Accompanying documents shall consist of:
         a.   An executed agreement in the form of an improvement agreement
approved by the village legal counsel from time to time, providing for the
completion and guarantee of all required improvements as specified in any
approved plans and specifications.
         b.   The letter of credit specified in the improvement agreement.
(Ord. 94-42, 6-9-1994)
      3.   Certificate From Collector: A certificate from the proper collector
thereof that he finds no delinquent general taxes and that all special
assessments constituting a lien on the whole or any part of the land to be
subdivided have been paid.
      4.   Title Report: A title report indicating current ownership of the
property intended to be subdivided. (Ord. 68-1, art. IV, §3; amd. Ord. 79-67,
§2; Ord. 82-16, §§1–3)
   D.   Approval Of Final Plat; Certificates: Within sixty (60) days after
application for approval of the final plat, the plan commission shall approve
or disapprove it. If the plan commission approves, it shall affix its seal upon
the plat together with the certifying signature of its chairman and secretary.
If it disapproves, it shall set forth its reasons in its own records and
provide the applicant with a copy. (Ord. 68-1, art. III, §3)
The village board shall, upon motion and majority vote, approve the final plat
and authorize the mayor and village clerk to sign the original drawing of the
final plat. The certificates on the final plat shall be in the following form
with the signatures of the president of the county board and the county clerk
to be necessary where the plat covers land in the unincorporated one and one-
half (11/2) mile fringe area:
      1.   Village Board Of Trustees:
Under the authority provided by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes and ordinance
adopted by the Village Board of the Village of Woodridge, this plat was given
approval by the Village of Woodridge and shall be recorded only by the Village
Clerk.
Approved by the Plan Commission at a meeting held    
   Chairman
   Secretary
Approved by the Village Board at a meeting held    
   Mayor
   Village Clerk
Approved by the Village Engineer:
Approved by the County Board of Commissioners of DuPage and/or Will County,
Illinois at a meeting held    
   President
   County Clerk
(Ord. 68-1, art. VII, §6; amd. 1991 Code)
      2.   Land Surveyor: Each final plat submitted to the Village for approval
shall carry a certificate signed by an Illinois registered land surveyor in
substantially the following form:
"I (name), hereby certify that I am an Illinois registered land surveyor in
compliance with the laws of the State of Illinois and that this plat correctly
represents a survey completed by me on (date); that all monuments shown thereon
actually exist, and material is accurately shown".
   SEAL
                                                
   Signature
Illinois Land Surveyor No.                           
      3.   Deed: Each final plat submitted to the Village for approval shall
carry a deed of dedication in substantially the following form:
"We, the undersigned (name), owners of the real estate shown and described
herein, do hereby lay off, plat and subdivide said real estate in accordance
with the within plat. This subdivision shall be known and designated as (name).
All streets and alleys and public open spaces shown and not heretofore
dedicated, are hereby dedicated to the public. Building setback lines are
hereby established as shown on this plat, between which lines and the property
lines of the streets, there shall be erected or maintained no building or
structure. There are strips of ground (number) feet in width, as shown on this
plat and marked "easement" reserved for the use of public utilities for the
installation of water and sewer mains, ducts, lines and wires, subject at all
times to the proper authorities and to the easement herein reserved. No
permanent or other structures are to be erected or maintained upon said strips
of land, but owners of lots in this subdivision shall take their titles subject
to the rights of the public utilities, and to the rights of the owners of other
lots in this subdivision.
(Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions,
shall be inserted here upon the subdivider's initiative or the recommendation
of the Plan Commission or Village Board; important provisions are those
specifying the use to be made of the property and, in the case of residential
use, the minimum habitable floor area.) If there are none, so state.
The foregoing covenants (or restrictions), are to run with the land and shall
be binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until January 1,
19____, (twenty five [25] year period is suggested); at which time, said
covenants (or restrictions) shall be automatically extended for successive
periods of ten (10) years unless indicated otherwise by negative vote of a
majority of the then owners of the building sites covered by these covenants
(or restrictions) in whole or in part, which said vote will be evidenced by a
petition in writing signed by the owners and duly recorded. Invalidation of any
order shall in no way affect any of the other various covenants or
restrictions, which shall remain in full force and effect.
The right to enforce these provisions by injunction together with the right to
cause the removal, by due process of law, of any structure or part thereof
erected or maintained in violation thereof, is hereby dedicated to the public,
and reserved to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and
to their heirs and assigns".
WITNESS our Hands and Seals this _________ day of _______________, 19__________
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
State of Illinois
County of                                      
Before me, the undersigned notary public, in and for the County and State,
personally appeared (name), (name), (name), and each separately and severally
acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her voluntary
act and deed, for the purposes therein expressed.
WITNESS my Hand and Notarial Seal this __________ day of ___________, 19 ____
                                                 
   Notary Public
      4.   Additional Certificates and Documents: Such other certificates,
affidavits, endorsements or dedications as may be required by the Plan
Commission or the Village Board in these enforcement regulations. (1976 Code
§16-116)
   E.   Filing Final Plat: After approval of the final plat by the Plan
Commission and the fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations, one
tracing of the final plat of the subdivision, drawn in ink on tracing cloth or
other permanent plastic base, shall be submitted to the Village Board for
approval. (1976 Code §16-43)
   F.   Recording Final Plat: Upon approval by the Village Board, the Village
Clerk shall record the plat in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of DuPage
and/or Will County, Illinois. The Village Clerk shall also maintain a file of
all approved plats and supporting materials. (1976 Code §16-43; 1991 Code)
The Village Clerk shall submit to the Village Engineer all information
necessary to have the final plat recorded on the Village base maps at the
proper scale. (1976 Code §16-43)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Minimum Standards; Compliance With Comprehensive Plan
10-4-2: Streets And Alleys
10-4-3: Block Standards
10-4-4: Lot Standards
10-4-5: Easements
10-4-6: Public Lands
10-4-7: Delineation Of Stormwater Management Areas
10-4-1: MINIMUM STANDARDS; COMPLIANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The following are hereby adopted as the minimum standards of design of a
subdivision. In addition, all subdivisions shall conform to all applicable
elements of the official comprehensive plan including any change in these
standards which is indicated by an applicable plan element. (1976 Code §16-69)
10-4-2: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Streets:
      1.   General Provisions: A public street or streets shall be provided to
afford convenient access to all property within the subdivision.
         a.   No private street or thoroughfare shall be permitted, except by
special permit.
         b.   The proposed street system shall conform with all policy and
graphic elements of the official comprehensive plan or if a preliminary plat
for a planned development has been approved, with the said approved preliminary
plat for a planned development.
         c.   Where, according to an official plan element, it is desirable to
provide for street access to adjoining property, the proposed streets shall be
extended by dedication to the boundary of such property. (1976 Code §16-70)
      2.   Street Design Specifications:
         a.   Design regulations governing thoroughfares as designated by the
plan commission shall be in accordance with standards of design established by
the director of public works. (1976 Code §16-70; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 2011-21,
5-12-2011)
         b.   The elimination of street jogs with centerline offsets of less
than one hundred twenty five feet (125').
         c.   A tangent of at least one hundred feet (100') long shall be
required between reverse curves on collector streets.
         d.   Where connecting and horizontal street lines within a block
deflect from each other at any one point more than ten degrees (10°), there
shall be a connecting curve. Minimum centerline horizontal curvature shall be:
 
Secondary streets 300 feet
(collector)
Minor streets     150 feet
 
         e.   Gradients of all streets shall be at least one percent (1%) and
shall not exceed five percent (5%).
         f.   Different connecting street gradients shall be connected with
vertical parabolic curves. Minimum length in feet of these curves shall provide
a stopping sight distance of not less than three hundred feet (300').
         g.   It shall be evidenced that all street intersections and
confluences encourage safe and efficient traffic flow.
         h.   Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment or a
continuation of existing streets shall bear the name of such existing streets.
In no case shall the name for proposed streets duplicate existing street names
irrespective of the use of the suffix such as street, avenue, road, boulevard,
drive, place or court. (1976 Code §16-70)
   B.   Alleys: Alleys may be provided at the rear of all lots or tracts
intended for business, commercial, industrial or multiple-family building use,
but shall not be provided in single-family residential blocks.
   C.   Right Of Way Widths:
      1.   The minimum width of right of way of a street, alley or
thoroughfare, measured between the lines of property abutting upon the right of
way, shall not be less than the following:
         a.   Major streets to be used by fast or heavy traffic and designated
as such through an official plan element by the village board shall be one
hundred feet (100') or as shown on the plan, whichever is greater.
         b.   Streets in the industrial zoning district shall be sixty feet
(60') with an additional twenty five foot (25') utility easement on each side.
         c.   Other nonresidential streets shall be sixty six feet (66').
         d.   Local streets shall be sixty six feet (66').
         e.   Secondary streets shall be eighty feet (80'). (1976 Code §16-70)
         f.   Cul-de-sacs (permanent dead end streets with permanent
turnarounds having an inside diameter of not less than 120 feet) shall be sixty
six feet (66') wide and no longer than four hundred feet (400') as measured
from the intersecting centerlines of the cul-de-sac and the nearest
intersecting street to the center of the cul-de-sac diameter. (Ord. 2001-35, 6-
28-2001)
         g.   Alleys to serve business or industrial areas shall be thirty feet
(30').
         h.   Alleys to serve multi-family residential blocks, where required,
shall be twenty eight feet (28').
         i.   Marginal access streets shall be forty feet (40').
      2.   In the case of the extension of an existing adjoining right of way,
having a width less than the minimum requirements, the plan commission may
approve the extension thereof at the same width.
      3.   The entire right of way shall be dedicated where any part of the
subdivision is on both sides of an existing or proposed right of way or on one
side of a right of way proposed to serve the subdivision exclusively.
      4.   When the subdivision is located on only one side of an existing or
proposed right of way, the subdivider shall dedicate any additional right of
way necessary to meet the minimum requirement, but not exceeding one-half (1/2)
of the total required width, unless the street will serve that subdivision
exclusively.
      5.   In the case where topography or other conditions make dedication of
a street or part thereof the required minimum width impractical, the plan
commission may modify the above requirements. It may also increase the minimum
width subject to approval by the village board.
      6.   Marginal access streets shall be located in the rights of way of the
thoroughfares where access streets are required by the plan commission.
Additional land for right of way needed to secure designated width (measured
from established centerline of right of way) for thoroughfares shall be
reserved in the subdivision plat.
      7.   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of the regulations, and where the plan commission finds it will be
practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. A right of way width of not less than forty feet (40')
shall be required for the half street. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a
tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within
such tract.
      8.   Pedestrianways with a minimum width of twelve feet (12') may be
required if deemed necessary by the plan commission.
      9.   There shall be provision for serving lots abutting thoroughfares and
highways by either the use of: a) marginal access street, b) backing lots to
the arterial street with a screen planting contained in a nonaccess reservation
along the rear property line, c) deeper lots fronting on the arterial street
with local street access from the rear. These methods are recommended for the
purpose of providing adequate protection of residential properties and to
afford separation of through and local traffic. (1976 Code §16-70)
10-4-3: BLOCK STANDARDS:
   A.   Length: Blocks shall not be less than four hundred feet (400') nor more
than one thousand eight hundred feet (1,800') in length, except as the plan
commission considers necessary to secure efficient use of land or desired
features of street pattern.
In blocks one thousand feet (1,000') or more in length, the plan commission may
require a public crosswalk for pedestrian travel of not less than five feet
(5') in width to extend entirely across the block at the location deemed
necessary.
   B.   Width: Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two (2) tiers of lots,
except where fronting on major streets or prevented by topographical conditions
or size of the property, in which case the plan commission may approve a single
tier of lots. The plan commission shall not approve individual lot access to
major streets from a single tiered lot, however. (1976 Code §16-71)
10-4-4: LOT STANDARDS:
   A.   Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   B.   Design and size of residential lots served by a public sewerage system
and public water supply system or a village franchised private system shall
conform with the zoning title 1  or with all graphic and policy plan elements
wherever additional standards showing greater detail than the existing zoning
are proposed.
   C.   The size of lots or tracts laid out and intended for business, industry
or multiple-family dwelling use shall be adequate to provide for off street
service and parking facilities required by the zoning title 2  for the type of
use and development contemplated. (1976 Code §16-72)
   D.   Flag lots shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2007-16, 4-5-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
2 1. See title 9, chapter 10 of this code.
10-4-5: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Where no alleys are provided, easements of not less than ten feet (10')
in width shall be dedicated for poles, wires, conduits, storms and sanitary
sewer, gas, water or other utility pipes or lines along the rear of each lot
and along the side lot lines where necessary. The easements shall be laid out
with continuity from lot to lot and from block to block. No building shall be
constructed upon the easements.
   B.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel
or stream, there shall be provided a drainage easement conforming substantially
with the lines of such watercourses. It shall include an additional area at
least fifteen feet (15') wide adjoining both edges of the established
floodplain area as certified by the subdivider or his engineer. (1976 Code §16-
73)
10-4-6: PUBLIC LANDS:
   A.   Public Uses: All sites within the area of a preliminary plat which are
proposed by any official plan element for a public use such as a school, major
village park, municipal building, etc., shall be reserved on the preliminary
plat for one year from the date of approval of that plat. The responsible
agency may accept dedication or must purchase the site within that year, or the
owner may submit his own proposal for its use. The responsible agency may
extend the reservation period one additional year by passing a resolution
expressing its intent to acquire the proposed site.
   B.   Integral Open Space: Each subdivision shall be designed with fifteen
percent (15%) of its net residential land area in integral open space to
provide recreational opportunity and amenity for the benefit of the dwellers in
that subdivision. The village board may accept dedication of this land or may
receive its permanent protection, or equivalent, by any other suitable legal
means. (1976 Code §16-74)
10-4-7: DELINEATION OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT AREAS:
All areas of a subdivision designated for storm water retention and detention
shall be subdivided as separate lots within said subdivision. If this is not
practical, then that portion of a lot used for storm water retention or
detention purposes must be part of a dedicated drainage easement. All such
storm water management areas shall be maintained by the subdivision homeowners'
association. (Ord. 2001-35, 6-28-2001)
CHAPTER 5
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Monuments
10-5-2: Storm Drains
10-5-3: Sanitary Sewers
10-5-4: Water Supply
10-5-5: Utility Services
10-5-6: Street And Alley Pavements
10-5-7: Sidewalks And Bikeways
10-5-8: Street Signs
10-5-9: Streetlights
10-5-10: Street Trees
10-5-11: Topsoil/Turf Establishment
10-5-12: Dedication Of Park Lands And School Sites Or For Payments Or Fees In
Lieu Of
10-5-1: MONUMENTS:
   A.   Permanent monuments shall be placed at all points of tangency of curb
lines and at all corners of the boundary of the subdivision, and such permanent
monuments shall also be placed in the same manner upon all lands within the
subdivision dedicated for public or quasi-public ways.
   B.   All lot corners not marked by concrete monuments shall be marked by
galvanized or wrought iron pipe or iron or steel bars at least eighteen inches
(18") in length and not less than one-half inch (1/2") in diameter. The top of
the pipe or bar is to be set level with the established grade of the ground.
   C.   In addition, a minimum of one permanent bench mark shall be established
for twenty (20) acres, or fraction thereof, subdivided and at a location
designated by the village engineer. This monument shall be of concrete with a
minimum dimension of four inches by four inches (4" x 4") at top, six inches by
six inches (6" x 6") at bottom, and forty eight inches (48") long with a brass
plate securely fastened to the surface. On the brass plate shall be inscribed
the number and elevation of the bench mark. (1976 Code §16-88)
10-5-2: STORM DRAINS:
   A.   An adequate system of storm water drainage designed for a ten (10) year
maximum rain shall be constructed and installed consisting of pipes, tiles,
manholes, inlets, catch basins and other necessary facilities that will
adequately drain the subdivision and protect roadway pavements and will prevent
the accumulation of storm water at any place under normal conditions. The
design and construction of such storm water drainage system shall comply in all
respects with the standard specifications for the village found in article A of
this chapter and specifically with section
10-5A-3 of this chapter. In addition, all drainage systems shall be subject to
approval by the village engineer.
   B.   Back yard swales in residence districts may be permitted, subject to
the following regulations:
      1.   Maximum and minimum slopes and general design criteria of the
federal housing administration's "Minimum Property Requirements" (latest
edition) will be acceptable except as herein modified.
      2.   No continuous swale shall have a length exceeding six hundred feet
(600'). (1976 Code §16-89)
      3.   Minimum grade of the flow line shall be two percent (2%). (Ord. 98-
22, 4-23-1998)
      4.   At no point in the swale shall the flow line be more than three feet
(3') below the finished grade of the topsoil at the foundation of the house
opposite the swale.
      5.   No change in alignment of a back yard swale shall exceed forty five
degrees (45°). (1976 Code §16-89)
10-5-3: SANITARY SEWERS:
A complete system of sanitary sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire
subdivision in such a manner as to service every lot. Said system of sanitary
sewers shall be required for any subdivision when the premises comprising the
subdivision would be required to connect to a public sanitary sewer in
accordance with the standards set forth in subsection 7-5C-1D of this code,
which are incorporated herein. (1976 Code §16-90; amd. Ord. 98-40, 7-9-1998)
The design and construction of such sanitary sewer system shall comply in all
respects with the standard specifications for the village found in article A of
this chapter and specifically with section
10-5A-2 of this chapter. In addition, the village engineer shall specify the
sizes of all sewer lines. (1976 Code §16-90)
10-5-4: WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Public Water Supply: When located within the service area of a public
water supply system, water mains of not less than six inches (6") in diameter
(larger if specified by the village engineer) shall be constructed throughout
the entire subdivision in such manner as to serve adequately all lots and
tracts with connection to such public system together with shut off valves and
fire hydrants. Said system of water mains shall be required for any subdivision
when the premises comprising the subdivision would be required to connect to a
public water system in accordance with the standards set forth in subsection 7-
5B-1A of this code, which are incorporated herein. (1976 Code §16-91; amd. Ord.
98-40, 7-9-1998)
The design and construction of such water supply system shall comply in all
respects with the standard specifications for the village found in article A of
this chapter and specifically with section
10-5A-7 of this chapter. In addition, the village engineer shall make water
distribution improvement recommendations in accordance with the water system
analysis and water revenue/rate study, prepared by Crawford, Murphy and Tilly,
Inc., consulting engineers, dated July 1, 1981. (1976 Code §16-91)
   B.   Well Water: Where lots cannot be connected with the public water supply
system, provision must be made for a water supply suitable for domestic use
approved by the DuPage and/or Will County department of public health. (1976
Code §16-91; amd. 1991 Code)
10-5-5: UTILITY SERVICES:
   A.   All communication, power and other service lines shall be placed in
underground easements.
   B.   Conduit or cables shall be placed within easements or dedicated public
ways in a manner which will not conflict with other underground services.
Further, all transformer boxes shall be located so as not to be unsightly or
hazardous to the public.
   C.   All drainage and underground utility installations which traverse
privately owned property shall be protected by easements.
   D.   In subdivisions containing lots of one and one-half (11/2) acres in
area and less than five (5) acres and where future resubdivision of lots is
possible, easements for future street and utility lines shall be shown at
locations necessary to serve future lots.
   E.   Permits for utility services shall be obtained from the enforcing
officer of this title for the installation of communication, electric power,
gas and other utility services before any installation is started. (1976 Code
§16-92)
   F.   In all situations where the potable water, sanitary sewer, and/or storm
sewer systems are being extended to provide service to a new property, such
utility system shall be extended to the far side of the property in order to be
available for future extensions by subsequent property owners. (Ord. 2013-53,
10-24-2013)
10-5-6: STREET AND ALLEY PAVEMENTS:
   A.   Street Pavements:
      1.   All street pavements within the subdivision shall be designed in
accordance with the standard specifications for the village found in article A
of this chapter and specifically with section
10-5A-5 of this chapter, and with the structural design procedures and the
minimum requirements contained in the following manuals:
         a.   "Design Manual", Illinois department of transportation bureau of
design, latest edition, as amended.
         b.   "Highway Standards", Illinois department of transportation bureau
of design, latest edition, as amended.
A copy of all design assumptions and computations on which the proposed design
is based shall be submitted to the village engineer for review and approval.
(1976 Code §16-93)
      2.   All streets within the subdivision, including that portion of any
street or public thoroughfare which abuts any property within the subdivision,
shall be improved by the developer with curbs and gutters which shall be
constructed in accordance with the standard specifications found in article A
of this chapter and specifically with section
10-5A-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 98-22, 4-23-1998)
The minimum width of the paved roadway, back to back of curb, shall be as
follows:
         a.   On local streets and cul-de-sac streets, not less than twenty
eight feet (28').
         b.   On secondary streets, not less than thirty six feet (36').
         c.   On major streets, not less than forty eight feet (48').
         d.   On streets through industrial areas, not less than forty feet
(40').
         e.   On marginal access streets, not less than twenty five feet (25').
         f.   Pavements in cul-de-sac turnarounds in all developments shall
have a minimum diameter of eighty two feet (82').
Before any paving work is commenced, all street grading shall be properly
completed as shown on the grading plan submitted with the final plat of
subdivision.
All underground work, such as sewer, water, house service connections and all
related backfilling and compaction of trenches shall be completed before any
paving work is commenced. (1976 Code §16-93)
   B.   Alley Pavements: All alleys shall be improved with a roadway consisting
of not less than eight inches (8") of waterbound macadam when thoroughly
compacted and two inches (2") of bituminous concrete surface of the following
widths:
      1.   Through apartment district blocks, not less than twenty four feet
(24').
      2.   Through business and industrial blocks, not less than twenty six
feet (26'). (1976 Code §16-94)
10-5-7: SIDEWALKS AND BIKEWAYS:
Sidewalks shall be required on each side of the street in all subdivisions. All
streets within the subdivision, including that portion of any street or public
thoroughfare which abuts any property within the subdivision, shall be improved
by the developer with sidewalks. In all districts, sidewalks shall be
constructed in the right of way with the near edge of the sidewalk one foot
(1') from the property line. Should the right of way not provide sufficient
space for street tree plantings and sidewalks, the sidewalk may be placed upon
a sidewalk easement that runs to the village. Sidewalks shall be constructed in
accordance with the standard specifications for the village found in article A
of this chapter and specifically with section
10-5A-6 of this chapter. Additionally, the width of all sidewalks constructed
shall be a minimum of five feet (5') in all districts. Should the subdivision
be located along a portion of a planned bikeway, the subdivider may be required
to install a bikeway, built to such specifications as determined necessary by
the village, in lieu of the required sidewalk in that location. (Ord. 98-22, 4-
23-1998)
10-5-8: STREET SIGNS:
The subdivision shall be provided with street signs of a type and erected at
locations and in a manner as shown in the approved plans or as directed by the
village engineer. All street signs shall be designed and erected in accordance
with the standard specifications of the village of Woodridge.
   A.   Sign Specification:
 
Material        Flat aluminum .080
Sign face size  9 inch height
Background      Engineer grade white
Boarder         Engineer grade green
                  3/4 inch
Primary letters Engineer grade green
                6 inch C series
 
   B.   Mounting Requirements: Signs shall be mounted on streetlight poles
whenever possible.
      1.   Light Pole Mounting:
 
Height (lower sign) 11 feet
Bracket             8L (VS-1C cantilever)
Cross bracket       Hall #990 cross
Strapping material  Band-It Valustrap Plus
 
      2.   Post Mounting:
 
Height (lower sign) 7 feet
                    Round 23/8 inch
                    aluminum post
Post type           Alloy 6063-T6
                    Weight per foot
                    0.931 pounds
Length              10 feet
Brackets (hall)     Cap #992 cross #990
 
(Ord. 2000-54, 10-12-2000)
10-5-9: STREETLIGHTS:
Streetlights shall be required within the subdivision, including that portion
of any street or public thoroughfare which abuts any property within the
subdivision, and shall be installed by the developer in accordance with the
standard specifications for the village found in article A of this chapter and
specifically with section
10-5A-4 of this chapter. In addition, all street lighting installations shall
be completed within one year after the commencement of the construction of any
improvements. (1976 Code §16-97; amd. Ord. 98-22, 4-28-1998)
10-5-10: STREET TREES 1 :
   A.   Number And Location: Street trees shall be planted in the right of way
of all streets within the subdivision, including that portion of any street or
right of way, which abuts any property within the subdivision ("public way").
The trees shall be spaced according to size and type (small, medium, or large).
When conditions are such that the required spacing cannot be satisfied in the
public way or if in the opinion of the village engineer the public way is not
wide enough to support tree growth the trees shall be planted inside the
sidewalk line. (Ord. 2001-08, 3-22-2001)
   B.   Types Permitted: Trees to be planted in any public way shall be
selected from the lists of authorized tree species provided for in section
7-4-4 of this code, and/or other species as approved by the director of public
works. (Ord. 2007-57, 10-11-2007)
   C.   Spacing Of Trees: Spacing of trees in public ways shall be as follows:
 
             Minimum Maximum
                    
Small trees  20 feet 30 feet
Medium trees 30 feet 45 feet
Large trees  45 feet 55 feet
 
between other new and/or existing shade trees, whether on public ways or
private property. Spacing of existing trees shall be brought into conformity
with the above distances through normal attrition and gradual planned removal
of undesirable and deformed trees. Where different sizes of trees are being
planted, the spacing requirement for the largest size tree being planted shall
control.
   D.   Planting Requirements: The species of trees so planted shall be
alternated so those trees of the same species shall not be planted
consecutively unless authorized by the village engineer. The planting schedule
and sequence shall be subject to the approval of the village engineer.
   E.   General Criteria:
      1.   All trees shall be grown in a nursery located in the northern half
of the state of Illinois and licensed by the state of Illinois.
      2.   Newly planted street trees shall not be less than three inches (3")
in caliper, measured six inches (6") from the ground, shall have a continuous
single stem branched at a minimum of five feet (5') aboveground before pruning
and shall be free from deformity and any indication of undesirable growth
characteristics.
      3.   Trees when planted shall be healthy, free of infectious disease,
insect infestation, bark bruises and scrapes on the trunk before and after
planting.
      4.   Planting of trees is prohibited if such planting will unduly
interfere with existing overhead utility lines when tree matures.
      5.   Trees shall be planted on the centerline of the parkway, or in line
with majority of trees existing. No tree shall be planted on parkways less than
four feet (4') wide, except where conditions are such that offset planting may
be desirable or beneficial, unless in the judgment of the village engineer the
species of tree approved will not endanger sidewalk, curb or other physical
property.
      6.   No tree shall be planted closer than thirty five feet (35') to any
street corner, measured from the point of the nearest intersecting curbs or
curb lines. No tree shall be planted closer than ten feet (10') to any fire
hydrant or driveway, or twenty feet (20') to any streetlight.
      7.   The perimeter of the planting hole shall extend a minimum of two
feet (2') beyond the sides of the root ball on all sides. The sides of the hole
shall gradually slope making the hole saucer shaped or bowl shaped. All trees
will be planted to the depth of the root collar. The root system of all trees
shall be balled and burlapped with a minimum root ball of thirty three inches
(33") for a three inch (3") in caliper tree.
      8.   A doughnutlike circle of soil shall be cultivated eight (8) to
twelve inches (12") deep and eighteen inches (18") wide around the root ball. A
four inch (4") layer of organic mulch shall be spread over the planting hole
coming no closer than six inches (6") to the trunk. The tree shall be initially
watered to remove any air pockets from the soil and later as necessary to
maintain a healthy, vigorous condition.
      9.   All tags, wires, plastic ties and rope shall be removed from each
tree to prevent girdling the tree. The burlap shall be pulled back from the
upper third of the root ball. If plastic burlap is used, it shall be removed in
its entirety from the root ball. The village shall determine whether or not
staking is required.
      10.   The planting season shall be October 1 to December 1 and March 15
to June 15. (Ord. 2001-08, 3-22-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 7, chapter 4 of this code.
10-5-11: TOPSOIL/TURF ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   Required Areas; Type: All portions of the parcel including the parkway
area not having pavement, sidewalk or other similar type materials placed
thereon are to be provided with adequate topsoil having a minimum thickness of
four inches (4") and graded as required to finished grades established on the
grading plan. Topsoil shall be scarified as required. Upon spreading and
grading the topsoil, the owner shall lay sod or sow an approved commercial
perennial blend of grass seed at a minimum of five (5) pounds per one thousand
(1,000) square feet. Once sodded or seeded, the parcel shall be maintained, and
if required, the sod shall be replaced or the parcel shall be reseeded until
such time the grass is established and growing.
   B.   Watering Sod: During the first ten (10) days after new sod has been
placed, property owners may use water from the village of Woodridge water
distribution system for watering or sprinkling of new sod, as follows:
      1.   On the first day sod is placed, the property owner may water the sod
for any eight (8) hours.
      2.   For the next nine (9) days after the sod has been placed, the
property owner may water the sod every day between the hours of six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M., and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   C.   Watering Seed: Properties that are newly seeded may, in addition to the
permitted watering in subsection B of this section, also use a handheld garden
hose to water newly seeded area(s) or an automatic, underground sprinkling
system at any time up until the first mowing of the newly seeded area(s). (Ord.
2002-25, 5-23-2002)
10-5-12: DEDICATION OF PARK LANDS AND SCHOOL SITES OR FOR PAYMENTS OR FEES IN
LIEU OF:
As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or a final plan and
plat of a planned unit development, or of a final plan of a regional planned
unit development, each subdivider or developer will be required to dedicate
land for park and recreational purposes and land for school sites to serve the
immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, or a cash
contribution in lieu of actual land dedication, or a combination of both, at
the option of the village, in accordance with the following criteria and
formula:
   A.   Criteria For Requiring Park And Recreation Land Dedication:
      1.   Requirements And Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a
proposed development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required for
dedication. The total requirement shall be five and five-tenths (5.5) acres of
land per one thousand (1,000) of ultimate population. The required five and
five- tenths (5.5) acres may be allocated by the village board, at its
discretion, based upon the following criteria:
 
Types Of Recreation Area      Size Range                Minimum Acres Per 1,000
                                                        People
(a) Play lot                  Minimum - 8,000 square    n/a
                              feet
(b) School/park (neighborhood Minimum - 5 acres         1.25
    playground)
(c) Neighborhood park         Minimum - 31/2 acres      1.0
(d) Districtwide park or play Minimum - 4 acres, up to  1.25
    field                     30 acres
(e) Communitywide recreation  Minimum - 12 acres, up to 2.0
    park                      30 acres
                               Total               5.5 acres of land per
                                                        1,000 people
 
      2.   Location: The comprehensive park and recreation plan and/or the
"standards by types of recreation and park area" as adopted by the Woodridge
park district shall be used as a guideline in locating sites. A park site
adjoining all elementary school sites of not less than five (5) acres shall be
considered a requirement. A central location which will serve equally the
entire development is most desirable. In large developments these sites can be
located throughout the development according to established standards for park
area distances.
      3.   Credit For Private Open Spaces And Recreation Areas: When
subdividers or developers provide their own open space for recreation areas and
facilities, it has the effect of reducing the demand for local public
recreational services. Depending on the size of the development, a portion of
the park and recreational area in subdivisions, planned unit developments, or
regional planned unit developments may, at the option of the village board, be
provided in the form of "private" open space in lieu of dedicated "public" open
space. The extent of same shall be determined by the village board, based upon
the needs of the projected residents and in conformance to the total park and
recreation land for the general area.
In general, a substitution of private open space for dedicated parks will imply
a substantially higher degree of improvement and the installation of
recreational facilities, including equipment by the developer as part of his
obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including specifications of
facilities to be installed, must be approved by the village, and before any
credit is given for private recreation areas, the subdivider or developer must
guarantee that these private recreation areas will be permanently maintained
for such use by the execution of the appropriate legal documents. When an
adjustment for private recreation areas is warranted, it will be necessary to
compute the total park land dedication that would have been required from the
subdivision, planned unit development, or regional planned unit development and
then subtract the credit to be given.
   B.   Criteria For Requiring School Site Dedication:
      1.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate number of students to
be generated by a subdivision, planned unit development, or regional planned
unit development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required to be
dedicated for school sites. The land dedication requirement shall be determined
by obtaining the ratio of: a) estimated children to be served in each such
school classification over the b) maximum recommended number of students to be
served in each such school classification as stated herein, and then applying
such ratio to the c) said minimum recommended number of acres for a school site
of each such school classification as stated herein. The product thereof shall
be the acres of land deemed needed to have a sufficient land for school sites
to serve the estimated increased children in each such school classification.
      2.   School Classification And Size Of School Site: Classifications and
size of school sites within the village shall be determined in accordance with
the following criteria:
 
School                 Maximum Number Of Students   Minimum Number Acres Of
Classification Grade   For Each Such School         Land For Each School Site
                       Classification               For Such Classification
                                                 
Elementary schools       600   students     11 acres
grades – K–5
Junior high schools      900   students     19 acres
grades – 6–8
High schools             2,300   students   48 acres
grades – 9–12
 
      3.   Location: The comprehensive school plan and/or the standards adopted
by the affected school district shall be used as a guideline in locating sites.
   C.   Contribution In Lieu Of Procedure:
      1.   Criteria For Requiring A Contribution In Lieu Of Park And School
Sites:
         a.   Where the development is small and the resulting site is too
small to be practical or when the available land is inappropriate for park and
recreational purposes or a school site, the village shall require the
subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land
dedication required. The cash contributions in lieu of park and recreation land
dedication shall be held in trust by the village, or other public body
designated by the village, solely for the acquisition of park and recreation
land as hereinbefore classified, which will be available to serve the immediate
or future needs of the residents of that subdivision or development or for the
improvement of other existing local park and recreation land which already
serves such needs.
         b.   The cash contributions in lieu of school sites shall be held in
trust by the village, or other public body designated by the village, solely
for use in the acquisition of land for a school site to serve the immediate or
future needs of children from that subdivision or development, or for the
improvement to any existing school site which already serves such needs.
         c.   Improvements under this section shall be liberally construed and
shall include, but shall not be limited to: 1) the development of parking lots;
2) sidewalks; 3) traffic signals; 4) arterial streets; 5) collector streets; 6)
internal roadways; 7) connections with sewer, water and electrical lines; 8)
playgrounds; 9) recreation grounds; and 10) athletic fields. Improvements shall
also include the purchase of any material goods or equipment necessary to said
development and construction. Improvements shall further include the
construction of buildings; additions to existing school buildings; remodeling
or renovating noninstructional spaces in classrooms and the purchase of
prefabricated classroom units to be used at a school site.
         d.   If any improvement provided for herein shall require voter
referendum approval under existing statutory authority before such funds may be
lawfully expended, then, and in those cases, such approval shall be first
obtained. If any portion of a cash contribution in lieu of park and recreation
land dedication, or cash contribution in lieu of school site is not expended
for the purposes set forth herein within ten (10) years from the date of
receipt, it shall be refunded to the owners of record of all lots, except lots
dedicated pursuant to the provisions of this section, in the subdivision or
development for which such contribution was made. The refund shall be paid to
the person who is the owner of record on the day which is the tenth anniversary
of the receipt of such contribution. The amount of the refund due to each lot
owner shall be equal to the amount of the original contribution, together with
accrued interest thereon, if any, divided by the total number of lots in the
subdivision (excluding only those lots which were dedicated pursuant to this
section) for which such contribution was made. (Ord. 98-22, 4-23-1998)
      2.   Fair Market Value: The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be
based on the fair market value of the acres of land in the area improved, as
specified herein, that otherwise would have been dedicated as park and
recreation and school sites. It has been determined that the present fair
market value of such improved land in and surrounding the village is one
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) per acre, and such figure shall be
used in making any calculation herein unless the subdivider or developer files
a written objection thereto. In the event of any such objection, the subdivider
or developer shall submit an appraisal showing the fair market value of such
improved land in the area of his development or other evidence thereof, and
final determination of said fair market value per acre of such improved land
shall be made by the village board based upon such information submitted by the
subdivider or developer and from other sources which may be submitted to the
village board by the park district, school district or others. (Ord. 98-22, 4-
23-1998; amd. Ord. 2001-35, 6-28-2001; Ord. 2005-33, 5-19-2005)
      3.   Criteria For Requiring Dedication And A Fee: There will be
situations in subdivisions, planned unit developments, or regional planned unit
developments when a combination of land dedication and a contribution in lieu
of land are both necessary. These occasions will arise when:
         a.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a park or school site. That portion of the land within the
subdivision or development falling within the park or school location shall be
dedicated as a site as aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall
be required for the balance of the subdivider's or developer's obligations
under this section;
         b.   A major part of the local park or recreation site or school site
has already been acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from the
development to complete the site. The remaining portions shall be required by
dedication, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for the
balance of the subdivider's or developer's obligations under this section.
   D.   Density Formula:
      1.   The following table of population density is generally indicative of
current and short range projected trends in family size for a new construction
and shall be used in calculating the amount of required dedication of acres of
land or the cash contribution in lieu of unless a written objection is filed
thereto by the subdivider or developer:
See following page for exhibit A, table of estimated ultimate population per
dwelling unit.
Exhibit A
   TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
   Children Per Unit
Type of Unit    Prescho   Elementa   Junior    TOT   High School
                                        High
Exhibit A
   TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
   Children Per Unit
Type of       Prescho   Elementa   Junior     TOTAL      High School
Unit                                  High
                         Grades K   Grades 6   Grades K   Grades 9-   Adults     Total Per
             0-4 Yea   5-10 Yea   11-13      5-13 Yea   14-17 Yea   18 years   Dwelling
                                      Years                                                    Unit
Detached Single-Family
2 Bedroom     0.113     0.136      0.048      0.184      0.020       1.700      2.017
3 Bedroom     0.292     0.369      0.173      0.542      0.184       1.881      2.899
4 Bedroom     0.418     0.530      0.298      0.828      0.360       2.158      3.764
5 Bedroom     0.283     0.345      0.248      0.593      0.300       2.594      3.770
Attached Single-Family
1 Bedroom     0.000     0.000      0.000      0.000      0.000       1.193      1.193
2 Bedroom     0.064     0.088      0.048      0.136      0.038       1.752      1.990
3 Bedroom     0.212     0.234      0.058      0.292      0.059       1.829      2.392
4 Bedroom     0.323     0.322      0.154      0.476      0.173       2.173      3.145
Apartments
Efficiency    0.000     0.000      0.000      0.000      0.000       1.294      1.294
1 Bedroom     0.000     0.002      0.001      0.003      0.001       1.754      1.758
2 Bedroom     0.047     0.086      0.042      0.128      0.046       1.693      1.914
3 Bedroom     0.052     0.234      0.123      0.357      0.118       2.526      3.053
 
Note:   There are only 3 significant categories provided in this chart. Because
of the similarity of yields of attached single-family dwelling units, only one
category is provided. The same is true with apartments; thus, only one
category. Because of the relatively short history of some newer types of
detached and attached single-family units, individual evaluations may be
necessary.
   Copyright 1996
   Illinois School Consulting Service/
   Associated Municipal Consultants, Inc.
   Naperville, Illinois
(Ord. 98-22, 4-23-1998)
      2.   In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to
the Table of Estimated Ultimate Population listed herein, he shall submit his
own demographic study showing the estimated additional population to be
generated from the subdivision, planned unit development, or regional planned
unit development and in that event final determination of the density formula
to be used in such calculations shall be made by the Village Board based upon
such demographic information submitted by the subdivider or developer and from
other sources which may be submitted to the Village Board by the park
districts, school districts, or others. It is recognized that population
density, age distribution, and local conditions change over the years, and the
specific formula for the dedication of land, or the payment of fees in lieu
thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic review and amendment if
necessary.
   E.   Reservation Of Additional Land: Where the Comprehensive Plan of the
Village calls for a larger amount of park and recreational land or school sites
in a particular proposed subdivision, planned unit development, or regional
planned unit development than the subdivider or developer is required to
dedicate, the land needed beyond the subdivider's or developer's contribution
shall, if so determined by the Village Board, be reserved for subsequent
purchase by the Village or other public body designated by the Village provided
that such acquisition is made within one year from the date of approval of the
final plat or plan.
   F.   Combining With Adjoining Developments: Where the subdivision, planned
unit development, or regional planned unit development is less than forty (40)
acres, public open space or a school site which is to be dedicated should,
where possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining developments in
order to produce usable recreation areas or school sites without hardship on a
particular developer.
   G.   Topography And Grading: The slope, topography and geology of the
dedicated site as well as its surroundings must be suitable for its intended
purposes. Grading on sites dedicated for park and recreational uses shall not
differ greatly from surrounding land. (Ord. 94-72, 10-13-1994)
   H.   Improved Sites: All sites shall be dedicated as improved sites, i.e.,
in a finished graded, seeded and/or sodded condition with appropriate storm
water management and erosion control systems and ready for full service of
streets (including, but not limited to, pavement, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
street trees and streetlights), sewers, water, and electrical and other
utilities, or acceptable provisions made therefor. All required improvements to
sites, including, but not limited to, finished grading, seeding and/or sodding,
storm water management and erosion control systems, streets, sewers, water and
electrical and other utilities shall be completed prior to issuance of any
building permits in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the building permits for
the subdivision, planned unit development or regional planned unit development,
but not later than two (2) years after the initial final plat approval for the
subdivision, planned unit development or regional planned unit development. If
the required improvements for a site are not completed at the time of
dedication due to the delay in time between dedication of any such school or
park sites and construction of school or park facilities thereon, the
subdivider or developer shall provide the school or park district accepting the
site with funds sufficient to complete the required improvements. (Ord. 98-22,
4-23-1998)
   I.   Title To Sites: All sites shall be conveyed to the Village either by
warranty or trustee's deed. The sites shall be conveyed prior to issuance of
any building permits in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the building permits
for the subdivision, but not later than two (2) years after the initial final
plat approval for the development. The subdivider or developer shall be
responsible for conveying good, merchantable title to such sites, and shall be
responsible for payment of all real estate taxes to the date of conveyance,
including any agricultural rollback taxes which might be extended or levied
against such sites for any tax years or periods prior to the time of
conveyance. (Ord. 94-72, 10-13-1994; amd. Ord. 98-22, 4-23-1998)
   J.   Dedicated Land Sold; Trust Established: When, in the opinion of the
unit of local government holding title to any parcel of land dedicated under
this Section, any such parcel has become unnecessary or unsuitable or
inconvenient, such parcel may be sold as provided by applicable statutory
authority and the proceeds shall be held in trust by said unit of local
government, solely for such uses as are provided for in subsection
10-5-12C of this Section, and said proceeds shall be subject to the ten (10)
year expenditure requirements from and after the date when said land is
converted to cash proceeds. (Ord. 94-72, 10-13-1994)
ARTICLE A. CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
SECTION:
10-5A-1: General Provisions
10-5A-2: Sanitary Sewer Construction Standards
10-5A-2-1: Application And Interpretation
10-5A-2-2: Rules And Regulations
10-5A-2-3: Construction Requirements
10-5A-3: Storm Sewer Construction Standards
10-5A-4: Street Lighting Standards
10-5A-5: Street Pavements And Curb And Gutter Construction Standards
10-5A-6: Sidewalk Construction Standards
10-5A-7: Water Distribution System Construction Standards
10-5A-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application And Interpretation: The specifications contained herein
shall be for the construction of the following public facilities within the
village:
 
Sanitary sewer systems              section
                                       10-5A-2
Storm sewer systems                 section
                                       10-5A-3
Street lighting systems             section
                                       10-5A-4
Street pavements, curbs and gutters  section
                                       10-5A-5
Sidewalks                           section
                                       10-5A-6
Water systems                       section
                                       10-5A-7
 
In the event of conflict between the provisions of these standard
specifications and any other provisions of this code, the standard
specifications shall control. (1976 Code §16-141)
   B.   Standard Specifications: Before a subdivision shall be approved, the
village engineer shall certify that the improvements described in the
subdivider's plans and specifications, together with agreements, meet the
minimum requirements of all ordinances of the village and that they comply with
the following: (1976 Code §16-86)
Unless otherwise specified, all construction work shall be in accordance with
the provisions of the current issue of the standard specifications for road and
bridge construction adopted January 2, 1958, by the Illinois department of
transportation, as the same is amended from time to time and hereinafter
referred to as the standard specifications. Unless otherwise specified, design
standards shall be as specified in the current issue of the manual "Highway
Standards" as published by the Illinois department of transportation bureau of
design and environment, as the same is amended from time to time and
hereinafter referred to as highway standards. (1976 Code §16-86; amd. Ord.
2002-23, 5-23-2002)
   C.   Record Drawings; Deviations: Prior to final approval of improvements 1
, the subdivider shall submit one complete set of twenty four inch by thirty
six inch (24" x 36") mylar drawings, and reproducible drawings in the scanned
digital format as TIFF (tag image file format) or equivalent approved by the
village engineer, accurately depicting the location of all improvements
constructed. Additionally, at the discretion of the village engineer, drawings
may be required to be submitted in digital format as .DXF or .DWG (AutoCad)
files. Copies of same shall be submitted to all public bodies accepting sites
for public purposes within the subdivision.
No substantial deviations from the approved plans and specifications will be
allowed without the approval of the village board. Field changes may be allowed
by the village engineer. (Ord. 2002-23, 5-23-2002)
   D.   Inspections; Fee: All public improvements to be made under the
provisions of this chapter shall be inspected during the course of construction
by the village engineer or other competent person appointed by the village
board. The subdivider shall pay to the village, as and for the village's costs
for plan review, inspections and related inspection costs, the sum of one and
one-half percent (11/2%) of the cost of construction of the required public
improvements. (1976 Code §16-100)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-7-2 of this title.
10-5A-2: SANITARY SEWER CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
The standards and requirements found in this section govern the materials and
construction of sanitary sewers within the village. (1976 Code §16-142.10)
10-5A-2-1: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
These specifications cover pipe for sanitary sewers and service connections,
sewer fittings, manholes and all appurtenances normally used for sanitary sewer
collection systems. Special considerations will be covered in the detailed
plans and special provisions covering the proposed construction. Sanitary
sewers shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of the current
issue of the standard specifications for water and sewer main construction in
Illinois, and this code. In case of conflict, the village sanitary sewer
construction standards and other applicable ordinances of the village shall
take precedence and shall govern. (1976 Code §16-142.11; amd. Ord. 2002-23, 5-
23-2002)
10-5A-2-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Additional rules and regulations governing the construction of sanitary sewers
in the village are:
   A.   The restrictions, policies and instructions that may be adopted or
issued from time to time by the village.
   B.   The Illinois pollution control board regulations.
   C.   The environmental protection act 1 .
   D.   The rules and regulations set forth by the DuPage County public works
department. (1976 Code §16-142.12)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
10-5A-2-3: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
All sanitary sewage consisting of domestic and other waterborne wastes shall be
collected and conveyed in a sanitary sewer pipe system to a point of discharge
into an existing sanitary sewer system. No sanitary sewage shall be allowed to
enter any storm sewer system or discharged onto the ground or into receiving
streams without first being treated. (1976 Code §16-142.13)
   A.   Protection Of Water Mains: Water mains shall be protected in accordance
with the applicable Illinois pollution control board regulations and the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
technical policy statements. Wherever the sanitary sewer main, building service
sewer, or any storm drain crosses a water main, a minimum eighteen inches (18")
vertical separation shall be provided between the top of the lower pipe and the
bottom of the upper pipe. If an eighteen inch (18") vertical separation cannot
be maintained, the sanitary or storm sewer shall be constructed of ductile iron
pipe, or shall be totally encased in concrete for a minimum distance of ten
feet (10') on each side of the water main and be pressure tested to ensure
watertightness. (1976 Code §16-142.30)
   B.   Survey Lines And Grades: Survey lines and grade hubs shall be provided
by the engineer at maximum fifty foot (50') intervals and at all changes in
line and grade. All installations in excess of one hundred fifty (150) lineal
feet shall be horizontally and vertically controlled by the use of a laser
target device. (1976 Code §16-142.40)
   C.   Pipe Materials: Pipe material used in sanitary sewer construction,
unless otherwise specified, shall be SDR-26 (polyvinyl chloride) PVC pipe
conforming to ASTM D 3034, type PSM for sizes six inches (6") to fifteen inches
(15") and ASTM F-679-89 for sizes eighteen inches (18") to thirty six inches
(36"), or class 52 cement lined ductile iron pipe conforming to ANSI A 21.51
(AWWA C-151), with poly wrap. Selection of materials shall consider local
conditions such as character of industrial wastes, possibility of septicity,
soil characteristics, exceptionally heavy external loads, abrasion and similar
problems. (Ord. 2002-23, 5-23-2002)
   D.   Installation Of Pipe:
      1.   Depth Of Pipe Cover: All pipe shall be laid to a minimum depth of
five feet (5') measured from the existing or proposed ground surface to the top
of the pipe barrel unless specifically allowed otherwise, in special
circumstances by the village engineer. (1976 Code §16-142.41)
      2.   Pipe Bedding: Granular pipe bedding material or granular cradle
shall be required on all sanitary sewers installed in the village. Granular
pipe bedding shall be a minimum of four inches (4") in earth excavation and a
minimum of six inches (6") in rock excavation before the trench is backfilled
with granular material to six inches (6") over the top of the pipe per
Woodridge standard. The granular material shall conform in gradation to type A,
B or C listed in provisions of the current issue of the standard specifications
for water and sewer main construction in Illinois. (1976 Code §16-142.42; amd.
1991 Code; Ord. 2002-23, 5-23-2002)
      3.   Granular Backfill: All trenches for sanitary sewers falling under
and within two feet (2') of a proposed or existing paved surface shall be
backfilled with select granular material conforming to gradation types A or B
only as listed in provisions of the current issue of the standard
specifications for water and sewer main construction in Illinois. Selected
granular backfill shall be placed in uniform layers not exceeding six inches
(6") (loose measure) and compacted with mechanical equipment to ninety percent
(90%) maximum density in accordance with AASHO T-99. (1976 Code §16-142.43;
amd. Ord. 2002-23, 5-23-2002)
      4.   Handling Of Pipe: Sanitary sewer pipe shall be handled in a manner
that will prevent damage. Damaged or defective material on the job site shall
be rejected and replaced to the satisfaction of the village engineer. Methods
of construction conducive to the damage of sewer pipe shall be corrected when
called to the attention of the contractor. All pipe and fittings shall be
examined by the contractor above grade before placement in the trench. (1976
Code §16-142.50)
      5.   Laying Of Pipe:
         a.   Generally: Sanitary sewer pipe shall be laid true to line and
grade as set forth in provisions of the current issue of the standard
specifications for water and sewer main construction in Illinois. Dirt or other
foreign material shall be prevented from entering the pipe or pipe joint during
handling or laying operations and any pipe or fitting that has been installed
with dirt or foreign material in it shall be removed, cleaned and relaid. At
times when pipe laying is not in progress, the open end of the pipe shall be
closed with a watertight plug or by other means approved by the village
engineer to ensure absolute cleanliness inside the pipe. (1976 Code §16-142.60;
amd. Ord. 2002-23, 5-23-2002)
         b.   On Curves: The curvature of sanitary sewers is not allowed
unless, in the opinion of the village engineer, special circumstances dictate
otherwise. Pipe required to be laid on curved alignment shall be joined in
straight alignment and then deflected, joint by joint. Special care shall be
taken in blocking the pipe and in no case shall the degree of deflection exceed
manufacturer's recommendations for the respective pipe size, material and
barrel length. (1976 Code §16-142.61)
   E.   Sewer Connections: Sanitary sewer services shall be a minimum of six
inches (6") in diameter and connected to the sewer main with a manufactured wye
at a minimum angle of thirty degrees (30°) and a maximum angle of forty five
degrees (45°). Sanitary sewer services shall be extended to the property line
or building at a minimum gradient of one percent (1%). Sanitary sewer service
connections to sewer mains twelve feet (12') or more in depth shall be
constructed with a six inch (6") tee and riser and backfilled with select
granular material or encased in concrete at the option of the village engineer.
On a temporary basis, sanitary services may be terminated with a manufactured
plug, in which case the location shall be staked and an accurate record kept of
the distance from the nearest downstream manhole along the sewer main. Sanitary
sewer service connections to existing sewer mains shall be made with a tapping
machine and saddle tightly secured to the existing sanitary sewer. (1976 Code
§16-142.62)
   F.   Sanitary Sewer Manholes:
      1.   Location: Manholes shall be located at the junction of two (2)
sanitary sewer pipes or at any change in grade, alignment or size of pipe. The
maximum spacing of manholes shall be three hundred feet (300') or as approved
by the village engineer. (1976 Code §16-142.71)
      2.   Construction And Installation Regulations:
         a.   Manholes for sanitary sewers shall have a minimum inside diameter
of forty eight inches (48") and be constructed of precast portland cement
concrete units in accordance with provisions of the current issue of the
standard specifications for water and sewer main construction in Illinois, and
shall follow the village standards. (1976 Code §16-142.70; amd. Ord. 2002-23,
5-23-2002)
         b.   Sanitary manholes shall have poured in place or precast inverts
made to conform accurately to the sewer grades with smooth, well rounded
junctions and transitions satisfactory to the village engineer. If the invert
is to be poured in place, the sanitary sewer pipe shall be extended through the
manhole, the concrete poured and formed, and the pipe then broken or sawed out
through the manhole. It is preferred that the sewer pipe to manhole joint be a
flexible gasket or mechanical seal to ensure a leakproof joint. The complete
manhole shall be rigid, true to dimensions and watertight. (1976 Code §16-
142.72)
         c.   Manholes shall be furnished with a watertight frame and solid
cover conforming to the requirements of gray iron castings ASTM A 48 (the
manufacturer shall be specified on the approved plans) with the words "Sanitary
Sewer" imprinted on the cover in raised letters. Both the manhole frame and
cover shall have machined horizontal and vertical bearing surfaces. Pick holes
shall not create openings in the manhole cover. Manholes located in areas
subject to inundation shall be furnished with waterproof, bolt down frames and
covers conforming to the requirements of gray iron castings ASTM A 48 (the
manufacturer shall be specified on the approved plans). Manhole frames shall be
adjusted to proper grade utilizing reinforced, precast concrete rings; brick or
concrete blocks will not be allowed. Adjusting rings shall be securely sealed
to the cone section or top barrel section of the manhole using resilient,
flexible, nonhardening, preformed bituminous mastic material (Ram-Nek, or
approved equal). This mastic shall be applied in such a manner that no surface
water or ground water inflow can enter the manhole through gaps between the top
barrel section or cone section and the first adjusting ring, between adjusting
rings or between the last adjusting ring and the manhole frame. Up to twelve
inches (12") of adjusting rings may be installed on a given manhole; however,
no more than one 2-inch adjusting ring shall be used. Manhole steps on maximum
sixteen inch (16") centers shall be furnished with each manhole, securely
anchored in place true to vertical alignment, in accordance with the Woodridge
standard. (1976 Code §16-142.73; amd. Ord. 2002-23, 5-23-2002)
         d.   Drop manhole assemblies shall be provided at the junction of
sanitary sewers where the difference in grade exceeds two feet (2'). The entire
drop assembly shall be cast in concrete monolithically with the manhole barrel
section and shall follow Woodridge standard. (1976 Code §16-142.74)
      3.   Inspection Of Manholes: All manholes shall be thoroughly cleaned of
dirt and debris and all visible leakage eliminated before final inspection and
acceptance. (1976 Code §16-142.75)
   G.   Testing And Inspection Of Sanitary Sewers:
      1.   Low Air Pressure Tests:
         a.   Tests Required: All sanitary sewers twenty one inches (21") and
smaller including service lines shall pass a low pressure air test before
acceptance. In addition, the village engineer may, at his discretion, require
an exfiltration test as described in section 307.2 1  prior to final
acceptance. Sanitary sewers twenty four inches (24") and larger shall pass an
exfiltration test described in section 307.2 2  and be subject to a physical
inspection by the village engineer. All sanitary sewers eight inches (8") in
diameter or larger shall be televised. All testing and televising shall be
controlled by and is subject to the acceptance of the village. In addition to
the above, manholes are subject to physical inspection. All testing materials
and documents shall become the property of the village. (1976 Code §16-142.80)
         b.   Procedures And Requirements: The procedure for low pressure air
testing shall follow that set forth in provisions of the current issue of the
standard specifications for water and sewer construction in Illinois. All plugs
including those in sanitary services must be carefully braced to prevent
leakage and blowout. The line being tested shall be deemed acceptable when the
time taken for the one pound pressure drop is not less than that shown in the
enclosed table. (1976 Code §16-142.81)
      2.   Exfiltration Test Procedures And Requirements: The exfiltration test
shall be performed in the absence of ground water in accordance with the
following procedure:
         a.   Plug the upper and lower section of sewer main to be tested.
         b.   Fill the line and all manholes with water to a depth of four feet
(4') above the invert of the midpoint of the section being tested.
         c.   Let the water stand in the section of the sewer main being tested
for a period of twenty four (24) hours to allow for absorption and escape of
trapped air.
         d.   After a period of twenty four (24) hours has elapsed, refill the
section to its original depth.
         e.   After an additional one hour period has elapsed, refill the line
again to its original depth, recording the total amount of water necessary
(measured in gallons) for refill. (1976 Code §16-142.82)
         f.   Flexible thermoplastic pipe (PVC) shall be tested for excess
deflecting by pulling a "go - no go" mandrel through the pipe from manhole to
manhole. The mandrel shall be sized in accordance with section
31-1-11C(4), of the current issue of the standard specifications for water and
sewer main construction in Illinois. (Ord. 2002-23, 5-23-2002)
The amount of exfiltration shall not exceed two hundred (200) gallons per inch
of pipe diameter per mile per day, including all manholes and service lines.
The village engineer shall be the sole judge of the results. (1976 Code §16-
142.82)
      3.   Test Results: If the sanitary sewer installation fails to meet the
test requirements specified, the contractor shall determine the cause or causes
of the defect and shall, at his own expense, repair or replace all materials
and workmanship as may be necessary to comply with the test requirements. (1976
Code §16-142.83)
      4.   Certification: It shall be the responsibility of the pipe
manufacturer to certify that pipe and joint materials furnished are capable of
meeting the low pressure air tests, infiltration test and exfiltration test and
are manufactured in conformance with the ASTM, ANSI, AWWA or AASHO. (1976 Code
§16-142.90)
 
Notes
  1. Section 307.2 of the "Standard Specification for Water and Sewer Main
1 Construction in Illinois", as referred to in section
  10-5A-2-1 of this article.
  2. Section 307.2 of the "Standard Specification for Water and Sewer Main
2 Construction in Illinois", as referred to in section
  10-5A-2-1 of this article.
10-5A-3: STORM SEWER CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
The standards and requirements found in this section are for the materials and
constructing of storm sewer systems within the village. (1976 Code §16-143.10)
   A.   Scope Of Regulations; Specifications: These specifications cover
materials, construction and all appurtenances normally used for the
construction of a storm sewer system. Storm sewer systems shall be installed in
accordance with section 600 of "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction", as amended, and in accordance with the "Standard Specifications
for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois", as amended. (1976 Code §16-
143.11; amd. 1991 Code)
   B.   Pipe Materials: All pipe material used in storm sewer construction,
unless otherwise specified, shall be reinforced concrete pipe conforming to
designation C 76, classes I, II, III, IV or V or SDR-26 (polyvinyl chloride)
PVC pipe conforming to ASTM D 3034, type PSM for sizes six inches (6") to
fifteen inches (15") and ASTM F-679-89 for sizes eighteen inches (18") to
thirty six inches (36"), or class 52 cement lined ductile iron pipe conforming
to ANSI A 21.51 (AWWA C-151). (Ord. 2002-23, 5-23-2002)
   C.   Storm Sewer Manholes:
      1.   Location: Manholes shall be located at the junction of two (2) storm
sewer pipes or at any change in grade, alignment or size of pipe. The maximum
spacing of manholes shall be three hundred feet (300') or as approved by the
village engineer. (1976 Code §16-143.31)
      2.   Construction And Installation Regulations: Manholes for storm sewers
shall have a minimum inside diameter of forty eight inches (48") and be
constructed of precast portland cement concrete units in accordance with
section 612 of the "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction",
as amended. Manholes for storm sewers shall be type A Illinois department of
transportation standard 1527-0 constructed of precast reinforced concrete
sections in accordance with section 512 of the "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction", as amended, and installed in accordance with the
applicable portion of section 600 of the standard specifications. (1976 Code
§16-143.30)
   D.   Catch Basins:
      1.   Location: Catch basins shall be located prior to the introduction of
any surface water into storm sewer systems. Catch basins shall be utilized in
all locations where it is intended to direct surface flow into the storm sewer
system. Under no circumstances will any connections be made to the storm sewer
system prior to routing surface water collected through a catch basin. The
village engineer shall recommend the placement of all catch basins within a
storm sewer system. (1976 Code §16-143.41)
      2.   Construction, Installation: Catch basins utilized for storm sewer
systems shall be type A Illinois department of transportation standard 1514-
9 constructed of precast, reinforced concrete sections in accordance with
section 612 of the "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction",
as amended, and installed in accordance with the applicable portions of section
600 of the standard specifications. (1976 Code §16-143.40)
   E.   Inlets:
      1.   Location: Inlets will be located as necessary to collect surface
water that is to be directed into the storm sewer system. In all cases, inlets
shall be required to be connected to catch basins prior to allowing water
collected by it to be transmitted into the storm sewer system. Inlets may be
connected to inlets prior to their connection to catch basins, but in no case
will more than one inlet be allowed to be connected to another. Maximum amount
of inlets allowed to be connected to said catch basins shall be three (3).
(1976 Code §16-143.51)
      2.   Construction Regulations: Inlets utilized for storm sewer systems
shall be type A Illinois department of transportation standard 1683-
4 constructed of precast, reinforced concrete sections in accordance with
section 612 of the "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction",
as amended, and installed in accordance with the applicable portions of section
600 of the standard specifications. (1976 Code §16-143.50)
   F.   Frames And Grates: Frames and grates utilized for storm sewer systems
shall be of the respective types as specified by the Illinois department of
transportation highway standards book, as amended. All frames and grates shall
be constructed in accordance with section 614 of the "Standard Specifications
for Road and Bridge Construction", as amended. Closed lids to be furnished
shall be imprinted with the words "Storm Sewer" on the cover in raised letters.
All frames shall be adjusted to proper grade utilizing reinforced precast
concrete rings; brick or concrete blocks will not be allowed. Adjusting rings
shall be securely sealed to the manhole catch basin or inlet using resilient,
flexible, nonhardening, preformed bituminous mastic material (RAM-NEK, or
approved equal) or of a material approved by the village engineer. Up to twelve
inches (12") of adjusting rings may be installed on a given structure; however,
no more than one 2-inch adjusting ring shall be used. (1976 Code §16-143.60)
10-5A-4: STREET LIGHTING STANDARDS:
   A.   Design: Street lighting shall be designed in accordance with the
requirements of the "American National Standard Practice For Roadway Lighting",
latest edition.
      1.   Luminaire Mounting Heights:
 
Residential     7 meters 23.0 feet
Industrial      9 meters 29.5 feet
Commercial      9 meters 29.5 feet
Office district 9 meters 29.5 feet
 
      2.   Luminaire Type And Power Output: An equivalent light emitting diode
(LED) luminaire of a type and manufacturer may be selected at the sole
discretion of the village engineer in lieu of the high pressure sodium
luminaire. The light source may not exceed four thousand Kelvin (4000 K) for
new or replacement lighting installations.
 
Zone            Luminaire                  Wattage   Alternative Luminaire Type
Residential     High pressure sodium vapor 100 watts LED
Industrial      High pressure sodium vapor 250 watts LED
Commercial      High pressure sodium vapor 250 watts LED
Office district High pressure sodium vapor 250 watts LED
 
      3.   Luminaire Spacing:
         a.   Residential: 35 LF roadway and less
       200 LF on center
       Staggered spacing
         b.   Industrial:
            (1)   35 LF roadway and less
       200 LF on center
       Staggered spacing
            (2)   Greater than 35 LF roadway width
       200 LF on center
       Opposite spacing
         c.   Commercial:
            (1)   35 LF roadway and less
       200 LF on center
       Staggered spacing
            (2)   Greater than 35 LF roadway width
       200 LF on center
       Opposite spacing
         d.   Office district:
            (1)   35 LF roadway and less
       200 LF on center
       Staggered spacing
            (2)   Greater than 35 LF roadway width
       200 LF on center
       Opposite spacing
      4.   Circuiting: 120/240 volt, single phase, sixty (60) cycle, 3-wire
multiple circuits shall be provided.
   B.   Materials: All materials shall meet the requirements of the appropriate
IES NEMA standard and shall be approved by the Underwriters' Laboratories.
   C.   Standards: Standards shall be concrete, or as otherwise specified by
the village engineer. Along roadways with speeds in excess of thirty (30) miles
per hour breakaway installations may be recommended. Standards shall be
designed to withstand a wind velocity of at least one hundred (100) miles per
hour. Standards shall be equipped as follows:
      1.   A wiring handhold with a heat treated aluminum alloy door above
finished grade and tamperproof screws.
      2.   An aluminum tenon two and three-eighths inches (23/8") OD by six
inches (6") in length.
      3.   A festoon lighting outlet for standards installed in industrial,
commercial and office districts.
      4.   For residential purposes, the standard is AMERON (Centrecon series
M) MEQ-7-512A-T4. For industrial, commercial and office districts, the standard
is AMERON (Centrecon series M) MEQ-9.4-512A-T4.
      5.   Concrete standards are to be butt-base and shall be located a
minimum of three feet (3') behind back of curb. Where curbs do not exist, the
standard shall be located at the direction of the village engineer.
   D.   Alternative Standards: Standards shall be round tapered aluminum with
mast arm. Along roadways with speeds in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour
breakaway installations may be recommended. Standards shall be designed to
withstand a wind velocity of at least one hundred (100) miles per hour.
Standards shall be equipped as follows:
      1.   The standard Valmont Industries or approved equal height for
residential shall be twenty three feet (23') above grade and for industrial,
commercial and office districts shall be thirty feet (30') above grade. The
Davit or approved equal mast arm span shall be eight feet (8') for all
standards.
      2.   The standard shall be dark bronze in color and include base nut
covers.
      3.   A four inch by six inch (4" x 6") nominal aluminum wiring handhole
with reinforcement frame and flush fitting aluminum door attached with steel
core nylon screws.
      4.   The standard shall be located a minimum of three feet (3') behind
back of curb. Where curbs do not exist, the standard shall be located at the
direction of the village engineer.
      5.   Foundations shall be helix or reinforcement concrete to be
determined and specified by the village engineer.
   E.   Luminaries And Mast Arms: Luminaries shall be high pressure sodium
units suitable for use on multiple 120/240 volts circuit containing an internal
constant wattage regulator type ballast. Luminaries shall be provided with mast
arms eight inches (8") in length attached to a slip fitter with heat treated
aluminum alloy castings and stainless steel screws capable of being attached to
a tenon type mount of the size indicated in subsection C of this section. In
addition, all luminaries shall provide type II and type III light distribution
and have an adjustable lamp socket.
      1.   Housing: Housing shall be constructed of one-eighth inch (1/8")
extruded aluminum sides and sheet aluminum top sealed with fasteners and RTV
silicone sealant.
      2.   Lens And Door Frame: Door frame shall be of extruded aluminum. Lens
shall be clear flat tempered herculite glass with gasketing that prevents any
metal to glass contact. Door frame assembly shall enclose the entire bottom of
the luminaire. Door frame assembly shall be retained by quarter turn fasteners
with black penetrate finish. A spring steel drop hinge shall allow for removal
of the entire door frame assembly. An extruded silicone rubber gasket shall
provide seal between door frame assembly and housing. An external auxiliary
vandal shield, one-eighth inch (1/8") thick polycarbonate must be provided.
      3.   Optical System: Optical system shall be composed of two (2) polished
alzak aluminum reflectors which shall allow for filed adjustments to desired
light distribution. Each reflector to be individually adjustable to allow for
combinations of light distribution, type II right beam and type III left beam.
System must be easily repositioned without the use of tools.
      4.   Ballast: All components shall be mounted on an inner vertically
sliding tray with a cover and retained in the closed position by three (3)
quarter turn fasteners. A quick disconnect electrical device must be provided.
Ballast to be high pressure sodium type for one hundred (100) or two hundred
fifty (250) watt lamp.
      5.   Mounting: Each luminaire is to be provided with two (2) mounting
bolts which extend from inside the rear of the unit through the eight inch (8")
extruded arm, also provided.
      6.   Finish: Dark bronze anodized finish, architectural class 1, AA-442,
with the integral anadic color, must be provided.
For residential purposes, the standard is Cooper lighting RCL-10-S-P-W-3D-4-V-
OA1064-MA1017. For industrial, commercial and office districts the standard is
Cooper lighting RCL-25-S-P-W-3D-4-V-OA1064-MA1017.
   F.   Alternative Luminaire: Luminaries shall be light emitting diode (LED)
units suitable for use on multiple 120/240 volts circuit.
      1.   For residential, industrial, commercial and office districts the
luminaire shall be a Cobrahead style GE Evolve LED series or approved equal.
      2.   Finish: Finish shall be black polyester powder painted.
   G.   Conductors: Wires shall be copper, softened annealed ASTM specification
B-3, national electrical code 1  or equal. The wire shall have six hundred
(600) volt insulation THW and shall be rated underwriters type use. The minimum
size of the conductor shall be number 8 AWG copper or equal. The wiring system
shall be a parallel system with a minimum of three (3) insulated conductors.
   H.   Conduit: All underground wiring shall be encased in polyethylene
uniduct or shall be installed in conduit of one inch (1") minimum diameter.
Conduit may be either standard hot dipped galvanized or high density
polyethylene or approved equal.
   I.   Construction Work: All work shall conform to all applicable sections of
the national electrical code 2 . All standards shall be installed in an
excavation, a minimum of ten inches (10") greater in diameter than the pole
butt and six inches (6") greater in depth than the embedded pole length. Six
inches (6") of backfill shall be compacted in the excavation prior to the
placement of the pole. After placing the pole and plumbing, screenings shall be
utilized to backfill the excavation and shall be compacted at no more than nine
inch (9") intervals up to the bottom of the cable entrances. Subsequent to the
installation of the required cable facilities, the remaining portion of the
excavation will be backfilled with screenings and compacted at no more than
nine inch (9") intervals to a point two inches (2") above the final ground
line. The components of the complete assembly shall be erected plumb with the
mast arm projecting perpendicular to the curb. The use of two inch (2") rigid
conduit with bushings will be required under all public sidewalk and street
crossings.
   J.   Electric Service: The subdivider shall arrange with the local electric
power company for electric service and shall bear the expense of any charges by
the power company to furnish the service connection(s). The location of all
service connections and the control equipment shall be shown on the drawings.
   K.   Controls: All control equipment shall be located in accordance with the
requirements of the local electric power company. All control equipment shall
be mounted within a weatherproof cabinet. The control cabinet shall be
constructed of aluminum or steel coated with an approved epoxy paint; have a
hinged, gasketed door with a flush mounted keyed lock and the words "street
lighting controls" cast on the door and shall have a screened vent weatherproof
opening; and shall have an adapter for mounting on a four and one-half inch
(41/2") OD tubular steel post. A concrete foundation with a ground rod shall
support a cast iron base for the post. The cabinet shall contain a main service
breaker, multiple relay, a light panel with circuit breakers, and a terminal
block for outgoing circuit wires. Residential lighting shall be so designed
that the maximum wattage from a given service can be obtained without metering
of the circuit. (A photoelectric control compatible with the multiple relay
shall be mounted on the top of the nearest streetlight pole and connected to
the control cabinet with number 12 copper wire.) (Ord. 2015-11, 3-5-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 1, article E of this code.
2 1. See title 8, chapter 1, article E of this code.
10-5A-5: STREET PAVEMENTS AND CURB AND GUTTER CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
The standards and requirements found in this section are for the materials and
construction of street pavements and curbs and gutters within the village.
   A.   Pavement Design:
      1.   All streets shall be constructed in accordance with the material
installation and testing requirements of the Illinois department of
transportation (IDOT) "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", "Interim Special Provisions (ISP)", and the "Supplement
Specifications" and "Recurring Special Provisions", latest edition including
supplements ("IDOT's specifications").
      2.   Pavement structures shall be based on the following minimum
structural numbers and/or pavement design:
Classification  Structural Number And Pavement Design    
Classification                        Structural Number And Pavement Design    
                                         
Residential local streets            3.35 12" aggregate type B CA-6
                                        3" CI. I bituminous binder course
                                        2" CI. I bituminous surface course
                                         
Residential collector street         4.22 12" aggregate type B CA-6
                                        4" BAM (M.S.1500)
                                        2" CI. I bituminous binder course
                                        2" CI. I bituminous surface course
                                         
Industrial, commercial and arterial  4.82 12" aggregate type B CA-6
street
                                        6" BAM (M.S.1500)
                                        2.5" CI. I bituminous binder course
                                        2" CI. I bituminous surface course
 
      3.   Complete pavement designs for roadways in commercial and industrial
areas shall be provided to the village for review and approval.
      4.   The subgrade soil shall be tested by a professional geotechnical
engineer at the developer's expense and shall have a minimum designated
Illinois bearing ratio (IBR) equal to three (3).
      5.   A soil investigation report shall be provided to the village to
verify the IBR value. Pavement structures with subgrade soil having an IBR
value less than three (3) shall have an increased pavement structure as
necessary to carry the design traffic loading.
   B.   Material Specifications:
      1.   All street construction materials shall be in accordance with IDOT's
specifications.
      2.   Aggregate for subbase course shall be uniformly graded and shall
conform to CA-6, grade 8.
      3.   Bituminous aggregate mixture (BAM), bituminous concrete binder and
bituminous concrete surface course shall conform to IDOT's specifications.
         a.   Bituminous aggregate mixture (M.S.=1500).
         b.   Binder course shall be hot mix asphalt IL-19.0. N50.
         c.   Surface course shall be hot mix asphalt mix "C" N50.
      4.   The tack coat (prime) shall be cut back asphalt, grade RC-70. (Ord.
2008-50, 11-20-2008)
   C.   Installation: Prior to beginning construction, the director of public
works or his designee shall be given forty eight (48) hours' notice of the
intended time of starting work. (Ord. 2008-50, 11-20-2008; amd. Ord. 2010-29,
5-20-2010)
      1.   Dust/Debris Control:
         a.   Traveled roadways shall be kept clean of mud/debris. All dirt and
debris tracked onto existing roads shall be promptly removed in accordance with
this code.
         b.   The developer or contractor shall follow all necessary procedures
to control dust on the project site at all times. Methods shall include, but
are not limited to, stone haul roads and a water application truck.
      2.   Subgrade: The subgrade shall be graded and rolled to provide uniform
density and shall comply with the profile and cross sections contained in the
approved drawings.
         a.   The subgrade shall be proof rolled in the presence of a
professional geotechnical engineer with a fully loaded tri- axle dump truck or
similar equipment prior to the placement of any fill materials or subbase
course. Maximum allowable deflection shall be one-fourth inch (1/4").
         b.   The subgrade shall be prepared in accordance with IDOT's
specifications.
      3.   Subbase Course: The subbase shall be prepared in accordance with
IDOT's specifications.
         a.   The subbase shall be proof rolled in the presence of a
professional material testing service with a fully loaded tri- axle dump truck
or similar equipment prior to the placement of any fill materials or subbase
course. Maximum allowable deflection shall be one-fourth inch (1/4").
         b.   The finished subbase course shall be fine graded in preparation
for paving.
      4.   Prime Coat: Prime coat shall be applied to the base course according
to IDOT's specifications.
      5.   Asphalt Paving: The work shall be in accordance with IDOT's
specifications.
         a.   The surface course shall not be applied until the binder course
has weathered through one (1) winter season.
         b.   All cracks greater than one-fourth inch (1/4") in the binder
course shall be sealed prior to application of the surface course.
         c.   Joints shall be lapped from binder course to surface course.
         d.   Tack (prime) coat shall be applied to the binder course prior to
the construction of the surface course to ensure proper bond. Tack coat shall
be applied at a rate of ten- hundredths (0.10) gallon per square yard.
   D.   Testing And Approval:
      1.   All subgrade and base course shall be proof rolled in the presence
of a professional geotechnical engineer with a fully loaded tri-axle dump truck
or similar equipment prior to placement of upper material layers or curb and
gutter.
      2.   Maximum allowable deflection shall be one-fourth inch (1/4").
      3.   The density of the binder course and the surface course shall be
measured either by nuclear test methods or from cores obtained by a
professional testing service arranged by and at the expense of the developer,
and shall meet the requirements of IDOT's specifications.
      4.   All testing shall be in accordance with IDOT's specifications, and
shall be arranged by and at the expense and responsibility of the developer.
Complete written test reports shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for
approval.
   E.   Concrete Curb, Gutter And Median:
      1.   All curbs shall be barrier type, six inches (6") in height. The
concrete curb, gutter and median shall be constructed in accordance with the
material installation and testing requirements of IDOT's specifications.
      2.   Curbs at driveway aprons shall be cast as depressed curbs where
driveway locations exist or are known, or neatly saw cut (by professional curb
saw cutting equipment) for a depressed curb. (Ord. 2008-50, 11-20-2008)
      3.   The top of all curbs shall be stamped, while the concrete is curing
to prevent damage to the integrity of the concrete, with an "S" at all sanitary
service crossings and shall be stamped with a "W" at all water service
crossings. (Ord. 2017-58, 10-5-2017)
10-5A-6: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
The standards and specifications enumerated in this section for materials and
construction pertain to sidewalk construction within the village. (1976 Code
§16-147.10)
   A.   Concrete Sidewalk: The sidewalk shall be of Portland cement concrete
constructed on a prepared subgrade with various joints as shown in the standard
and subscribed herein. (1976 Code §16-147.20)
      1.   Materials: The materials used to arrive at an acceptable concrete
mixture such as Portland cement, fine and coarse aggregates and water shall
conform with the quality requirements as enumerated in appropriate articles of
section 700, Materials, in the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", adopted October 1979, by the Illinois department of
transportation. (1976 Code §16-147.40)
      2.   Quality Of Mix: Concrete for sidewalks and sidewalk aprons shall be
composed of Portland cement; clean coarse aggregate; clean, sharp sand for fine
aggregate; and only clean potable water shall be used in mixing the concrete.
The Portland cement concrete shall have an air entrainment of five percent (5%)
to seven percent (7%) of the volume, and the mix shall be six (6) bags of
cement.
The concrete mix shall have a compressive strength of not less than three
thousand five hundred (3,500) pounds per square inch after twenty eight (28)
days' curing. The slump shall not be greater than three inches (3").
Air-entraining agents shall have proven compatibility with all local concrete
materials, including cement, and shall be capable of providing in the concrete
the required air contents and an air-void system known to produce durable,
scale-resistant concrete.
Admixtures other than air-entraining agents shall not be used until trial mixes
with job materials have shown them to be compatible at job temperatures. Trial
mixes must also show that desired properties will be imparted to the fresh
concrete without any subsequent loss of strength or durability in the hardened
concrete. (1976 Code §16-147.43)
      3.   Mixing Concrete: Concrete shall be mixed in a batch mixer for not
less than one and one-half (11/2) minutes after all the materials are in the
mixer drum and until there is a uniform distribution of the materials and the
mass is uniform in color and is homogeneous. Small amounts of concrete may be
mixed by hand, subject to approval by the village engineer.
Concrete from a central plant or mixed in transit mixer trucks may be used if
it complies with these specifications. There shall be free access at all times
to the batching and mixing plant for sampling of all materials. Concrete shall
be delivered in watertight containers which will not permit segregation of the
materials. When delivered, the concrete shall be uniform throughout the mass.
All concrete used is subject to the necessary tests as to slump, strength,
etc., at the discretion of the village engineer and all unsuitable materials
used shall be removed and replaced at the contractor's expense. (1976 Code §16-
147.44)
   B.   Sidewalk Thickness: The concrete shall be on one course minimum
thickness of four inches (4") constructed on the prepared subgrade, six inches
(6") where vehicle crossing is permitted on the sidewalk. (1976 Code §16-
147.21)
   C.   Subgrade Preparation: The subgrade shall consist of four inches (4") of
either limestone screening, stone or granular material which shall be tamped or
rolled until thoroughly compacted and shall be constructed true to grade and
cross- section. Until the subgrade and forms are approved by the Village
Engineer, no concrete shall be poured. All topsoil shall be removed for its
full depth and for a width not less than six inches (6") wider on each side
than the width of the sidewalk. Excess cut, to remove topsoil, shall be
replaced with compacted stone. Tree roots exposed by excavation should be cut
off at least three inches (3") outside of the new walk and three inches (3")
below subgrade. Subgrade shall be tamped or rolled until thoroughly compacted
and shall be true to grade and cross-section for the bottom of the sidewalk.
(1976 Code §16-147.31)
   D.   Forms:
      1.   Side forms shall be of lumber of not less than one inch (1") nominal
thickness or of steel of equal rigidity. They shall be four inches (4") or six
inches (6") in depth. They shall be held securely in place by stakes or braces,
with the top edges true to line and grade. The forms for the sidewalks shall be
so set that the slab will have a fall of one-quarter inch (1/4") vertical to
one foot (1') horizontal from the edge farthest from the street toward the edge
nearest the street. Forms for the sidewalk aprons shall be so set that the slab
will have a uniform fall between the sidewalk proper and the curb grade. Forms
shall be oiled before concrete is placed. (1976 Code §16-147.41)
      2.   Forms shall remain undisturbed for a minimum of twelve (12) hours
and until the concrete has attained sufficient strength to sustain its own
weight in addition to any temporary and permanent loads that may be placed upon
it. (1976 Code §16-147.42)
   E.   Placing and Finishing Concrete: Subgrade and forms shall be moistened
just before concrete is placed. Concrete shall be placed in successive batches
for the entire width of the slope, struck off from one-half inches (1/2") to
three-quarter inches (3/4") higher than the finished slope, tamped until all
voids are removed and free mortar appears on the surface, thoroughly spaded
along the edges, struck off to the true grade and finished to a true and even
surface with floats and trowels. Final troweling shall be done with a steel
trowel leaving a smooth, even surface, but excessive working avoided. After the
water sheen has disappeared, the surface shall be given a final broom finish.
In no case shall dry cement and/or sand be applied to dry up the surface. The
broom shall be drawn across the sidewalk at right angles to edges of the walk,
with adjacent strokes slightly overlapping, producing a uniform, slightly
roughened surface with parallel broom marks.
The surface shall be divided by grooves constructed at right angles to the
center line of the sidewalk. These grooves shall extend to one-fourth (1/4) the
depth of the sidewalk, with the width being neither more than one- fourth (1/4)
nor less than one-eighth (1/8). The groove shall be edged with the edging tool
having a one-fourth inch (1/4") radius. The walk shall be grooved at five foot
(5') intervals.
Concrete, when placed in the forms, shall have a temperature of not less than
seventy degrees (70°) Fahrenheit nor more than one hundred degrees (100°)
Fahrenheit. It is desirable that freshly placed concrete shall be maintained at
a temperature of fifty to eighty degrees (50° - 80°) Fahrenheit for a period of
not less than four (4) days after placing. (1976 Code §16-147.50)
   F.   Expansion Joints: Expansion joints of the thickness specified below
shall consist of preformed joint filler. The top of the joint shall be placed
one-fourth inch (1/4") below the surface of the sidewalk.
      1.   One-Half Inch (1/2") Thick Expansion Joints: Expansion joints one-
half inch (1/2") thick shall be placed between the sidewalk and all structures
such as light standards, traffic light standards and traffic poles, which
extend through the sidewalk.
      2.   Three-Fourths Inch (3/4") Thick Expansion Joints: Expansion joints
three-fourths inch (3/4") thick shall be placed at intervals of forty five feet
(45') in the sidewalks or wherever it is practical.
Expansion joints shall be placed at locations where sidewalk abuts existing
building, driveway pavement, curb, sidewalk at grade changes and at locations
where it is deemed necessary by the Village Engineer. (1976 Code §16-147.60)
   G.   Curing: The surface of the newly laid pavement shall be cured in a
manner as called for in section 625 of the "Standard Specifications for Road
and Bridge Construction", adopted October 1979, and satisfactory to the Village
Engineer. The material used for curing shall conform with the material
specifications per article 718.04 of the specifications noted above.
Special attention is hereby called for the protection of fresh concrete against
cold weather which could follow the measures discussed in article 625.06 of
section 625 of the "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction",
adopted October 1979, in the State of Illinois.
A minimum of five (5) days' curing period, two (2) days for high early strength
concrete, is required. All exposed surfaces shall be protected against wash by
rain. (1976 Code §16-147.70)
   H.   Excavations: The excavation shall consist of removing all topsoil to a
width of one foot (1') on either side of the sidewalk, cutting or filling to
within six inches (6") of the top of the sidewalk and compacting all fill to a
minimum of ninety percent (90%) Standard Proctor Density, AASHO, Designation
T9. (1976 Code §16-147.30)
After the concrete has been cured, the spaces along the edges of the sidewalk
shall be backfilled to the required level with approved material. The material
shall then be compacted until firm, and the surface neatly graded to receive
grass cover. (1976 Code §16-147.80)
   I.   Protection of New Sidewalk: Vehicles shall be kept off of concrete for
seven (7) days. (1976 Code §16-147.90)
10-5A-7: WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Scope; Specifications: The standards and requirements found in this
Section are for materials and construction of water mains within the Village.
Specifications references made herein for manufactured materials such as pipe,
hydrants, valves and fittings refer to designations for American Water Works
Association (AWWA) or to the American National Standards Institute (ANSI).
Nothing herein shall constitute or imply an endorsement by the Village of any
one material over another. (1976 Code §16-146.10)
These specifications cover pipe fittings and accessory items normally used for
water distribution systems. Special considerations will be covered in the plans
and special provisions. Water distribution systems shall be constructed in
accordance with "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction
in Illinois", as amended. (1976 Code §16-146.11)
   B.   Fire Flow Requirements: The fire flows listed below are the minimum
allowed in the Village. The building construction, on- site fire protection
systems and the hazard of contents will be used in determining the exact flow
requirements within the minimum range. The required fire flow is to be
calculated using a residual pressure of twenty (20) pounds per square inch.
                                                     GPM
Single-family                                          
detached residential homes                          
                                                      1,000–1,500
Town, row or cluster housing                       1,500–2,000
Apartment-type buildings                           3,000–4,000
Manufacturing                                         3,000–5,000
and storage   
Institutional                                      3,000–4,000
Business and                                          2,500–3,500
office uses   
Commercial, mercantile or regional shopping center  3,000–5,000
 
(1976 Code §16-146.12)
   C.   Pipe Specifications:
      1.   Ductile Cast Iron Pipe: Ductile cast iron pipe shall conform to ANSI
Specification A21.51 or AWWA C151, Class 2 (52) thickness designation. Casting,
marking, testing, etc., shall be provided in accordance with applicable ANSI or
AWWA standards. (1976 Code §16-146.21)
      2.   Lining: Double thickness cement lining shall be included in
accordance with ANSI-4 (AWWA-104). (1976 Code §16-146.22)
      3.   Pipe Fittings: All cast iron fittings shall conform to the latest
ANSI Specifications A21.10 for short body, cast iron fittings twelve inches
(12") and less, and AWWA C110 for fittings fourteen inches (14") and larger.
Lining or other special items shall be specified in special provisions. (1976
Code §16-146.23)
   D.   Installation of Pipe:
      1.   General Requirements: Pipe shall be installed in accordance with the
manufacturer's specifications and instructions for installing the type of pipe
used. (1976 Code §16-146.41)
      2.   Excavation and Backfill: Excavation and backfill for water mains
shall conform to the provisions as required in other sections of the "Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois". (1976 Code
§16-146.42)
      3.   Depth of Pipe Cover: Unless otherwise shown on the plans or
indicated in the special provisions, all pipe shall be laid to a minimum depth
of five feet (5') measured from the existing ground surface or established
grade to the top of the barrel of the pipe. In areas subject to subsequent
excavation or fill, the mains shall be laid to grades shown on the plans. (1976
Code §16-146.43)
      4.   Pipe Foundations: The trench, unless otherwise specified, shall have
a flat bottom conforming to the grade to which the pipe is laid. The pipe shall
be laid on an aggregate base a minimum of four inches (4") thick and such that
the barrel of the pipe will have a bearing to its full length. Earthen dams
constructed to obstruct the passage of ground water shall be placed on one
hundred foot (100') intervals. Bell holes shall be excavated for joints. Any
part of the trench excavated below grade shall be corrected with an approved
material and thoroughly compacted. (1976 Code §16-146.44)
      5.   Dewatering of Trench: Where water is encountered in the trench, it
shall be removed during pipe laying and jointing operations. Provisions shall
be made to prevent floating of the pipe. Trench water shall not be allowed to
enter the pipe at any time. (1976 Code §16-146.45)
      6.   Handling of Pipe:
         a.   All types of pipe shall be handled in such a manner as will
prevent damage to the pipe or coating. Damaged pipe, specials and other
accessories shall be rejected and replaced to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer. The methods of handling shall be corrected to prevent further damage
when called to the attention of the contractor.
         b.   Threaded pipe ends shall be protected by couplings or other means
until laid.
         c.   The pipe ends shall be protected by the contractor for defects
while suspended above grade.
         d.   Dirt or other foreign material shall be prevented from entering
the pipe or pipe joint during handling or laying operations and any pipe or
fitting that has been installed with dirt or foreign material in it shall be
removed, cleaned and relaid. At times when pipe laying is not in progress, the
open ends of the pipe shall be closed by a watertight plug or by other means
approved by the Village Engineer to ensure absolute cleanliness inside the
pipe. (1976 Code §16-146.46)
      7.   Laying of Pipe on Curves:
         a.   Long radius curves, either horizontal or vertical, may be laid
with standard pipe by deflections at the joints. If the pipe is shown curved on
the plans and no special fittings are shown, the contractor can assume that the
curves can be made by deflection of the joints with standard lengths of pipe.
If shorter lengths are required, the plan will indicate maximum lengths that
can be used.
         b.   Where field conditions require deflection of curves not
anticipated by the plans, the Village Engineer will approve the methods to be
used.
         c.   Maximum deflections at pipe joints and laying radius for various
pipe lengths are found in the following standards:
 
Ductile cast iron pipe mechanical joints  AWWA C-600
Ductile iron pipe push-on joints         AWWA C-600
 
         d.   When rubber gasketed pipe is laid on a curve, the pipe shall be
jointed in a straight alignment. Trenches shall be made wider on curves for
this purpose. (1976 Code §16-146.51)
      8.   Joints:
         a.   Joints for Ductile Cast Iron Pipe: Joints for cast iron pipe
shall consist of one of the two (2) following types unless otherwise provided
in the special provisions:
            (1)   Mechanical joints.
            (2)   Push-on rubber gasket joints. (1976 Code §16-146.52)
         b.   Jointing Mechanical Joint Pipe:
            (1)   The outside of the spigot and inside of the bell of
mechanical joint pipe shall be thoroughly cleaned to remove all foreign matter
from the joint. The cast iron gland shall then be slipped on the spigot end of
the pipe with the lip extension of the gland toward the socket or bell end. The
rubber gasket shall be placed on the spigot end with the thick edge toward the
gland. The pipe shall be pushed forward to completely seat the spigot end in
the bell. The gasket shall then be pressed into place within the bell, being
careful to have the gasket evenly located around the entire joint. The cast
iron gland shall then be moved along the pipe into position and bolted.
            (2)   Nuts spaced one hundred eighty degrees (180o) shall be
tightened alternately to AWWA C-600 standards in order to produce an equal
pressure on all parts of the gland. (1976 Code §16-146.53)
         c.   Jointing Rubber Gasket Joint Pipe (AWWA C-111):
            (1)   The inside of the bell shall be thoroughly cleaned to remove
all foreign matter from the joint. The circular rubber gasket shall be inserted
in the gasket seat provided.
            (2)   A thin film of gasket lubricant shall be applied to inside
surface of the gasket. Gasket lubricant shall be a solution of vegetable soap
or other solution supplied by the pipe manufacturer and approved by the Village
Engineer.
            (3)   The spigot end of the pipe shall be cleaned and entered in
the rubber gasket in the bell, using care to keep the joint from contacting the
ground. The joint shall then be completed by forcing the plain end to the seat
of the bell.
            (4)   All pipe shall be furnished with a depth mark to assure that
the spigot end is inserted to the full depth of the joints.
            (5)   Field-cut pipe lengths shall be bevelled to avoid damage to
the gasket and facilitate making the joint. (1976 Code §16-146.54)
         d.   Bell and Spigot Pipe with Lead Joints: This type allowed only
when required by special conditions. Details of such installations shall be
specifically approved by the Village Engineer. (1976 Code §16-146.55)
         e.   Thrust Blocking:
            (1)   Blocking to prevent movement of lines under pressure at
bends, tees, caps, valves and hydrants shall be Portland cement concrete, a
minimum of twelve inches (12") thick, placed between solid ground and the
fittings and shall be anchored in such a manner that pipe and fitting joints
will be accessible for repairs.
            (2)   All bends of eleven and one-quarter degrees (111/4o) or
greater, and all tees and plugs shall be thrust protected to prevent movement
of the lines under pressure. (1976 Code §16-146.56)
   E.   Protection of Water Mains: Wherever pipelines designated to carry
potable water supplies cross or are laid less than ten feet (10') horizontally
from existing or proposed drain or sewer lines, or cross house sewers, storm
drains or sanitary sewers, special precautions shall be taken.
In addition, this subsection covers material specifications and installation
procedures for polyethylene encasements to the underground installations of
gray and ductile cast iron pipe. A corrosive soil test shall be performed at
the discretion of the Village Engineer. (1976 Code §16-146.31)
      1.   Parallel Water Mains and Sewers:
         a.   Should conditions prevail which prevent a lateral separation of
ten feet (10'), the pipeline may be laid closer than ten feet (10') to a storm
or sanitary sewer, provided the main is laid in a separate trench and at such
an elevation that the bottom of the water main is at least eighteen inches
(18") above the top of the sewer.
         b.   If it is impossible to obtain a horizontal separation of at least
ten feet (10') and a vertical separation of at least eighteen inches (18") as
stipulated above, the sewer shall be constructed or reconstructed of mechanical
or slip-on joint ductile iron pipe, or concrete pressure pipes specified
herein, and be pressure tested to assure watertightness. (1976 Code §16-146.32)
      2.   Water Main Crossing Sewers:
         a.   Whenever the pipeline crosses house sewers, storm drains or
sanitary sewers, the pipeline shall be laid at such an elevation that the
bottom of the line is at least eighteen inches (18") above the top of the drain
or sewer. This minimum vertical separation shall be maintained for that portion
of the pipeline located within ten feet (10') horizontally, or any sewer or
drain crossed; said ten feet (10') to be measured from the center line of the
drain or sewer normal to the pipeline center line.
         b.   Under conditions that the minimum vertical separation set forth
in the above paragraph cannot be maintained or it is necessary for the pipeline
to pass under a sewer or drain, the water main shall be centered so that joints
will be equi- distant from the sewer and as remote therefrom as possible.
         c.   Where a pipeline must cross under a sewer, in addition to above,
a vertical separation of eighteen inches (18") between the bottom of the sewer
and the top of the water main shall be maintained. The sewer shall be supported
to prevent its settling as directed by the Village Engineer. (1976 Code §16-
146.33)
      3.   Corrosion Protection:
         a.   Materials: The materials used for the job shall be in accordance
with the Table I as follows:
   TABLE I
   RAW MATERIAL USED TO MANUFACTURE
   POLYETHYLENE FILM
Type, class, grade     In accordance with ASTM
Type, class, grade     In accordance with ASTM
Other                     Standard Specifications
characteristics        D-1248-68
Type                   1
Class                  A natural color or C black
Grade                  E-1
Flow rate (formerly       0.4 maximum
melt index)   
Dielectric strength     Volume resistivity minimum
                          ohm-cm 3 = 1015
Tensile strength       1,200 psi minimum
Elongation             300 percent minimum
Dielectric strength     800 volts per mil thickness
                          minimum
 
(1976 Code §16-146.340)
         b.   Thickness: Polyethylene film shall have a minimum nominal
thickness of 0.008 inch (8 mils). The minus tolerance on thickness shall not
exceed ten percent (10%) of the normal thickness. (1976 Code §16-146.341)
         c.   Tube Size or Sheet Width: Tube or sheet size for each pipe
diameter shall be listed on the following table:
   Minimum Polyethylene Width Inch
Nominal Pipe  Flat Tube Sheet
Diameter Inch
Nominal Pipe  Flat Tube Sheet
Diameter Inch
3             14        28
4             16        32
6             20        40
8             24        48
10            27        54
12            30        60
14            34        68
16            37        74
18            41        82
20            45        90
24            54        108
30            67        134
36            81        162
42            95        190
48            108       216
54            121       242
 
   (1976 Code §16-146.341)
         d.   General Installation Requirements: The polyethylene encasement
shall prevent contact between the pipe and the surrounding backfill and bedding
material, but is not intended to be a completely airtight and watertight
enclosure. Overlaps shall be secured by the use of adhesive tape, plastic
string or any other material capable of holding the polyethylene encasement in
place until backfilling operations are completed. (1976 Code §16-146.350)
         e.   Pipe Wrapping: This standard includes three (3) different methods
for the installation of polyethylene encasement on pipe. Methods A and B are
for use with polyethylene tubes and method C is for use with polyethylene
sheets. (1976 Code §16-146.360)
            (1)   Method A: Cut polyethylene tube to a length approximately two
feet (2') longer than that of the pipe section. Slip the tube around the pipe,
centering it to provide a one foot (1') overlap on each adjacent pipe section,
and bunching it accordion-fashion lengthwise until it clears the pipe ends.
Lower the pipe into the trench and makeup the pipe joint with the preceding
section of pipe. A shallow bell hole must be made at joints to facilitate
installation of the polyethylene tube.
After assembling the pipe joint, make the overlap of the polyethylene tube.
Pull the bunched polyethylene from the preceding length of pipe, slip it over
the end of the new length of pipe, and secure in place. then slip the end of
the polyethylene from the new pipe section over the end of the first wrap until
it overlaps the joint at the end of the preceding length of pipe. Secure the
overlap in place. Take up the slack width to make a snug, but not tight, fit
along the barrel of the pipe, securing the fold at quarter points. Repair any
rips, punctures, or other damage to the polyethylene with adhesive tape or with
a short length of polyethylene tube cut open, wrapped around the pipe and
secured in place. Proceed with installation of the next section of pipe in the
same manner. (1976 Code §16-146.361)
            (2)   Method B: Cut polyethylene tube to a length approximately one
foot (1') shorter than that of the pipe section. Slip the tube around the pipe,
entering it to provide six inches (6") of bare pipe at each end. Make
polyethylene snug, but not tight; secure ends as described elsewhere.
Before making up a joint, slip a three-foot (3') length of polyethylene tube
over the end of the preceding pipe section, bunching it accordion- fashion
lengthwise. After completing the joint, overlap the polyethylene previously
installed on each adjacent section of pipe by at least one foot (1'); make snug
and secure each end as described elsewhere.
Repair any rips, punctures or other damage to the polyethylene. Proceed with
installation of the next section of pipe in the same manner. (1976 Code §16-
146.362)
            (3)   Method C: Cut polyethylene sheet to a length approximately
two feet (2') longer than that of the pipe section. Center the cut length to
provide a one foot (1') overlap on each adjacent pipe section, bunching it
until it clears the pipe ends. Wrap the polyethylene around the pipe so that it
circumventially overlaps the top quadrant of the pipe. Secure the cut edge of
polyethylene sheet at intervals of approximately three feet (3').
Lower the wrapped pipe into the trench and make up the pipe joint with the
preceding section of pipe. A shallow bell hole must be made at joints to
facilitate installation of the polyethylene. After completing the joint, make
the overlap as described above.
Repair any rips, punctures or other damage to the polyethylene. Proceed with
installation of the next section in the same manner. (1976 Code §16-146.363)
            (4)   Pipe-Shaped Appurtenances Wrapping: Cover bends, reducers,
offsets and other pipe-shaped appurtenances with polyethylene in the same
manner as the pipe. (1976 Code §16-146.364)
            (5)   Odd-Shaped Appurtenances Wrapping: When valves, tees, crosses
and other odd-shaped pieces cannot be wrapped practically in passing the sheet
under the appurtenance and bringing it up around the body, make seams by
bringing the edges together, folding over twice and taping down. Handle width
and overlaps at joints as described above. Tape polyethylene securely in place
at valve stem and other penetrations. (1976 Code §16-46.365)
            (6)   Openings in Encasements: Provide openings for branches,
service taps, blow-offs, air valves and similar appurtenances by making an X-
shaped cut in the polyethylene and temporarily folding back the film. After the
appurtenance is installed, tape the slack securely to the polyethylene with
tape. (1976 Code §16-146.366)
            (7)   Junction Between Wrapped and Unwrapped Pipe: Where
polyethylene wrapped pipe joins an adjacent pipe that is not wrapped, extend
the polyethylene wrap to cover the adjacent pipe for a distance of at least two
feet (2'). Secure the end with circumferential turns of tape. (1976 Code §16-
146.367)
            (8)   Backfill for Polyethylene Wrapped Pipe: Use the same backfill
material as that specified for pipe without polyethylene wrapping, exercising
care to prevent damage to the polyethylene wrapping when placing backfill.
Backfill material shall be free from cinders, refuse, boulder, rocks, stones or
other material that could damage polyethylene. In general, backfilling practice
should be in accordance with AWWA Standard C600-64, or the latest revision
thereof. (1976 Code §16-146.368)
   F.   Pressure Testing, Flushing and Chlorinating Water Mains:
      1.   Pressure Testing:
         a.   Hydrostatic Test: After the pipe has been laid and partly
backfilled as specified below, all newly laid pipe and any valved sections of
it shall, unless otherwise expressly specified, be subject to a hydrostatic
pressure of one hundred fifty (150) pounds per square inch. Duration of each
pressure test shall be for a period of not less than two (2) hours for pipes
with uncovered joints and not less than twenty four (24) hours for pipes which
have been backfilled before tests are made. (1976 Code §16-146.61)
         b.   Procedure for Test: Each valved section of pipe shall be slowly
filled with water and the specified test pressure shall be applied by means of
a pump connected to the pipe in a satisfactory manner. The pump pipe connection
and all necessary apparatus including gauges and meters shall be furnished by
the contractor. Before applying the specified test pressure, all air shall be
expelled from the pipe. To accomplish this, taps shall be made, if necessary,
at points of highest elevation and afterwards tightly plugged. All exposed
pipes, fittings, valves, hydrants and joints shall be carefully examined during
the open trench test. All joints showing visible leaks shall be repaired until
tight. Any cracked or defective pipes, fittings, valves or hydrants discovered
as a consequence of this pressure test shall be removed and replaced by the
contractor with sound material and the test shall be repeated until
satisfactory to the Village Engineer. (1976 Code §16-146.62)
         c.   Permissible Leakage:
            (1)   Suitable means shall be provided by the contractor for
determining the quantity of water lost to leakage under the specified test
pressure.
            (2)   Allowable leakage shall conform to AWWA C-600-77 section 4.
            (3)   "Leakage" is defined as the quantity of water to be supplied
in the newly laid pipe or any valved section of it necessary to maintain the
specified leakage test pressure after the pipe has been filled with water and
air expelled. (1976 Code §16-146.63)
      2.   Flushing:
         a.   Section of pipe to be disinfected shall first be flushed to
remove any solids or contaminated material that may have become lodged in the
pipe. A hydrant shall be installed at the end of the main. One two and one-half
inch (21/2") hydrant opening will, under normal pressure, provide this velocity
in pipe sizes up to and including twelve inches (12").
         b.   All taps required by the contractor for chlorination or flushing
purposes, or for temporary or permanent release of air, shall be provided by
him as a part of the construction of water mains. (1976 Code §16-146.64)
      3.   Chlorination:
         a.   Chlorine Requirement: Before being placed into service, all new
mains and repaired portions of, or extensions to, existing mains shall be
chlorinated so that a chlorine residual of not less than fifty (50) part per
million (1,000,000) remains in the water after standing twenty four (24) hours
in the pipe. (1976 Code §16-146.65)
         b.   Form of Applied Chlorine: Chlorine shall be applied by one of the
methods which follow subject to approval by the Village Engineer:
            (1)   Liquid Chlorine: A chlorine gas-water mixture shall be
applied by means of a solution feed chlorinating device or the dry gas may be
fed directly through proper devices for regulating the rate of flow and
providing effective diffusion of the gas into the water within the pipe being
treated. Chlorinating devices for feeding solutions of the chlorine gas or the
gas itself must provide means for preventing the backflow of water into the
chlorine.
            (2)   Chlorine-Bearing Compounds in Water: In certain instances,
when the usage of chlorine gas is not practical, such as in congested or
confined areas, upon approval of the Village Engineer, a chlorine-bearing
compound of known chlorine content, prepared in solution form, may be
substituted for chlorine gas. (1976 Code §16-146.66)
         c.   Point and Rate of Application:
            (1)   Point of Application: The preferred point of application of
the chlorinating agent is at the beginning of the pipeline extension or any
valved section of it, and through a corporation stop inserted in the pipe. The
water injector for delivering the chlorine-bearing water into the pipe should
be supplied from a tap made on the pressure side of the gate valve controlling
the flow into the pipeline extension. Alternate points of application may be
used when approved or directed by the Village Engineer.
            (2)   Rate of Application: Water from the existing distribution
system or other approved source of supply shall be controlled to flow very
slowly into the newly laid pipeline during application of the chlorine. The
rate of chlorine mixture flow shall be in such proportion to the rate of water
entering the newly laid pipe that the dosage applied to the water will be at
least fifty (50) parts per million unless otherwise directed by the Village
Engineer.
            (3)   Retention Period: Treated water shall be retained in the pipe
at least twenty four (24) hours. After this period, the chlorine residual at
pipe extremities and at other representative points shall be at least fifty
(50) parts per million.
            (4)   Chlorinating Valves and Hydrants: In the process of
chlorinating newly laid pipe, all valves or other appurtenances shall be
operated while the pipeline is filled with the chlorinating agent and under
normal operating pressure.
            (5)   Preventing Reverse Flow: Valves shall be manipulated so that
the strong chlorine solution in the line being treated will not flow back into
the line supplying the water. Check valves may be used if desired. (1976 Code
§16-146.67)
      4.   Final Flushing and Testing:
         a.   Following chlorination, all treated water shall be thoroughly
flushed from the newly laid pipe at its extremity until the replacement water
throughout its length shows, upon test, the absence of chlorine. In the event
chlorine is normally used in the source of supply, then the tests shall show a
residual not in excess of that carried in the system.
         b.   After flushing, water samples collected on two (2) successive
days from the treated piping system, as directed by the Village Engineer, shall
show satisfactory bacteriological results. Bacteriological analysis must be
performed by a laboratory approved by the Director of the Illinois Department
of Public Health and the Village Engineer.
         c.   Should the initial treatment result in an unsatisfactory
bacterial test, the original chlorination procedure shall be repeated by the
contractor until satisfactory results are obtained. (1976 Code §16-146.68)
   G.   Valves for Water Mains:
      1.   General Requirements:
         a.   The valves shall be suitable for ordinary waterworks service
intended to be installed in a normal position on buried pipelines for water
distribution systems.
         b.   The minimum requirements for all valves shall, in design,
material and workmanship, conform to the standards of the latest AWWA C-500 and
C-504. All materials used in the manufacture of waterworks valves shall conform
to the AWWA standards designed for each material listed. (1976 Code §16-146.71)
      2.   Materials:
         a.   Manufacture and Marking: The valves shall be standard pattern and
shall have the name or mark of the manufacturer, size and working pressure
plainly cast in raised letters on the valve body. Gate valves shall be Clow RW
2832 or equal.
         b.   Type and Mounting:
            (1)   The valve bodies shall be cast iron, mounted with approved
noncorrosive metals. All wearing surfaces shall be bronze or other approved
noncorrosive materials and there shall be no moving bearing or contact surfaces
or iron in contact with iron. Contact surfaces shall be machined and finished
in the best workmanlike manner, and all wearing surfaces shall be easily
renewable.
            (2)   All gate valves shall be two-faced, nonrising stem, double
disc, with parallel seats of bronze or other approved wedging devices placed
between them. The stem shall be of high tensile strength bronze or other
approved noncorrosive metal. All nonferrous bushings shall be of substantial
thickness, tightly fitted and pressed in to machine seats. All valves shall
open by turning to the left counterclockwise. All gate valves shall meet the
standards of AWWA C-500.
            (3)   Butterfly valves may be used only with the specific approval
of the Village Engineer. Butterfly valves shall meet the standards of AWWA C-
504.
         c.   End Connections: End connections of gate valves shall consist of
one of the following types:
            (1)   Mechanical joints.
            (2)   Push-on (rubber gasket) joints.
            (3)   Bell end joints, lead only, where required for specific
conditions.
            (4)   Flange joints.
            (5)   Screwed or threaded joints. (1976 Code §16-146.72)
      3.   Valves Sixteen Inches (16") and Larger: The sixteen inch (16") and
larger valves shall be butterfly valves constructed in accordance with AWWA C-
504, Class 150B. (1976 Code §16-146.73)
      4.   Gate Valves Sixteen Inches (16") and Larger:
         a.   Gate valves sixteen inches (16") and larger may be used upon
specific approval by the Village Engineer; installed in a horizontal pipeline
shall be of the double disc type and shall be equipped with solid bronze (Grade
I or IV) or hard-babbitt tracks securely fastened in body and bonnet. The
weight of the gates shall be carried on rollers throughout their entire length
of travel. Babbitt metal for tracks shall conform to ASTM B-23, Grade 3. For
double-disc valves of the rolling-disc type, the discs shall be carried on
solid bronze (Grade I, II, III, or IV) rollers securely attached to them. All
valves shall be equipped with bronze scrapers to traverse the tracks ahead of
the rollers.
         b.   Valves sixteen inches (16") and larger installed in vertical or
inclined lines shall be equipped with hard-babbitt tracks secured to the valve
body and bonnet to support the lower disc during operation and equipped with
slides to assist the travel of the gate assembly.
         c.   They shall be nonrising stem type and shall be equipped with
approved rugged gate position indicators. The valves shall be provided with
handwheels of ample proportion.
         d.   All gears on gate valves shall be cut tooth steel gears housed in
heavy cast iron grease cases of approved design.
         e.   When manually-operated gate valves sixteen inches (16") and
larger are required, they shall be equipped with a bypass and a bypass valve.
Bypass valve shall be of the same type as the main valve, shall be equipped
with handwheel and shall have the stem in a vertical position unless otherwise
indicated. Sizes shall be as follows:
 
Valve Diameter Inches Bypass Diameter Inches
16 to 20              3
24 and 30             4
36 and 42             6
48 and larger         8
 
         f.   All gate valves sixteen inches (16") and larger shall be geared
with gearing designed for handwheel operation. Gear ratios shall not be less
than the following:
Valve Diameter Gear Ratio
Inches
Valve Diameter Gear Ratio
Inches
16             2:1
20             2:1
24             2:1
30             3:1
36             3:1
42             4:1
48             4:1
 
(1976 Code §16-146.74)
      5.   Gate Valve Stem Seals: Unless otherwise designated in the special
provisions, all gate valves up to and including twelve inches (12") in size,
shall be furnished with O-ring stem seals. Number, size and design shall
conform to the AWWA standard for gate valve O-ring stem seals. Valves larger
than twelve inches (12") shall be equipped with packing glands. (1976 Code §16-
146.75)
      6.   Wrench Nuts: Wrench nuts shall be made of cast iron and shall be one
and fifteen-sixteenths inches (115/16") square at the top, two inches (2")
square at the base, one and three- fourths inches (13/4") high, unless
otherwise designated in the special provisions. Nuts shall have a flanged base
upon which shall be cast an arrow at least two inches (2") long showing the
direction of the opening. The word "Open" in one-half inch (1/2") or larger
letters shall be cast on the nut to clearly indicate the direction of opening
the valve. (1976 Code §16-146.76)
      7.   Tapping Valves: Tapping valves shall be furnished with flange inlet
and connections having a machined recess on the outlet flanges of the tapping
sleeves and crosses. The outlet ends shall conform in dimensions to the AWWA
standards for hub or mechanical joint connections, except that the outside of
the hub shall have a large flange for attaching a drilling machine. The seat
opening of the valves shall be larger than normal size to permit full diameter
cuts.
Tapping sleeve or cross shall be of the same manufacture as the tapping valve.
(1976 Code §16-146.77)
      8.   Testing and Painting at Factory:
         a.   Each gate valve shall be tested at the factory for performance
and operation prior to painting and shall be subjected to the following
hydrostatic pressure tests: Each three inch (3") to twelve inch (12") valve,
inclusive, shall be subjected to hydrostatic pressure test under pressure of
both three hundred (300) pounds per square inch and one hundred seventy five
(175) pounds per square inch and each sixteen inch (16") to forty eight inch
(48") valve, inclusive, shall be subjected to test pressures of three hundred
(300) pounds per square inch and one hundred fifty (150) pounds per square
inch. These tests shall be conducted in accordance with provisions of AWWA C-
500. Tests for special valves shall be made as provided in the special
provisions.
         b.   After the factory test and inspection, all ferrous parts of the
valves except finished or bearing surfaces shall be painted inside and out with
two (2) coats of asphalt varnish. (1976 Code §16-146.78)
      9.   Installation of Gate Valves:
         a.   All gate valves shall be inspected upon delivery in the field to
ensure proper working order before installation. They shall be set and jointed
to the pipe in the manner as set forth in the AWWA standards for the type of
connection ends furnished.
         b.   Valves twelve inches (12") and under shall be installed in a
vertical position and be provided with a standard valve vault.
         c.   After installation, all valves shall be subjected to the field
test for piping as outlined in section 41 of the "Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois". Should any defects in materials
or workmanship appear during these tests, the contractor shall correct such
defects with the least possible delay and to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer. (1976 Code §16-146.79)
      10.   Valve Vaults, Boxes and Water Services:
         a.   Application of Provisions: This paragraph G10 shall apply to the
construction of standard valve vaults, special valve vaults, cast iron valve
boxes, curb boxes and meter boxes, all in accordance with Village standards.
         b.   Valve Vaults Required: Valve vaults are required with six inch
(6") valves or larger. (1976 Code §16-146.80)
         c.   Materials:
            (1)   Ring and Cover Valve Box Castings: Castings for cast iron
ring and cover and for cast iron parts of valve boxes shall conform to the
requirements of "Standard Specifications for Gray Iron Castings", ASTM
Designation A-48.
            (2)   Materials for Valve Vaults: Portland cement, masonry units,
mortar and other materials necessary for the construction of valve vaults and
boxes shall meet the requirements of the "Standard Specifications for Water and
Sewer Main Construction in Illinois". (1976 Code §16-146.81)
         d.   Construction Details:
            (1)   Valve vaults shall be Type "A", Illinois Department of
Transportation Standard 1526-7 constructed of precast reinforced concrete
sections in accordance with section 612 of the "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction", adopted October 1979, as amended.
            (2)   Cast Iron Valve Boxes for Gate Valves:
               (a) Cast iron valve boxes as per the Woodridge standard, are
placed for enclosing gate valves of small size in lieu of valve vaults.
               (b) Adjustable cast iron valve boxes shall be set to position
during backfilling operations so they will be in a vertical alignment to the
gate valve operating stem. The lower casting of the unit shall be installed
first in such a manner as to be cushioned and to not rest directly upon the
body of the gate valve or upon the water main. The upper casting of the unit
shall then be placed in proper alignment into such an elevation that its top
will be a final grade. Backfilling around both units shall be placed and
compacted to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer. (1976 Code §16-146.82)
   H.   Water Service Connections:
      1.   The minimum size of water service connections in the Village shall
be one inch (1"). Water service connections smaller than four inches (4") in
diameter shall be Type "K" copper pipe. Water connections four inches (4") in
diameter or larger shall be ductile iron pipe water main and shall comply with
all specifications for water mains. Water service connections accomplished with
copper pipe shall be one piece, continuous conduits, with no intermediate
couplings between the roundway ground key stop and the water meter connection
located within the interior of the structure. Connections between copper pipe
and corporation stops, roundway ground key stops, etc., shall be made with
flared joints or compression couplings. The corporation stop shall be Mueller
Company H-15000 Ori-seal or approved equal and shall be installed by tapping
machine. The tap shall be made in the upper one-third (1/3) of the main as
close to a forty five degree (45o) angle with the horizontal axis as is
practical. A tap into the top of the main will not be permitted. All taps shall
have a minimum of ten foot (10') separation. The roundway ground key stop shall
be Mueller Company H-15154 Mark II Ori-seal or approved equal having a
Minneapolis pattern thread. The buffalo box shall be Mueller Company H-10302 or
approved equal, five and one-half feet (51/2') in length, having an inside
diameter in the upper section of not less than one and one-half inches (11/2").
Whenever it shall occur that the buffalo box is placed at grade within a hard
surface, a Mueller Company H-10342 or approved equal curb box sleeve shall be
used. The contractor shall record the location of each buffalo box in relation
to the nearest corner lot line. Two (2) copies of this record shall be filed
with the Village prior to final inspection.
      2.   When a water service is installed beneath existing roadways,
sidewalks and/or driveways, the pipe shall be installed by pushing or augering
a hole beneath the said roadway, sidewalk and/or driveway and installing the
service pipe through the hole. The size of any opening in the roadway to
connect the water service to the main shall be kept to a minimum and the
roadway replaced in accordance with the Village standards.
Installation of a water service in the same trench as the sanitary sewer will
not be allowed. A ten foot (10') horizontal separation between a sanitary sewer
and water service shall be maintained. When a ten foot (10') horizontal
separation cannot be maintained, the water and sewer services may be placed
within the same trench; providing that, the water service is placed on a shelf
of unexcavated dirt at least eighteen inches (18") above the top of the sewer
service and a three foot (3') minimum horizontal separation between the water
and sewer service is maintained. Any water service that crosses over any sewer
or drain tile must also maintain an eighteen inch (18") vertical separation for
a distance of ten feet (10') on both sides of the sewer. Backfill between the
sewer pipe and water service shall be with compacted granular material for the
full width of trench and for a minimum distance of four feet (4') on both sides
of the sewer. If it is not possible to install a water service over the sewer
or drain tile, the water shall be placed in a steel casing extending ten feet
(10') on either side of the sewer. Backfill shall be with compacted granular
material to one foot (1') over the sewer or drain tile for the full width of
the trench and for a minimum distance of three feet (3') on either side of the
sewer. (1976 Code §16-146.83)
      3.   Connections to existing water mains shall be accomplished without
interruption of service. Tap-in gate valves will be provided at the point of
connection to the existing system. (1976 Code §16-146.57)
      4.   All pipe fittings, valves, etc., shall be so connected that
electrical current flow will not be reduced. (1976 Code §16-146.58)
   I.   Water Meters:
      1.   Location; Installation: All water services shall be metered as close
to the point where the service enters the building as possible. All meters one
inch (1") and smaller shall be installed by the department of public works.
Meters larger than one inch (1") shall be provided by the village and purchased
by the owner. Water service shall be installed in such a manner that all meters
shall be centered eighteen inches (18") above the flow and spaced from the
outside wall as follows: (1976 Code §16-146.84; amd. 1991 Code; Ord. 2011-21,
5-12-2011)
         a.   Five-eighths inch by three-fourths inch (5/8" x 3/4") meter span
shall be eight inches (8") from outside wall.
         b.   One inch (1") meter span shall be ten inches (10") from outside
wall.
         c.   One and one-half inch (11/2") meter span shall be twelve inches
(12") from outside wall.
         d.   Two inches (2") and larger meter spans shall be not less than
fifteen inches (15") from outside wall.
The variable length of the meter spread shall be verified when the meter is
ordered. The village requires ball valves on each side of the meter and are
supplied by the village. Valves shall be installed on both sides of the meter
spread. In the case of a bypass system utilized around a meter installation, a
valve shall be installed in the bypass line and a positive locking system
provided by the village with a lock. (1976 Code §16-146.84)
      2.   Remote Meters: A remote reading system shall be installed on all
residential buildings serviced with village water. The contractor/developer
shall cause to be installed from the point of metering to and through an
exterior wall, a smooth bore cable raceway to accommodate a remote reader unit
cable. The raceway shall be not less than one-half inch (1/2") inside diameter
and not longer than forty feet (40') without the installation of an accessible
junction (pull) box. (1976 Code §16-146.85)
   J.   Fire Hydrants:
      1.   Description: These specifications are to be used in conjunction with
the AWWA standard C-502 for fire hydrants for ordinary waterworks service.
(1976 Code §16-146.91)
      2.   Materials:
         a.   All materials used in the production of fire hydrants for
ordinary service shall conform to the specifications designated for each
material listed in AWWA standard C-502. (1976 Code §16-146.92)
         b.   The hydrant shall be either a waterous pacer WB67 or a Kennedy
guardian or an approved equal and a pattern approved by the village engineer.
The name or mark of the manufacture size of the valve opening shall be plainly
cast in raised letters and so placed on the hydrant barrel as to be visible
after the hydrant has been installed. (Ord. 2002-23, 5-23-2002)
         c.   As a minimum requirement, all hydrants shall be designed for a
working pressure of one hundred fifty (150) pounds per square inch and in
workmanship, design and material shall conform to the AWWA standard C-502. The
hydrant bodies shall be cast iron, fully mounted with approved noncorrodible
metals. All wearing surfaces shall be either bronze or some other approved
noncorrodible material, and there shall be no moving bearing or contact
surfaces of iron in contact with iron or steel. All contact surfaces shall be
finished or machined in the best workmanlike manner and all wearing surfaces
shall be easily renewable.
         d.   The design of the hydrant shall be such that all working parts
may be removed through the top of the hydrant and shall have the required AWWA
specified number of turns on the stem to open the gate an area equal to the
area of the valve opening. Any change in area of the water passage through the
valve must have an easy curve, and all outlets must have round corners of good
radius.
         e.   Lugs, if required for harnessing the hydrant to the connecting
pipe from the main in the street, shall be provided on the bell of the elbow or
on the hydrant bottom casing. A drawing of the lug construction shall be
submitted for approval, on request of the village engineer.
         f.   Hydrants shall be provided with a sidewalk flange. Breaking
devices shall be at the sidewalk flange which will allow the hydrant barrel to
separate at this point with a minimum breakage of hydrant parts in case of
damage. There shall also be provided at this point a safety stem coupling on
the operating stem that will shear at the time of impact. Unless otherwise
specified, all hydrants shall be equipped with O-ring stem seals. (1976 Code
§16-146.92)
      3.   Hydrant Details:
         a.   The dimensions and details of hydrant and nozzles, unless
otherwise noted, shall be as follows:
         HYDRANT SIX INCH CONNECTION
Hydrant connection pipe inside diameter  6 inches
Standpipe, minimum inside diameter       7 inches
Length of hydrant from bottom of hydrant As required
Connection to sidewalk ring              By village engineer
Valve opening                            5 1/2 inches
Size of auxiliary gate valve             6 inches
Hose nozzles number and size             #2, 21/2 inch
                                         and #1, 41/2 inch
Thread pattern                           National standard
 
         b.   All nozzles shall be fitted with cast iron threaded caps with
operating nut of the same design and proportions as the hydrant stem nut. Caps
shall be threaded to fit the corresponding nozzles and shall be fitted with
suitable gaskets for positive watertightness under test pressures.
         c.   The operating nuts on hydrant stem and nozzle caps shall be the
same for all sizes of hydrants. Dimensions shall be as follows:
 
Pattern of nut      Tampered
                       pentagonal
Height              1 1/16 inch
                       1.23 inch at top
Size of pentagon     of nut (measured
                       from point of flat)
 
         d.   The hydrant valve shall open by turning to the left
(counterclockwise). (1976 Code §16-146.93)
      4.   Factory Hydrostatic Test: Before the hydrant is painted at the
factory, it shall be subjected to an internal hydrostatic test of three hundred
(300) pounds per square inch with the hydrant valve in a closed position and
again with the hydrant valve in an open position. (1976 Code §16-146.94)
      5.   Painting: All iron parts of the hydrant both inside and outside
shall be thoroughly cleaned and thereafter painted with one coat of paint of a
durable composition. (1976 Code §16-146.95)
      6.   Installation Details: Hydrant shall be plumb and shall be set so
that the lowest hose connections are at least eighteen inches (18") above the
surrounding finished grade. All hydrants shall be inspected in the field upon
delivery to the job to ensure proper operation before installation. A minimum
of one-fourth (1/4) cubic yard of coarse stone, with gravel or like porous
material, shall be placed at and around the base of the hydrant to ensure
proper drainage of the hydrant after use. The blocking of the hydrant shall
consist of a wedge of portland cement concrete of not less than one-quarter (1/
4) cubic yard extending from the hydrant to undisturbed soil and shall be so
placed to form a barrier adjacent to the hydrant base to counteract the
pressure of water exerted thereon. Care shall be taken to ensure that weep
holes are not covered by concrete. The hydrant shall be set on a concrete block
to ensure a firm bearing for the hydrant base. The hydrant valve and tee shall
be interconnected by steel rods if required by special provision. The resetting
of existing hydrants and moving and reconnection of existing hydrants shall be
handled in a manner similar to a new installation, if required by special
provision. A hydrant and valve box stabilizer, known as a hydrant and valve box
grip shall be installed prior to backfilling the hydrant. (1976 Code §16-
146.96; amd. Ord. 2002-23, 5-23-2002)
      7.   Location: Where public water supplies may be extended, fire hydrants
shall be installed along public streets at a maximum distance of four hundred
feet (400'). No portion of a building shall be more than three hundred feet
(300') from a public fire hydrant. Where multi-family or commercial-industrial
structures exist, no portion of the building shall be more than two hundred
fifty feet (250') from a public hydrant. No hydrant shall be closer than twenty
five feet (25') to a building. (1976 Code §16-146.97)
CHAPTER 6
(RESERVED)
CHAPTER 7
SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-7-1: Enforcing Officer
10-7-2: Fees
10-7-3: Building And Occupancy Permits
10-7-4: Variances
10-7-5: Violations
10-7-1: ENFORCING OFFICER:
The director of public works or his designee shall be the enforcing officer of
this title, and it shall be his duty to enforce the provisions hereof. (1976
Code §16-111; amd. 1991 Code; amd. Ord. 2010-29, 5-20-2010)
10-7-2: FEES:
All fees must be paid in accordance with subsection 3-1A-3D of this code. (Ord.
2013-53, 10-24-2013)
10-7-3: BUILDING AND OCCUPANCY PERMITS:
   A.   Approval Prerequisite To Building Permits: No building permit shall be
issued providing for the improvement of any lot in a subdivision until the plat
of subdivision and the plans and specifications for the public improvements
have been approved by the village board. (1976 Code §16-113)
   B.   Prerequisites To Occupancy Permit: No certificate of occupancy permit
shall be granted by any governing official for the use of any structure within
any subdivision approved for platting or replatting until required utility
facilities have been installed and made ready to service the property and
access to the subject lot or lots has been constructed. (1976 Code §16-114)
10-7-4: VARIANCES:
When the subdivider can show that a provision of these regulations, if strictly
adhered to, would cause unnecessary hardship because of unique site conditions
or when a planned development project is proposed under the related planned
development procedure set forth in the zoning title 1  and conforms with the
intent of all comprehensive plan elements, the plan commission may recommend
variations to the village board. The subdivider shall apply in writing for such
variations. Any variation thus authorized by the village board shall be
attached to and made a part of the final plat. (1976 Code §16-115; amd. 1991
Code)
In any instance where the village has granted approval of a preliminary plat of
subdivision prior to the effective date of ordinance 68-1, from which this
title is derived, and where the subdivision design or subdivision improvements
as shown on said preliminary plat are less restrictive than the requirements of
this title, the subdivider may apply in writing to the village board for
permission to proceed with the subdivision as originally planned. The village
board, upon review of the preliminary plat as originally submitted, may then
grant such permission.
The subdivider shall pay the cost of recording and preparing a transcript of
the proceedings of any and all public hearings held by the village or any of
its boards, commissions, departments or governmental bodies to consider said
subdivider's proposed development or any part thereof. (1976 Code §16-115)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 14 of this code.
10-7-5: VIOLATIONS:
All persons violating any of the provisions of this title shall be subject to
the penalty provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code §16-117; amd. 1991 Code)
