TOWN CODE
of
ALTA, UTAH
2010
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-O-9, passed 11-13-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Town of Alta, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 2024-O-9, passed November 13, 2024. Ordinances of the
Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2010-O-6
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE ALTA, UTAH TOWN CODE
   WHEREAS, the town council of the town of Alta wishes to compile, organize,
and codify the ordinances of the town of Alta and finds this reorganization to
be in the town's benefit for more clarity and access to the laws governing the
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, the town of Alta contracted with Sterling Codifiers to prepare a
compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances; and
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and town council of the town of
Alta, Utah, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the town
code of the town of Alta, Utah, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc. containing
the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the town,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law
of the town as enacted by the mayor and town council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official town code is identified by the proper catch line and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the town clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official town
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official town code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the town code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official town code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the town to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the town code adopted by the same shall be
recorded and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication as provided by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 9th DAY OF December, 2010
   s/Tom Pollard, Mayor
ATTEST:
s/Katherine S.W. Black, Town Clerk
Roll Call Vote:
AYES: 5
NAYS: 0
ABSENT: 0
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
ALTA TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Alterations
1-1-5: Statutes Or Codes Included And Excluded
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the town council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official town code of the town of Alta. This
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the ALTA TOWN CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the town council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the town as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (1980 Code § 1-001; amd. 2010 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2010 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
All amendments made to this code shall be by ordinance. Any ordinance amending
the town code shall set forth the title, chapter and section number of the
section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute sufficient
compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the amendment or
revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such amendments or
revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the codifiers, and the
said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place in
each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be properly identified
and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the town code. (2010 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
town council. The town clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the town clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the town code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the town
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the town and shall be
returned to the office of the town clerk when directed so to do by order of the
town council. (2010 Code)
1-1-5: STATUTES OR CODES INCLUDED AND EXCLUDED:
Any reference or citation to any statute shall not be interpreted or construed
to include, incorporate or make the citation or statute part of this code
unless the provisions of this code specifically include, incorporate or make
the citation or statute part of this code by reference or incorporation, and
any such reference or citation not specifically included or incorporated may be
changed, amended or deleted without publication on an order of the town
council. (1980 Code § 1-009)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the town passed prior
to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the town; and all special ordinances. (1980 Code § 1-
002; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (1980 Code § 1-003)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the town code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2010 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2010 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The town council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1980 Code § 1-007; amd.
2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and town council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Where any provision
of a code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general
provision imposed by the code, the provision imposing the greater restriction
or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   C.   Additional Interpretations:
      1.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
      2.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other town officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
      3.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      4.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
      5.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
      6.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
      7.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      8.   Officers Generally: Whenever any officer is referred by title, such
as "clerk", "treasurer", etc., such reference shall be construed as if followed
by the words "of the town of Alta".
      9.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present. (2010 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The town code of the town of Alta, Utah.
COUNTY: Salt Lake County, state of Utah.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the town for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to town regulation,
authorization or limitation.
GOVERNING BODY: The town council of the town of Alta, Utah.
HIGHWAY, ROAD: Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the words
"county way", "county road", "common road" and "state road".
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
LOCATION: Whenever any act, conduct or offense is prohibited or required and no
reference is made to location, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the act, conduct or offense prohibited or required shall be within
the boundaries of the town.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PROPERTY: Includes both real and personal property.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Utah.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
TIME, HOW COMPUTED: The time within which an act is to be done as provided in
any ordinance or in any resolution or order of the town, when expressed in
days, shall be determined by excluding the first day and including the last
day, except if the last day be a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the last day
shall be the day next following such Sunday or legal holiday which is not a
Sunday or legal holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sunday and all legal
holidays shall be excluded.
TOWN: The town of Alta, Utah.
TOWN COUNCIL: The town council of the town of Alta, Utah.
WEEK: Any seven (7) day period.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1980 Code § 1-005; amd. 2010 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the town code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1980
Code § 1-006; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 :
      1.   Criminal: The town council may impose a minimum criminal penalty for
the violation of any municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum
class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or by a
term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment.
      2.   Civil:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, the town
council may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation of any
municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   A municipality may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication
for the violation of a municipal moving traffic ordinance. (1980 Code § 1-321;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days. (1980 Code § 1-322; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor. (1980 Code
§ 1-323; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction. (1980 Code § 1-331; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the town, or for an offense
defined outside of this code over which this town has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (1980 Code § 1-332; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-3-703.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 1. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 2. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this town shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided. (1980 Code § 1-311)
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions. (1980 Code § 1-312)
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this town when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor. (1980 Code § 1-313)
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this town, or which is expressly designated an infraction, and
any offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this town which is
not designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified, is an
infraction. (1980 Code § 1-314)
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (1980 Code § 1-315)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 76-3-104.
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Eligibility And Residency Requirements
1-5-2: Election, Terms; Vacancies
1-5-3: Mayor As Member Of Town Council
1-5-4: Reserved
1-5-5: Ordinances And Resolutions; Procedures
1-5-1: ELIGIBILITY AND RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Declaration Of Candidacy: A person filing a declaration of candidacy
for a town office shall meet the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section
20A-9-203.
   B.   Registered Voter: Any person elected to a municipal office shall be a
registered voter in the town.
   C.   Residency:
      1.   Each elected officer of the town shall maintain residency within the
boundaries of the town during the officer's term of office.
      2.   If an elected officer of the town establishes a principal place of
residence, as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-2-105, outside the
town during the officer's term of office, the office is automatically vacant.
   D.   Absence: If an elected town officer is absent from the town any time
during the officer's term of office for a continuous period of more than sixty
(60) days without the consent of the town council, the town office is
automatically vacant. (2010 Code)
1-5-2: ELECTION, TERMS; VACANCIES:
   A.   Election; Terms: The election and terms of office shall be as provided
in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-201.
   B.   Vacancy In Office: Mayor or town council vacancies shall be filled as
provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510. (2010 Code)
1-5-3: MAYOR AS MEMBER OF TOWN COUNCIL:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, the mayor:
      1.   Is the chief executive officer of the town to whom all employees of
the town report;
      2.   Shall:
         a.   Keep the peace and enforce the laws of the town;
         b.   Ensure that all applicable statutes and town ordinances and
resolutions are faithfully executed and observed;
         c.   If the mayor remits a fine or forfeiture under subsection A3b of
this section, report the remittance to the town council at the next town
council meeting after the remittance;
         d.   Perform all duties prescribed by statute or town ordinance or
resolution;
         e.   Report to the town council the condition and needs of the town;
and
         f.   Report to the town council any release granted under subsection
A3d of this section; and
      3.   May:
         a.   Recommend for town council consideration any measure that the
mayor considers to be in the best interests of the town;
         b.   Remit fines and forfeitures;
         c.   If necessary, call on residents of the town over the age of
twenty one (21) years to assist in enforcing the laws of the state and
ordinances of the town;
         d.   Release a person imprisoned for a violation of a town ordinance;
         e.   With the town council's advice and consent:
            (1)   Assign or appoint a member of the town council to administer
one or more departments of the town; and
            (2)   Appoint a person to fill a town office or a vacancy on a
commission or committee of the town; and
         f.   At any reasonable time, examine and inspect the official books,
papers, records or documents of:
            (1)   The town; or
            (2)   Any officer, employee or agency of the town.
   B.    The powers and duties in subsection A of this section are subject to:
      1.   Town ordinances in effect on May 4, 2008 modifying the powers and
duties of the mayor; and
      2.   The town council's authority to limit or expand the mayor's powers
and duties under Utah Code Annotated section 10-3b-403(2)(a). (2010 Code)
1-5-4: RESERVED:
Reserved by Ord. 2024-O-3, 2-14-2024.
1-5-5: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Power Exercised By Ordinance: The town council may pass any ordinance
to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity,
business, conduct or condition authorized by statute or any other provision of
law. An officer of the town shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where
he relied on or enforced an ordinance he reasonably believed to be a valid
ordinance. It shall be a defense to any action for punitive damages that the
official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he enforced an
ordinance on advice of legal counsel.
   B.   Form Of Ordinance: Any ordinance passed by the town council shall
contain and be in substantially the following order and form:
      1.   A number;
      2.   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
      3.   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
      4.   An ordaining clause which states "Be it ordained by the town of
Alta:";
      5.   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      6.   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
town ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation is established;
      7.   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
      8.   A line for the signature of the mayor or acting mayor to sign the
ordinance;
      9.   A place for the town clerk to attest the ordinance and affix the
seal of the town;
      10.   Where the mayor may disapprove an ordinance passed by the town
council, the ordinance must show that it was passed with the mayor's approval
or that if the mayor disapproved the ordinance, that it was passed over his
disapproval. If the mayor neither approves or disapproves an ordinance, the
ordinance should show that it became effective without the approval or
disapproval of the mayor.
   C.   Requirements As To Form; Effective Date:
      1.   Ordinances passed or enacted by the town council shall be signed by
the mayor, or if he is absent, by the mayor pro tempore, or by a quorum of the
town council, and shall be recorded before taking effect. No ordinance shall be
void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3-704(1), (2), (3) or (4).
      2.   Ordinances shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication
or posting or thirty (30) days after final passage by the town council,
whichever is closer to the date of final passage, but ordinances may become
effective at an earlier or later date after publication or posting if so
provided in the ordinance.
      3.   Ordinances which do not have an effective date shall become
effective twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days
after final passage by the town council, whichever is sooner.
   D.   Publication And Posting Of Ordinances:
      1.   Before an ordinance may take effect, the legislative body of the
town adopting an ordinance, except an ordinance enacted under Utah Code
Annotated sections 10-3-706 through 10-3-710, shall:
         a.   Deposit a copy of the ordinance in the office of the town clerk;
and
         b.   (1) Publish a short summary of the ordinance at least once:
   (A) In a newspaper published within the town; or
   (B) If there is no newspaper published within the town, in a newspaper of
general circulation within the town; or
            (2)   Post a complete copy of the ordinance in three (3) public
places within the town.
      2.   a. Any ordinance, code or book, other than the state code, relating
to building or safety standards, municipal functions, administration, control
or regulations, may be adopted and shall take effect without further
publication or posting, if reference is made to the code or book and at least
three (3) copies have been filed for use and examination by the public in the
office of the town clerk prior to the adoption of the ordinance by the
governing body.
         b.   Any state law relating to building or safety standards, municipal
functions, administration, control or regulations, may be adopted and shall
take effect without further publication or posting if reference is made to the
state code.
         c.   The ordinance adopting the code or book shall be published in the
manner provided in this subsection.
   E.   Recording, Numbering And Certification Of Passage:
      1.   The town clerk shall record, in a book used exclusively for that
purpose, all ordinances passed by the town council. The town clerk shall give
each ordinance a number, if the town council has not already so done.
Immediately following each ordinance, or codification of ordinances, the town
clerk shall make or cause to be made a certificate stating the date of passage
and of the date of publication or posting, as required. The record and
memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the
contents, passage and publication or posting of the ordinance or codification.
(2010 Code)
      2.   The town clerk, insofar as possible, assigns all ordinances of a
general nature adopted after this code a number, which shall conform to the
numbering system used in this code and shall indicate upon the face of the
ordinance the date adopted.
      3.   The town clerk shall keep all ordinances of a local, private or
temporary nature, including franchises, grants, dedication, bond issues and tax
levies, in a separate book of "special ordinances" properly indexed and
organized according to date adopted.
      4.   Failure to comply with this subsection shall not affect or render
invalid any ordinance of the town. (1980 Code § 1-008; amd. 2010 Code)
   F.   Resolutions:
      1.   Purpose: Unless otherwise required by law, the town council may
exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including, but not limited
to: a) establishing water and sewer rates; b) charges for garbage collection
and fees charged for town services; c) establishing personnel policies and
guidelines; and d) regulating the use and operation of the town property.
Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by resolution.
      2.   Form: Any resolution passed by the town council shall be in a form
and contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.
      3.   Publication; Effective Date: Resolutions may become effective
without publication or posting and may take effect on passage or at a later
date as the town council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three (3) months from the date of passage. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Compensation Of Elected And Certain Appointed Officials
1-6-2: Bond Requirements
1-6-3: Oaths
1-6-4: Appointment Of Town Officials
1-6-1: COMPENSATION OF ELECTED AND CERTAIN APPOINTED OFFICIALS:
   A.   Mayor: The mayor shall be a part time employee and shall be compensated
at the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per month.
   B.   Council Members, Town Treasurer: Council members and the town treasurer
shall be part time employees and shall be compensated at the sum of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per month. (Ord. 2006-O-1, 3-9-2006, eff. retroactive to 1-2-
2006)
1-6-2: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Specified: Before taking the oath of office and entering on the duties
of their respective office, municipal officials shall each have a bond with
good and sufficient securities, payable to the municipality, conditioned for
the faithful performance of the duties of their office and the payment of all
monies received by such officers according to law and the ordinances of this
municipality in such amounts as determined by the town council. (1980 Code § 3-
819; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Town Treasurer: The town treasurer's bond shall be superseded by any
rules, regulation or directive of the state money management council when such
rule, regulation or directive is binding on the town.
   C.   Premium Paid By Town: The premium charged by any corporate surety for
any bond required in this section shall be paid by the town.
   D.   Blanket Bond: The bond required in this section may be a blanket bond.
(1980 Code § 3-819)
1-6-3: OATHS:
   A.   Constitutional Oath Of Office: All officers, whether elected or
appointed, before entering on the duties of their respective offices shall
take, subscribe and file the constitutional oath of office.
   B.   Filing: The oath of office required under this section shall be
administered by any judge, notary public or by the town clerk. Elected
officials shall take their oath of office at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the
first Monday in January following their election or as soon thereafter as is
practical. Appointed officers shall take their oath at any time before entering
on their duties. All oaths of office shall be filed with the town clerk.
   C.   Acts Of Officials Not Voided: No official act of any town officer shall
be invalid for the reason that he failed to take the oath of office. (2010
Code)
1-6-4: APPOINTMENT OF TOWN OFFICIALS:
   A.   Town Manager Appointment: When a vacancy exists in the town manager
position the mayor, with the advice and consent of the town council, shall
appoint a qualified person as town manager.
   B.   When a vacancy occurs in the office of town marshal, town clerk, town
treasurer, or other appointed town office, the town manager shall appoint a
qualified person, with the advice and consent of the town council, to fill the
vacancy.
   C.   Removal of Town Officials: Any appointed official may be removed from
office by a majority vote of the town council.
   D.   Ex Officio Auditor: The town clerk is ex officio the town auditor and
shall perform the duties of that office. (2010 Code; amd. Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-
2023)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Corporate Seal
1-7-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
A corporate seal for the town is hereby authorized, the wording and style of
which is set forth below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ce5a5411c4743de2cbdeb4e514e0369f2a439abc/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1128.gif]
(Ord. 1998-O-4, 5-21-1998)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Conduct Of Municipal Elections
1-8-1: CONDUCT OF MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS:
Municipal elections shall be conducted in accordance with the state election
code, Utah Code Annotated title 20A. (Ord. 1995-O-3, 4-13-1995; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 9
CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURE
SECTION:
1-9-1: Definitions
1-9-2: Statements Filed
1-9-3: Spending And Contribution Limitations
1-9-4: Penalty
1-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
The terms used in this chapter shall have meanings as used and defined within
Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-208. (Ord. 1997-O-1, 1-9-1997, eff. 2-1-1997)
1-9-2: STATEMENTS FILED:
Candidates for elective office shall file signed campaign financial statements
with the town clerk in accordance with the procedures specified in Utah Code
Annotated section 10-3-208, reporting each contribution of more than twenty
five dollars ($25.00) and all in kind contributions and each expenditure. (Ord.
1997-O-1, 1-9-1997, eff. 2-1-1997; amd. 2010 Code)
1-9-3: SPENDING AND CONTRIBUTION LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Candidates for elective office shall be given an opportunity to
publicly commit to spending and contribution limitations. At the time that a
person files for elective office, he or she shall be provided with a form
prepared by the town clerk.
   B.   Said form will inquire of the candidate whether he or she is
voluntarily willing to: 1) limit total campaign spending to less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for council positions and one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for the office of the mayor; 2) limit donations from any one donor
to two hundred dollars ($200.00) or less; 3) refuse donations from
corporations, developers, political action committees (PACs), unions and other
entities which face a substantial likelihood of having matters under
consideration by the town during the upcoming four (4) years; and 4) agree to
participate in at least one debate sponsored by a neutral group prior to the
election. Said form shall be returned to the town clerk within two (2) weeks of
the final filing date for office. In the event a candidate fails to return the
form to the town clerk, said refusal shall constitute a refusal to abide by the
above voluntary conditions. A candidate may also indicate that he or she shall
agree to spend or accept less in contributions than the amounts listed herein.
   C.   Within three (3) weeks from the final filing date for office, the town
clerk shall make public, by posting an announcement in three (3) public places
within the town and by delivering a press release to local media, those
candidates who have voluntarily agreed to abide by the conditions set forth in
subsection B of this section, and those who have not. (Ord. 1997-O-1, 1-9-1997,
eff. 2-1-1997)
1-9-4: PENALTY:
Any person who fails to comply with this chapter is guilty of an infraction,
and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1997-O-1, 1-9-1997, eff. 2-1-1997; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 10
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Request For Hearing
1-10-2: Form Of Request
1-10-3: Procedure
1-10-4: Not Additional Remedy
1-10-1: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
Unless otherwise specifically provided in any ordinance of the town or any code
adopted by reference, a hearing before the town council may be requested by any
person:
   A.   Who is denied or refused a permit or license by any officer, agent or
employee of this town.
   B.   Whose permit or license is revoked, restricted, qualified or limited
from that for which it was first issued. (1980 Code § 1-411)
1-10-2: FORM OF REQUEST:
The request for hearing must be made in writing to the mayor or town clerk and
made within thirty (30) days following the date notice denying, refusing,
revoking, qualifying or restricting the license or permit is mailed by the town
to the applicant or license holder at his address as it appears on the
application or license. (1980 Code § 1-412)
1-10-3: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Time And Place: Following receipt of a request for hearing, the town
council shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the time and place the
hearing is to be held.
   B.   Witnesses; Evidence: At the hearing, the aggrieved party shall have the
right to hear and examine any witnesses the town may produce to support its
decision and to present his own evidence in support of his contention.
   C.   Decision Of Town Council: The town council shall, within ten (10) days
following the conclusion of the hearing, in writing, inform the person who
requested the hearing of the decision of the town council. (1980 Code § 1-413)
1-10-4: NOT ADDITIONAL REMEDY:
This chapter shall not be construed so as to afford any aggrieved party more
than one hearing before the town council, nor shall the hearing provided in
this section apply to any criminal complaint or proceeding. (1980 Code § 1-414)
CHAPTER 11
RECORDS MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Records Manager
1-11-2: Fees
1-11-1: RECORDS MANAGER:
The town clerk is hereby established as the records manager for the town. The
assistant town clerk is hereby established as the assistant records manager.
(Ord. 2005-O-1, 6-16-2005)
1-11-2: FEES:
Fees for the production and copying of records shall be in accordance with the
government records access and management act and shall be established by
resolution. (Ord. 2005-O-1, 6-16-2005)
CHAPTER 12
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES
SECTION:
1-12-1: Policy Considerations
1-12-2: Definition
1-12-3: Guidelines Advisory
1-12-4: Review Of Decision
1-12-5: Reviewing Guidelines
1-12-6: Results Of Review
1-12-1: POLICY CONSIDERATIONS:
There is an underlying policy in the town, strongly favoring the careful
consideration of matters involving constitutional taking claims, in fairness to
the owner of private property bringing the claim and in view of the uncertainty
and expense involved in defending lawsuits alleging such issues. At the same
time, the legitimate role of government in lawfully regulating real property
must be preserved and the public's right to require the dedication or exaction
of property consistent with the constitution. Consistent with this policy, it
is desired that a procedure be established for the review of actions that may
involve the issue of a constitutional taking. These provisions are to assist
governments in considering decisions that may involve constitutional takings.
It is intended that a procedure for such a review is to be provided, as well as
guidelines for such considerations. This chapter is further intended and shall
be construed to objectively and fairly review claims by citizens that a
specific government action should require payment of just compensation, yet
preserve the ability of the town to lawfully regulate real property and fulfill
its other duties and functions. (Ord. 1995-O-1, 1-12-1995)
1-12-2: DEFINITION:
"Constitutional taking" means actions by the town involving the physical taking
or exaction of private real property that might require compensation to a
private real property owner because of:
   A.   The fifth or fourteenth amendment to the constitution of the United
States;
   B.   Article 1, section 22, of the Utah constitution;
   C.   Any recent court ruling governing the physical taking or exaction of
private real property by a government entity. (Ord. 1995-O-1, 1-12-1995; amd.
2010 Code)
1-12-3: GUIDELINES ADVISORY:
The guidelines adopted and decisions rendered pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter are advisory, and shall not be construed to expand or limit the
scope of the town's ability for a constitutional taking. The reviewing body or
person shall not be required to make any determination under this chapter,
except pursuant to section
1-12-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 1995-O-1, 1-12-1995)
1-12-4: REVIEW OF DECISION:
Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a constitutional
taking of their private real property shall request a review of a final
decision of any officer, employee, board, commission or council. The following
are specific procedures established for such a review:
   A.   Final Determination Required: The person requesting a review must have
obtained a final and authoritative determination, internally, within the town,
relative to the decision from which they are requesting review.
   B.   Request For Review: Within thirty (30) days from the date of the final
decision that gave rise to the concern that a constitutional taking has
occurred, the person requesting the review shall file in writing, in the office
of the town clerk, a request for review of that decision. A copy shall also be
filed with the town attorney.
   C.   Review Time Set: The town council, or an individual or board designated
by the town council, shall immediately set a time to review the decision that
gave rise to the constitutional takings claim.
   D.   Required Information; Materials: In addition to the written request for
review, the applicant must submit prior to the date of the review, the
following:
      1.   Name of the applicant requesting review;
      2.   Name and business address of current owner of the property, form of
ownership, whether sole proprietorship, for profit or not for profit
corporation, partnership, joint venture or other, and if owned by a
corporation, partnership or joint venture, name and address of all principal
shareholders or partners;
      3.   A detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there has
been a constitutional taking;
      4.   A detailed description of the property taken;
      5.   Evidence and documentation as to the value of the property taken,
including the date and cost at the date the property was acquired. This should
include any evidence of the value of that same property before and after the
alleged constitutional taking, the name of the party from whom purchased,
including the relationship if any, between the person requesting a review and
the party from whom the property was acquired;
      6.   Nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such as,
but not limited to, fee simple ownership, leasehold interest;
      7.   Terms (including sales price) of any previous purchase or sale of a
full or partial interest in the property in the three (3) years prior to the
date of application;
      8.   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose, including
financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the three (3)
years prior to the date of application;
      9.   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for the
previous three (3) years;
      10.   All information concerning current mortgages or other loans secured
by the property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current interest
rate, remaining loan balance and term of the loan and other significant
provisions, including, but not limited to, right of purchasers to assume the
loan;
      11.   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous three (3) years;
      12.   All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the
petitioner within the previous three (3) years concerning feasibility of
development or utilization of the property;
      13.   For income producing property, itemized income and expense
statements from the property for the previous three (3) years;
      14.   Information from a title policy or other source showing all
recorded liens or encumbrances affecting the property; and
      15.   The town council or their designee may request additional
information reasonably necessary, in their opinion, to arrive at a conclusion
concerning whether there has been a constitutional taking.
   E.   Certification Of Application: An application shall not be deemed to be
"complete" or "submitted" until the reviewing body or official certifies to the
applicant that all the materials and information required above have been
received by the town. The reviewing body or official shall promptly notify the
applicant of any incomplete application.
   F.   Evidence Considered: The town council or an individual or body
designated by them, shall hear all the evidence related to and submitted by the
applicant, town or any other interested party.
   G.   Approval, Rejection; Time Limit: A final decision on the review shall
be rendered within fourteen (14) days from the date the complete application
for review has been received by the town clerk. The decision of the town
council regarding the results of the review shall be given in writing to the
applicant and the office, employee, board, commission or council that rendered
the final decision that gave rise to the constitutional takings claim.
   H.   Failure To Review: If the town council fails to hear and decide the
review within fourteen (14) days, the decision appealed from shall be presumed
to be approved. (Ord. 1995-O-1, 1-12-1995)
1-12-5: REVIEWING GUIDELINES:
The town council shall review the facts and information presented by the
applicant to determine whether or not the action by the town constitutes a
"constitutional taking", as defined in section
1-12-2 of this chapter. In doing so, they shall consider:
   A.   Whether the physical taking or exaction of the private real property
bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest.
   B.   Whether a legitimate governmental interest exists for the action taken
by the town.
   C.   Is the property and exaction taken roughly proportionate and reasonably
related, on an individual property basis, both in nature and extent to the
impact caused by the activities that are the subject of the decision being
reviewed. (Ord. 1995-O-1, 1-12-1995)
1-12-6: RESULTS OF REVIEW:
After completing the review, the reviewing person or body shall make a
determination regarding the above issues and where determined to be necessary
and appropriate, shall make a recommendation to the officer, employee, board,
commission or council that made the decision that gave rise to the
constitutional takings claim. (Ord. 1995-O-1, 1-12-1995)
CHAPTER 13
EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION
SECTION:
1-13-1: Purpose
1-13-2: Administration
1-13-3: No Private Right Of Action; No Special Rights
1-13-4: Severability
1-13-5: Definitions
1-13-6: Exemptions
1-13-7: Unlawful Employment Practices
1-13-8: Unlawful Intimidation, Retaliation, And Coercion
1-13-9: Procedures For Filing Complaints
1-13-10: Investigation
1-13-11: Conciliation
1-13-12: Disposition Of A Complaint
1-13-13: Offenses And Penalties
1-13-1: PURPOSE:
Every individual in the town has the right to work and earn wages through
gainful employment. Discriminatory employment practices are detrimental because
they impede the social and economic progress of the town by preventing all of
the town's citizens from contributing to or fully participating in the
cultural, spiritual, social and commercial life of the community, which is
essential to the vitality of the town. The Utah antidiscrimination act, Utah
code section 34A-5-101 et seq., addresses employment related discrimination
based on race; color; sex; pregnancy; childbirth, or pregnancy related
conditions; religion; national origin; age (if 40 years of age or older); and
disability, but does not address discrimination based on sexual orientation or
gender identity.
The town has found that discrimination in employment on the basis of sexual
orientation and gender identity must be addressed. The denial or deprivation of
employment rights because of an individual's sexual orientation or gender
identity is detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the town's
citizens and damages the town's economic well being. The purpose of this
chapter is to provide a clear and comprehensive mandate for the prevention and
elimination of discrimination in employment in the town against individuals
based upon sexual orientation or gender identity and this chapter shall be
liberally construed to achieve that purpose. (Ord. 2011-O-1, 1-13-2011)
1-13-2: ADMINISTRATION:
The mayor is responsible for administering and implementing this chapter. (Ord.
2011-O-1, 1-13-2011)
1-13-3: NO PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION; NO SPECIAL RIGHTS:
This chapter does not create a private cause of action, nor does it create any
right or remedy that is the same or substantially equivalent to the remedies
provided under federal or state law. This chapter does not create any special
rights or privileges which would not be available to all of the town's citizens
because every person has a sexual orientation and a gender identity. (Ord.
2011-O-1, 1-13-2011)
1-13-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, sentence, paragraph, term, definition or provision of this
chapter is for any reason determined to be illegal, invalid, superseded by
other authority or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction or
by any state or federal regulatory authority having jurisdiction thereof, such
portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision and
such determination shall have no effect on the validity of any other section,
sentence, paragraph, term, definition or provision of this chapter, all of
which will remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 2011-O-1, 1-13-2011)
1-13-5: DEFINITIONS:
Solely for the purposes of this chapter the following definitions apply:
ADMINISTRATOR: The person designated by the mayor to receive, investigate, and
conciliate complaints under this chapter and includes the administrator's
designated representatives.
COMPLAINANT: A person, including the administrator, who files a complaint under
this chapter.
CONCILIATION: The attempted resolution of issues raised in a complaint filed
under this chapter, or raised in the investigation of the complaint, through
informal negotiations involving the complainant, the respondent, and the
administrator.
CONCILIATION AGREEMENT: A written agreement setting forth the resolution of
issues by conciliation under this chapter.
DISCRIMINATION: Any direct or indirect exclusion, distinction, segregation,
limitation, refusal, denial, or other differentiation in the treatment of a
person because of a person's actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender
identity or because of a person's association with any such person.
Discrimination shall not be interpreted to require or to grant or accord
preferential treatment to any person because of that person's sexual
orientation or gender identity. The terms "discriminate", "discrimination" and
"discriminatory" do not include segregation by gender or gender identity, in
the reservation, rental or assignment of employee housing, lodging or quarters
intended to be occupied by individuals of the same gender, sharing sleeping,
living, or bathroom facilities.
EMPLOYEE: Any individual applying with or employed by an employer. The term
does not include an elected official.
EMPLOYER: Any person employing fifteen (15) or more employees in the town for
each working day in each of twenty (20) or more calendar weeks in the current
or preceding calendar year, and includes any agent of such a person.
EMPLOYMENT AGENCY: Any person, and any agent of a person, undertaking to
procure employees or opportunities to work for any other person in the town or
holding itself out to be equipped to procure employees or opportunities to work
for any other person in the town.
GENDER IDENTITY: A person's actual or perceived gender identity, appearance,
mannerisms, or other characteristics of an individual with or without regard to
the person's sex at birth.
LABOR ORGANIZATION: Any organization that exists for the purpose in whole or in
part of collective dealing with employers concerning grievances, terms, or
conditions of employment; or other mutual aid or protection in connection with
employment.
MAYOR: The duly elected or appointed and qualified mayor of the town of Alta.
OTHERWISE QUALIFIED: A person who possesses the following required by an
employer for any particular job, job classification, or position:
   A.   Education;
   B.   Training;
   C.   Ability;
   D.   Moral character;
   E.   Integrity;
   F.   Disposition to work;
   G.   Adherence to reasonable rules and regulations; and
   H.   Other job related qualifications required by an employer.
PERSON: One or more individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations,
legal representatives, trusts or trustees, receivers and the town.
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION: A religious corporation, association, educational
institution, society, trust or any entity or association which is a wholly
owned or controlled subsidiary or agency of any religious corporation,
association, society, trust or corporation sole.
RESPONDENT: A person identified in a complaint as having committed an unlawful
practice under this chapter.
SEXUAL ORIENTATION: A person's actual or perceived orientation as heterosexual,
homosexual, or bisexual.
TOWN: The town of Alta, Utah.
TOWN ATTORNEY: The town's duly appointed attorney.
UNLAWFUL PRACTICE: A discriminatory act or practice relating to employment that
is prohibited under this chapter. (Ord. 2011-O-1, 1-13-2011)
1-13-6: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter does not apply to:
   A.   A religious organization;
   B.   An expressive association whose employment of a person protected by
this chapter would significantly burden the association's rights of expressive
association under Boy Scouts Of America v. Dale, 530 U.S. 640 (2000); or
   C.   The United States government, any of its departments or agencies, or
any corporation wholly owned by it; or the state of Utah or any of its
departments, agencies, or political subdivisions except for the town. (Ord.
2011-O-1, 1-13-2011)
1-13-7: UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES:
   A.   Employers: An employer may not refuse to hire or promote, discharge,
demote, or terminate any person, and may not retaliate against, harass, or
discriminate in matters of compensation or in terms, privileges, and conditions
of employment against any person otherwise qualified because of a person's
sexual orientation or gender identity.
   B.   Employment Agencies: An employment agency may not refuse to list and
properly classify for employment, or refuse to refer a person for employment,
in a known available job for which the person is otherwise qualified because of
a person's sexual orientation or gender identity.
   C.   Labor Organizations: A labor organization may not exclude any person
otherwise qualified from full membership rights in the labor organization,
expel the person from membership in the labor organization, or otherwise
discriminate against or harass any of the labor organization's members in full
employment of work opportunity, or representation, because of a person's sexual
orientation or gender identity.
   D.   Training Programs: An employer, labor organization, joint
apprenticeship committee, or vocational school, providing, coordinating, or
controlling apprenticeship programs, or providing, coordinating, or controlling
on the job training programs, instruction, training, or retraining programs may
not deny to, or withhold from, any qualified person, the right to be admitted
to, or participate in any apprenticeship training program, on the job training
program, or other occupational instruction, training, or retraining program
because of a person's sexual orientation or gender identity.
   E.   Notices And Advertisements: Unless based upon a bona fide occupational
qualification, or required by and given to an agency of government for security
reasons, an employer, employment agency, or labor organization may not print,
or circulate, or cause to be printed or circulated, any statement,
advertisement, or publication, use any form of application for employment or
membership, or make any inquiry in connection with prospective employment or
membership that expresses, either directly or indirectly any limitation,
specification, or discrimination because of a person's sexual orientation or
gender identity. Provided, however, that nothing in this paragraph prohibits
expression of a limitation, specification or discrimination because of gender,
on the basis that the employee is required to live in employee housing and
employee housing is available only for a particular gender.
It is unlawful for a joint labor-management committee controlling
apprenticeship or other training or retraining (including on the job training
programs) to print or publish, or cause to be printed or published, any notice
or advertisement relating to admission to, or employment in, any program
established to provide apprenticeship or other training by the joint labor-
management committee that indicates any preference, limitation, specification,
or discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity.
Nothing in this chapter prohibits a notice or advertisement from indicating a
preference, limitation, specification, or discrimination based on sexual
orientation or gender identity when sexual orientation or gender identity is a
bona fide occupational qualification for employment.
   F.   No Preferential Treatment: Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted
to require any employer, employment agency, labor organization, vocational
school, joint labor-management committee, or apprenticeship program subject to
this chapter to grant preferential treatment to any person because of the
person's sexual orientation or gender identity on account of an imbalance which
may exist with respect to the total number or percentage of persons of any
sexual orientation or gender identity employed by any employer, referred or
classified for employment by an employment agency or labor organization,
admitted to membership or classified by any labor organization, or admitted to
or employed in, any apprenticeship or other training program, in comparison
with the total number or percentage of persons of that sexual orientation or
gender identity available in the town's available work force. (Ord. 2011-O-1,
1-13-2011)
1-13-8: UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION, RETALIATION, AND COERCION:
It is unlawful for any person to discriminate against, harass, threaten, harm,
damage, or otherwise penalize another person for opposing an unlawful practice,
for filing a complaint, or for testifying, assisting, or participating in any
manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this chapter. (Ord.
2011-O-1, 1-13-2011)
1-13-9: PROCEDURES FOR FILING COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Any person who claims to have been injured by an unlawful employment
practice subject to the town's jurisdiction under this chapter may file a
complaint with the administrator. A complaint may also be filed by the
administrator if the administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has committed an unlawful employment practice. A complaint must be filed
within one hundred twenty (120) calendar days after an alleged unlawful
employment practice has occurred.
   B.   A complaint must be in writing, made under oath or affirmation, and
contain the following information:
      1.   The complainant's name, address, and signature;
      2.   The date the alleged unlawful employment practice occurred;
      3.   A statement of the facts upon which the allegation of an unlawful
employment practice is based; and
      4.   The respondent's name and address.
   C.   Promptly after the filing of a complaint, the administrator shall:
      1.   Provide the respondent named in the complaint written notice that a
complaint alleging the commission of an unlawful employment practice has been
filed against the respondent;
      2.   Furnish a copy of the complaint to the respondent; and
      3.   Advise the respondent of the respondent's procedural rights and
obligations, including the right to file a written, signed, and verified
informal answer to the complaint within fifteen (15) days after service of
notice of the complaint.
   D.   Not later than the fifteenth day after service of the notice and copy
of the complaint, a respondent may file an answer to the complaint. The answer
must be in writing, made under oath or affirmation, and contain the following
information:
      1.   The respondent's name, address, telephone number, and signature of
the respondent or the respondent's attorney, if any; and
      2.   A concise statement of facts in response to the allegations in the
complaint, including facts of any defense or exception. (Ord. 2011-O-1, 1-13-
2011)
1-13-10: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Upon the filing of a complaint, the administrator shall commence an
investigation to determine the facts behind the complaint and whether there is
reasonable cause to believe the respondent committed an unlawful employment
practice, except that no investigation may commence if, after reviewing the
allegations of the complaint, the administrator determines that the complaint
does not come within the scope of this chapter. Upon determining that a
particular complaint does not come within the scope of this chapter, the
administrator shall dismiss the complaint, notify the complainant and
respondent and take no further action.
   B.   In connection with any investigation of a complaint filed under this
chapter, the administrator shall seek the voluntary cooperation of any person
to:
      1.   Obtain access to premises, records, documents, individuals, and any
other possible source of information;
      2.   Examine, record, and copy necessary materials; and
      3.   Take and record testimony or statements of any person reasonably
necessary for the furtherance of the investigation.
   C.   The administrator may dismiss a complaint during the investigation and
prior to referral to the town attorney if the administrator determines that:
      1.   The complaint was not filed within the required time period;
      2.   The location of the alleged unlawful employment practice is not
within the town's jurisdiction;
      3.   The employer does not employ a sufficient number of employees in the
town to meet this chapter's jurisdictional requirements;
      4.   The alleged unlawful employment practice is not a violation of this
chapter;
      5.   The complainant refuses to cooperate with the administrator in the
investigation of the complaint or enforcement of an executed conciliation
agreement;
      6.   The complainant cannot be located after the administrator has
performed a reasonable search; or
      7.   A conciliation agreement has been executed by the complainant and
respondent. (Ord. 2011-O-1, 1-13-2011)
1-13-11: CONCILIATION:
   A.   During or after the investigation, but subsequent to the mailing of the
notice of the complaint to the respondent, the administrator shall, if the
respondent appears to have committed an unlawful employment practice, attempt
to conciliate the complaint. In conciliating a complaint, the administrator
shall try to achieve a just resolution and obtain assurances that the
respondent will satisfactorily remedy any violation of the complainant's rights
and take action to ensure the elimination of both present and future unlawful
employment practices. A conciliation agreement may include: sensitivity
training for the respondent and/or the respondent's employees; the respondent's
agreement to adopt and pursue a policy of nondiscrimination in employment
practices; and the respondent's agreement to not engage in discriminatory
practices in the future.
   B.   A conciliation agreement executed under this section must be in writing
in a form approved by the town attorney and must be signed and verified by the
respondent and the complainant, subject to approval of the administrator who
shall indicate approval by signing the agreement.
   C.   If a respondent voluntarily enters into a conciliation agreement, the
administrator shall immediately dismiss the complaint. (Ord. 2011-O-1, 1-13-
2011)
1-13-12: DISPOSITION OF A COMPLAINT:
   A.   If, upon completion of an investigation of a complaint, the
administrator determines that an unlawful employment practice has occurred and
is unable to secure an acceptable conciliation agreement from the respondent,
then the administrator shall refer the case to the town attorney. The
administrator shall refer the entire file to the town attorney, who shall
determine how best to pursue further action, if any, on the complaint.
   B.   If the town attorney determines that cause exists to find that an
unlawful employment practice occurred and the facts are sufficient to warrant
the initiation of an action in justice court, then the town attorney shall
provide written notification to the respondent and the complainant that an
action to enforce this chapter may be initiated in justice court. If the town
attorney determines that there is no cause that an unlawful employment practice
occurred or that the facts are insufficient to warrant the initiation of an
action in justice court, the town attorney shall provide written notification
to the respondent and the complainant and notify the administrator who shall
then dismiss the complaint. (Ord. 2011-O-1, 1-13-2011)
1-13-13: OFFENSES AND PENALTIES:
A person violates this chapter if the person engages in any action made
unlawful by this chapter. An offense committed under this chapter is punishable
by a civil fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2011-O-1, 1-13-2011)
CHAPTER 14
HOUSING DISCRIMINATION
SECTION:
1-14-1: Purpose
1-14-2: Administration
1-14-3: No Private Right Of Action; No Special Rights
1-14-4: Severability
1-14-5: Definitions
1-14-6: Exemptions
1-14-7: Unlawful Housing Practices
1-14-8: Unlawful Intimidation, Retaliation, And Coercion
1-14-9: Procedures For Filing Complaints
1-14-10: Investigation
1-14-11: Conciliation
1-14-12: Disposition Of A Complaint
1-14-13: Offenses And Penalties
1-14-1: PURPOSE:
Every individual in the town has the right to seek housing. Discriminatory
housing practices are detrimental because they impede the social and economic
progress of the town by preventing all of the town's citizens from contributing
to or fully participating in the cultural, spiritual, social and commercial
life of the community, which is essential to the vitality of the town.
The Utah fair housing act, Utah code section 57-21-1 et seq., addresses housing
related discrimination based on race; color; religion; sex; national origin;
familial status; source of income; and disability, but does not address
discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity.
The town has found that discrimination in housing on the basis of sexual
orientation and gender identity must be addressed. The denial or deprivation of
access to housing because of an individual's sexual orientation or gender
identity is detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the town's
citizens and damages the town's economic well being. The purpose of this
chapter is to provide a clear and comprehensive mandate for the prevention and
elimination of discrimination in housing in the town against individuals based
upon sexual orientation or gender identity and this chapter shall be liberally
construed to achieve that purpose. (Ord. 2011-O-2, 1-13-2011)
1-14-2: ADMINISTRATION:
The mayor is responsible for administering and implementing this chapter. (Ord.
2011-O-2, 1-13-2011)
1-14-3: NO PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION; NO SPECIAL RIGHTS:
This chapter does not create a private cause of action, nor does it create any
right or remedy that is the same or substantially equivalent to the remedies
provided under federal or state law. This chapter does not create any special
rights or privileges which would not be available to all of the town's
citizens, because every person has a sexual orientation and a gender identity.
(Ord. 2011-O-2, 1-13-2011)
1-14-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, sentence, paragraph, term, definition or provision of this
chapter is for any reason determined to be illegal, invalid, superseded by
other authority or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction or
by any state or federal regulatory authority having jurisdiction thereof, such
portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision and
such determination shall have no effect on the validity of any other section,
sentence, paragraph, term, definition or provision of this chapter, all of
which will remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 2011-O-2, 1-13-2011)
1-14-5: DEFINITIONS:
Solely for the purposes of this chapter the following definitions apply:
ADMINISTRATOR: The person designated by the mayor to receive, investigate, and
conciliate complaints under this chapter and includes the administrator's
designated representatives.
COMPLAINANT: A person, including the administrator, who files a complaint under
this chapter.
CONCILIATION: The attempted resolution of issues raised in a complaint filed
under this chapter, or raised in the investigation of the complaint, through
informal negotiations involving the complainant, the respondent, and the
administrator.
CONCILIATION AGREEMENT: A written agreement setting forth the resolution of
issues by conciliation under this chapter.
DISCRIMINATION: Any direct or indirect exclusion, distinction, segregation,
limitation, refusal, denial, or other differentiation in the treatment of a
person or persons because of a person's actual or perceived sexual orientation
or gender identity or because of a person's association with any such person.
Discrimination shall not be interpreted to require or to grant or accord
preferential treatment to any person because of that person's sexual
orientation or gender identity. The terms "discriminate", "discrimination" and
"discriminatory" do not include segregation by gender or gender identity, in
the reservation, rental or assignment of housing, lodging or employee quarters
intended to be occupied by individuals of the same gender, sharing sleeping,
living or bathroom facilities.
DWELLING: Any building or structure, or a portion of a building or structure,
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence of one or
more persons inside the town and vacant land that is offered for sale or lease
for the construction or location of a dwelling inside the town.
GENDER IDENTITY: A person's actual or perceived gender identity, appearance,
mannerisms, or other characteristics of a person with or without regard to the
person's sex at birth.
MAYOR: The duly elected or appointed and qualified mayor of the town of Alta.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, limited liability
companies, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal
representatives, mutual companies, joint stock companies, trusts,
unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under the United
States bankruptcy code, receivers, and fiduciaries.
REAL ESTATE BROKER OR SALESPERSON: A principal real estate broker, an associate
real estate broker, or a real estate sales agent as those terms are defined in
Utah code section 61-2-2 or any successor provision.
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION: A religious corporation, association, educational
institution, society, trust, or any entity or association which is a wholly
owned or controlled subsidiary or agency of any religious corporation,
association, society, trust or corporation sole.
RENT: To lease, sublease, let, or otherwise grant for a consideration the right
to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTION: The making or purchasing of loans
or providing other financial assistance for purchasing, constructing,
improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling; or secured by residential real
estate; or selling, brokering, or appraising residential real property inside
the town.
RESPONDENT: A person identified in a complaint as having committed an unlawful
housing practice under this chapter.
SEXUAL ORIENTATION: A person's actual or perceived orientation as heterosexual,
homosexual, or bisexual.
TOWN: The town of Alta, Utah.
TOWN ATTORNEY: The town's duly appointed attorney.
UNLAWFUL PRACTICE: A discriminatory act or practice relating to housing that is
prohibited under this chapter. (Ord. 2011-O-2, 1-13-2011)
1-14-6: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter does not apply to a temporary or permanent residence facility
operated by a nonprofit organization; a charitable organization; or a person in
conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, including
any dormitory operated by a public or private educational institution, if the
discrimination is based on sexual orientation or gender identity for reasons of
personal modesty or privacy or in the furtherance of a religious organization's
sincerely held religious beliefs.
This chapter does not prohibit or restrict a religious organization or any
nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or
in conjunction with a religious organization from limiting the sale, rental, or
occupancy of dwellings it owns or operates for primarily noncommercial purposes
to persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons.
This chapter does not prohibit distinctions based on a person's inability or
failure to fulfill the terms and conditions, including financial obligations,
of a lease, rental agreement, contract of purchase or sale, mortgage, trust
deed, or other financing agreement.
This chapter does not apply to: a) the United States government, any of its
departments or agencies, or any corporation wholly owned by it; or b) the
government of the state of Utah or any of its departments, agencies, or
political subdivisions, except for the town. (Ord. 2011-O-2, 1-13-2011)
1-14-7: UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES:
   A.   Discriminatory Housing Practices: It is a discriminatory housing
practice to do any of the following:
      1.   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, refuse
to negotiate for the sale or rental, or otherwise deny or make unavailable any
dwelling from any person because of the person's sexual orientation or gender
identity;
      2.   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of the sale or rental of any dwelling or in providing facilities or
services in connection with the dwelling because of the person's sexual
orientation or gender identity;
      3.   Represent to any person that any dwelling is not available for
inspection, sale, or rental when in fact the dwelling is available;
      4.   To make a representation orally or in writing or make, print,
circulate, publish, post, or cause to be made, printed, circulated, published,
or posted any notice, statement, or advertisement, or to use any application
form for the sale or rental of a dwelling, that directly or indirectly
expresses any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on sexual
orientation or gender identity, or expresses any intent to make any such
preference, limitation, or discrimination;
      5.   To induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to buy, sell,
or rent any dwelling by making representations about the entry or prospective
entry into the neighborhood of persons of a particular sexual orientation or
gender identity;
      6.   Engage in any discriminatory housing practices because of sexual
orientation or gender identity based upon a person's association with another
person.
   B.   Discriminatory Housing Practice By Broker Or Salesperson: It is a
discriminatory housing practice for a real estate broker or salesperson to do
any of the following because of a person's sexual orientation or gender
identity:
      1.   To discriminate against any person in making available a residential
real estate transaction, or in the terms or conditions of the transaction,
inside the town, because of a person's sexual orientation or gender identity;
      2.   To deny any person access to, or membership or participation in, any
multiple listing service, real estate brokers' organization, or other service,
organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings inside the town or to discriminate against any person in the terms or
conditions of access, membership, or participation in the organization,
service, or facility inside the town because of a person's sexual orientation
or gender identity; or
      3.   Engage in any discriminatory housing practices inside the town
because of sexual orientation or gender identity based upon a person's
association with another person.
   C.   Exceptions: This chapter does not apply to the following:
      1.   The sale or rental of any single-family dwelling, if the owner:
         a.   Does not own an interest in or title to four (4) or more single-
family dwellings held for lease or sale at one time located inside the town;
         b.   Has not sold two (2) or more single-family dwellings inside the
town in which the owner did not reside in the dwelling within the twenty four
(24) month period preceding the sale or rental of the dwelling; and
         c.   Does not use the services or facilities of any real estate
broker, agent, or salesperson, or of any other person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, in connection with the sale or rental of the
dwelling inside the town.
      2.   The rental of a dwelling that is occupied or intended to be occupied
by no more than four (4) families living independently of each other, when the
owner actually maintains and occupies part of the dwelling as a residence.
      3.   Nothing in this section prohibits conduct against a person because
of the person's conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction of the illegal
manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance under state or federal
law. (Ord. 2011-O-2, 1-13-2011)
1-14-8: UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION, RETALIATION, AND COERCION:
It is unlawful for any person to discriminate against, harass, threaten, harm,
damage, or otherwise penalize another person for opposing an unlawful practice,
for filing a complaint, or for testifying, assisting, or participating in any
manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this chapter. (Ord.
2011-O-2, 1-13-2011)
1-14-9: PROCEDURES FOR FILING COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Any person who claims to have been injured by an unlawful housing
practice may file a complaint with the administrator. A complaint may also be
filed by the administrator if the administrator has reasonable cause to believe
that a person has committed an unlawful housing practice. A complaint must be
filed within one hundred twenty (120) calendar days after an alleged unlawful
housing practice has occurred.
   B.   A complaint must be in writing, made under oath or affirmation, and
contain the following information:
      1.   The complainant's name, address, and signature;
      2.   The date the alleged unlawful housing practice occurred;
      3.   A statement of the facts upon which the allegation of an unlawful
practice is based; and
      4.   The respondent's name and address.
   C.   Promptly after the filing of a complaint, the administrator shall:
      1.   Provide the respondent named in the complaint written notice that a
complaint alleging the commission of an unlawful housing practice has been
filed against the respondent;
      2.   Furnish a copy of the complaint to the respondent; and
      3.   Advise the respondent of the respondent's procedural rights and
obligations, including the right to file a written, signed, and verified
informal answer to the complaint within fifteen (15) days after service of
notice of the complaint.
   D.   Not later than the fifteenth day after service of the notice and copy
of the complaint, a respondent may file an answer to the complaint. The answer
must be in writing, made under oath or affirmation, and contain the following
information:
      1.   The respondent's name, address, telephone number, and signature of
the respondent or the respondent's attorney, if any; and
      2.   A concise statement of facts in response to the allegations in the
complaint, including facts of any defense or exception. (Ord. 2011-O-2, 1-13-
2011)
1-14-10: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Upon the filing of a complaint, the administrator shall commence an
investigation to determine the facts behind the complaint and whether there is
reasonable cause to believe the respondent committed an unlawful housing
practice, except that no investigation may commence if, after reviewing the
allegations of the complaint, the administrator determines that the complaint
does not come within the scope of this chapter. Upon determining that a
particular complaint does not come within the scope of this chapter, the
administrator shall dismiss the complaint, notify the complainant and the
respondent and take no further action.
   B.   In connection with any investigation of a complaint filed under this
chapter, the administrator shall seek the voluntary cooperation of any person
to:
      1.   Obtain access to premises, records, documents, individuals, and any
other possible source of information;
      2.   Examine, record, and copy necessary materials; and
      3.   Take and record testimony or statements of any person reasonably
necessary for the furtherance of the investigation.
   C.   The administrator may dismiss a complaint during the investigation and
prior to referral to the town attorney if the administrator determines that:
      1.   The complaint was not filed within the required time period;
      2.   The location of the alleged unlawful housing practice is not within
the town's jurisdiction;
      3.   The alleged unlawful housing practice is not a violation of this
chapter;
      4.   The complainant refuses to cooperate with the administrator in the
investigation of the complaint or enforcement of an executed conciliation
agreement;
      5.   The complainant cannot be located after the administrator has
performed a reasonable search; or
      6.   A conciliation agreement has been executed by the complainant and
respondent. (Ord. 2011-O-2, 1-13-2011)
1-14-11: CONCILIATION:
   A.   During or after the investigation, but subsequent to the mailing of the
notice of the complaint to the respondent, the administrator shall, if it
appears that the respondent has committed an unlawful housing practice, attempt
to conciliate the complaint. In conciliating a complaint, the administrator
shall try to achieve a just resolution and obtain assurances that the
respondent will satisfactorily remedy any violation of the complainant's rights
and take action to ensure the elimination of both present and future unlawful
housing practices. A conciliation agreement may include: sensitivity training
for the respondent and/or the respondent's employees; the respondent's
agreement to adopt and pursue a policy of nondiscrimination in its practices;
and the respondent's agreement to not engage in discriminatory practices in the
future.
   B.   A conciliation agreement executed under this section must be in writing
in a form approved by the town attorney and must be signed and verified by the
respondent and the complainant, subject to approval of the administrator who
shall indicate approval by signing the agreement.
   C.   If a respondent voluntarily enters into a conciliation agreement, the
administrator shall immediately dismiss the complaint. (Ord. 2011-O-2, 1-13-
2011)
1-14-12: DISPOSITION OF A COMPLAINT:
   A.   If, upon completion of an investigation of a complaint, the
administrator determines that an unlawful housing practice has occurred and is
unable to secure an acceptable conciliation agreement from the respondent, then
the administrator shall refer the case to the town attorney. The administrator
shall refer the entire file to the town attorney, who shall determine how best
to pursue further action, if any, on the complaint.
   B.   If the town attorney determines that cause exists that an unlawful
housing practice occurred and the facts are sufficient to warrant the
initiation of an action in justice court, then the town attorney shall provide
written notification to the respondent and the complainant that an action to
enforce this chapter may be initiated in justice court. If the town attorney
determines that there is no cause that an unlawful housing practice occurred or
that the facts are insufficient to warrant the initiation of an action in
justice court, the town attorney shall provide written notification to the
respondent and the complainant and notify the administrator who shall then
dismiss the complaint. (Ord. 2011-O-2, 1-13-2011)
1-14-13: OFFENSES AND PENALTIES:
A person violates this chapter if the person intentionally or knowingly
violates a provision of this chapter or if the person intentionally or
knowingly obstructs or prevents compliance with this chapter. An offense
committed under this chapter is punishable by a civil fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2011-O-2, 1-13-2011)
CHAPTER 15
TOWN MANAGER
SECTION:
1-15-1: Town Manager Office Created; Administrative Provisions
1-15-2: Town Manager Duties And Obligations
1-15-3: Mayoral Duties Delegated To Town Manager
1-15-1: TOWN MANAGER OFFICE CREATED; ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
Office Created: The office of the Town Manager, which shall be known as "Town
Manager", is created and established pursuant to Utah code section 10-3b-403.
The Town Manager shall be referred to as the Town Manager and is the chief
administrative officer of the Town.
   A.   Control: The powers, duties and functions of the office of Town Manager
shall be subject to the control and policies of the Town pursuant to Town
ordinance and resolution.
   B.   Appointment or Removal: The Town Manager shall be appointed or removed
pursuant to
1-6-4.
   C.   Bond or crime insurance: Before taking office, either the Town Manager
shall furnish a fidelity bond, at the expense of the Town, in an amount between
seventy thousand dollars ($70,000.00) to three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00), conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties,
with a corporation licensed to do business in this state as a surety; or the
town shall purchase crime insurance in at least the amount shown in Utah
Administrative Code R628-4-4 (or successor regulation). Proof of such bond or
insurance shall be filed with the Town Clerk after the Town Manager is
appointed.
   D.   Employment Agreement: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a
limitation on the power or authority of the Town Council to enter into any
employment agreement with the Town Manager with additional terms and conditions
of employment not inconsistent with any provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Salary: The salary and other compensation of the Town Manager shall be
established by the Town Council in accordance with Utah law.
   F.   Office And Time Spent: The Town Manager shall maintain an office in the
Town offices and shall spend such time in the performance of the duties of Town
Manager as is necessary or required to perform the duties as assigned in Town
ordinance or resolution. The Town Manager shall not accept any outside
employment in addition to employment by the Town without prior approval of the
Town Council.
   G.   Residence: The Town Manager need not be a resident of the Town at the
time of the Town Manager's appointment or thereafter.
   H.   Resignation: Before voluntarily resigning from the position of Town
Manager, the Town Manager shall give the Town Council at least sixty (60) days'
written notice of his or her intent to resign.
(Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023; amd. Ord. 2024-O-2, 1-10-2024)
1-15-2: TOWN MANAGER DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   Town Manager Duties: Pursuant to the policies and programs established
by the Town Council, and under the direction and oversight of the Mayor and as
otherwise directed by the Town Council in ordinance, resolution, motion, or
this code, the Town Manager shall:
      1.   Manage the internal affairs of the Town; develop, recommend and
implement Town policies, practices, rules, regulations and procedures; report
to the Mayor and Town Council at least monthly; advise the Town Council
regarding policy options and implementation procedures; carry out legislative
directives and decisions; and administer contracts.
      2.   Establish and maintain effective working relationships with the
Mayor, Town Council, Town staff, Town officers, employees, citizen committees,
special interest groups, media, contractors, public vendors and representatives
from other municipal, county, special district, state and federal agencies.
      3.   Conduct performance evaluations and administer pay adjustments
subject to the approved budget.
      4.   Consistent with Town ordinance, resolution, motions, and policy be
responsible for the full and effective use of Town personnel by establishing,
in consultation with the Town attorney, Town officers and other management
employees, overall department objectives, priorities and standards consistent
with the goals, direction, and objectives of the Town Council; serve as a
facilitator in the achievement by Town departments of Town Council goals by
coordinating effective implementation of Town service levels, ordinances,
resolutions, rules, regulations and directives; exercise managerial control to
ensure that the Town government and its respective departments function in the
most efficient and effective manner.
      5.   Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Mayor, Town Council and its
members shall deal with the administration solely through the Town Manager and,
neither the Council nor any member thereof or the Mayor, shall give orders to
any subordinates of the Town Manager, either publicly or privately.
      6.   Represent the Town at various meetings or other functions and
respond to requests or inquiries about Town policies, rules, ordinances,
regulations, resolutions or services rendered by the Town government.
      7.   Enforce all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and
policies of the Town. Assure that all franchises, leases, permits, licenses,
contracts and privileges granted by the Town are fully performed and observed.
      8.   Recommend and prepare for consideration by the Town Council and
advisory committees long range strategic plans and programs to provide for the
health, safety, and welfare of the current and future inhabitants of the Town;
furnish reports to the Town Council as requested.
      9.   Except as otherwise provided, be responsible for the overall
personnel management, function, and implementation of Town personnel
ordinances, rules, and regulations that have been adopted, approved, or revised
by the Town Council; coordinate personnel ordinances and rules and regulations
adopted by the Town Council; coordinate personnel functions with staff such as
recruitment, selection, and appointment; monitor personnel actions, promotion,
discipline, demotion, separation and reclassification; coordinate personnel
decisions with department directors; coordinate activities of individuals
rendering professional services under contract with the Town.
      10.   Exercise general supervision over all buildings, parks, and other
public property under the control and jurisdiction of the Town.
      11.   The Town Manager may examine and inspect the books, records, and
official papers of any office, department, agency, board, or commission of the
Town and make investigations and require reports from or about all personnel.
      12.   The Town Manager shall promptly notify the Mayor and Town Council
of any emergency existing in the Town, or in a Town department or body.
      13.   Create all necessary departments as approved by the Town Council.
Create all necessary departments, sections, and offices necessary for the
government of the Town; prepare recommendations for the Town Council regarding
the addition, deletion, or reduction in municipal services.
      14.   Attend and participate in all meetings of the Town Council unless
otherwise excluded by the Town Council in a closed executive session, but shall
not have a right to vote in Town Council meetings.
      15.   Perform all other duties and obligations, and exercise the powers
set forth by ordinance, resolution, regulation, or directive imposed by the
Town Council.
   B.   Department Cooperation: It shall be the duty of all employees to
cooperate with the Town Manager in administering the affairs of the Town
efficiently, economically, and harmoniously.
   C.   Planning And Land Use: Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Town Manager
shall exercise no authority over the planning commission or an appeal and
variance hearing officer.
   D.   Performance Evaluation: The Town Council shall periodically evaluate,
at least once every three years, the performance of the Town Manager.
   E.   Powers Of The Mayor Not Delegated: Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to delegate to the Town Manager the legislative and judicial powers
of the mayor, the mayor's position as chief executive officer of the Town
pursuant to Utah code section 10-3b-104(1)(a), chairperson of the Town Council,
or any ex officio position which the mayor shall hold. (Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-
2023)
1-15-3: MAYORAL DUTIES DELEGATED TO TOWN MANAGER:
   A.   Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. UCA § 10-3B-403(1)(b)(iii) or its successor,
the Town hereby delegates the following statutory duties of the Mayor to the
Town Manager:
      1.   Faithfully execute and enforce all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules, and regulations, and see that all franchises, leases, permits,
contracts, licenses, and privileges granted by the municipality are observed;
      2.   Carry out the policies and programs established by the council;
      3.   Organize and direct the management of the executive affairs of the
municipality in a manner consistent with municipal ordinances;
      4.   Appoint a budget officer for the purpose of complying with the
requirements of the Uniform Municipal Fiscal Procedures act;
      5.   Appoint, with the advice and consent of the council, a qualified
person to each of the following offices: town clerk, town marshal, town
treasurer and any other offices as may be deemed necessary for the good
government of the town and regulate and prescribe the powers and duties of all
other officers of the town, except as provided by law or by ordinance;
      6.   Examine and inspect the books, records, and official papers of any
office, department, agency, board, or commission of the municipality, and make
investigations and require reports from personnel;
      7.   Establish standards, qualifications, criteria, and procedures to
govern the appointments, by heads of offices, departments, and agencies, or by
other authorized officers, of divisional officers, assistants, deputies, and
employees within their respective organizational units, subject to any
applicable provisions of the merit system and town code;
      8.   Submit to the council plans and programs relating to the development
and needs of the municipality, and annual and special reports concerning the
financial, administrative, and operational activities of municipal offices,
departments, agencies, boards, and commissions, together with an evaluation and
recommendation relating to them;
      9.   Attend all meetings of the town council and planning commission and
take part in discussions and deliberations, but without the right to vote;
      10.   Appoint, with approval by majority vote of the full membership of
the council, an acting municipal manager to serve in his absence or temporary
incapacity to perform the powers and duties provided for in this part; and
discharge any other duties specified by statute or imposed by the council;
   B.   Any or all of these duties may be returned to the Mayor by the
affirmative vote of:
      1.   The mayor and a majority of all other council members; or
      2.   All council members except the mayor. (Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
(Reserved)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Required
3-1-3: Exemptions
3-1-4: License Fee; License Assessor And Collector
3-1-5: Application For License
3-1-6: Payment Of License Fee
3-1-7: Certificate Of License
3-1-8: Reciprocal Recognition Of Licenses
3-1-9: Display Of License
3-1-10: Transfer Prohibited
3-1-11: Branch Establishments
3-1-12: Joint License
3-1-13: Revocation Or Denial Of License
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title:
BUSINESS: Means and includes all activities engaged in within the Town carried
on for the purpose of gain or economic profit, except:
A. The acts of employees rendering service to employers shall not be included
in the term "business" unless otherwise specifically provided; and
B. Activities engaged in within the Town carried on for the purpose of gain or
economic profit that are operated only occasionally and by an individual who is
under eighteen (18) years of age shall not be included in the term "business".
EACH SEPARATE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate establishment or place of
operation, whether or not operating under the same name, within the Town,
including a lodging facility, home, condominium unit, time period unit or other
place of lodging if the same is held out by advertisements, listings or
otherwise as the establishment or place of operation of a person engaging in
the business of selling tangible, personal property at either retail or
wholesale, or both, in the Town.
EMPLOYEE: The operator, owner or manager of a place of business and any persons
employed by such person in the operation of said place of business in any
capacity.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Includes, but is not limited to, the sale of tangible
personal property at retail or wholesale, the manufacturing of goods or
property and the rendering of personal services for others for a consideration
by persons engaged in any profession, trade, craft, business, occupation or
other calling, except the rendering of personal services by an employee to his
employer under any contract of personal employment.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate location maintained or operated by the
licensee within the Town from which a business activity is conducted or
transacted.
WHOLESALE: A sale of tangible personal property by wholesalers to retail
merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers for resale, and does not
include a sale by wholesalers or retailers to users or consumers not for
resale, except as otherwise specified.
WHOLESALER: A person doing a regularly organized wholesale or jobbing business
and selling to retail merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers, for the
purpose of resale. (Ord. 2017-O-3, 11-9-2017)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be a Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, for any person to transact, engage in or carry on any
business, trade, profession or calling, or to operate a vending, pinball or
coin operated machine without first receiving the class or type of license
required by the Town. (1980 Code § 9-112; amd. 2010 Code)
3-1-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following businesses are not required to have a business license:
   A.   A business that is operated only occasionally; and by an individual who
is under 18 years of age; or
   B.   A home-based business, unless the combined offsite impact of the home-
based business and the primary residential use materially exceeds the offsite
impact of the primary residential uses alone.
   C.   Notwithstanding division B., a business license fee is required for a
license to a home-based business owner but who requests a license from the
town. (amd. Ord. 2021-O-8, 9-29-2021)
3-1-4: LICENSE FEE; LICENSE ASSESSOR AND COLLECTOR:
   A.   The annual license fee, the enhanced service cost fee and the
disproportionate cost fee shall be referred to in aggregate as the license fee.
      1.   It is determined by the town council that a disproportionate level
of municipal services are provided to certain businesses within the city in
comparison with the level of services provided to other businesses and to
residences within the city, based on additional municipal services provided to
such businesses and on disproportionate use of police services.
      2.   It is determined by the town council that an enhanced services are
given to certain businesses. However, the associated fee for the enhanced
service will only be assessed on the first business license issued to entities
with more than one business license in the same category.
   B.   The town clerk, or designee, is designated and appointed as ex officio
assessor of license fees and disproportionate cost fees for the town. On
receipt of any application for a license, the town clerk shall assess the
amount due thereon and shall collect all license fees and disproportionate cost
fees based upon the rate established by resolution. The town clerk shall
enforce all provisions of this title, and shall cause to be filed complaints
against all persons violating any of the provisions of this title. (1980 Code §
9-113; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2021-O-8, 9-29-2021)
3-1-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Information Required: All applications for license shall include:
      1.   The name of the person desiring a license.
      2.   The kind of license desired, stating the business, calling, trade or
profession to be performed, practiced or carried on.
      3.   The class of license desired, if such licenses are divided into
classes.
      4.   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
carried on, giving street number if the business, calling, trade or profession
is to be carried on in any building or enclosure having such number.
      5.   The period of time for which such license is desired to be issued.
(1980 Code § 9-116; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Dwellings As Businesses In Peruvian Estates Zoning District; Fee 1 :
Owners of dwellings within the Peruvian estates zoning district who comply with
all zoning requirements may receive a business license allowing them to rent
their dwellings only upon compliance with the following conditions:
      1.   Satisfaction of the requirements set forth in subsection A of this
section.
      2.   A letter from the town marshal confirming that the dwelling can be
connected to the town "interlodge" avalanche warning system, that the dwelling
has posted the necessary avalanche warnings to all occupants, and that the town
marshal has met with and discussed "interlodge" procedures with the owner and
the caretaker. (Ord. 1997-O-4, 11-13-1997, eff. 11-27-1997; amd. 2010 Code;
amd. Ord. 2021-O-5, 7-15-2021)
   C.   Time Period Unit Projects And Condominium Projects:
      1.   Every time period unit project and condominium project owners'
association shall obtain a business license from the town each year.
      2.   No license shall be issued until a fully completed license
application is filed with the town clerk in the form and manner prescribed by
the town, and is thereafter processed to determine the accuracy of the
information contained in the application and to determine if the applicant is
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and other applicable, lawful
ordinances and regulations.
      3.   The town may refuse to issue or renew any business license granted
hereunder until the applicant complies and presents adequate evidence of future
compliance with lawful and applicable ordinances and regulations designed to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
      4.   The town may collect as a fee for such license a sum equal to the
revenue which would accrue to the town if the use of the residential units and
other facilities in the time period unit project and/or condominium project
were taxed as a private business. The intent of this subsection is to ensure
that all periodic residents and users of public services and facilities share
equally in the payment of sales and other taxes which generate revenue to pay
for such service. (Ord. 2013-O-1, 9-12-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 6, article B of this code.
3-1-6: PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Payment Dates: All license fees shall be due and payable as follows,
except as may be otherwise provided:
      1.   Annual fees shall be payable before each year in advance. The annual
license shall date from November 1 of each year and shall expire on October 31
of the following year.
      2.   Annual fees shall be due on November 1 each year and shall become
delinquent if not paid by December 1 each year. (1980 Code § 9-114; amd. 2010
Code)
   B.   Penalty For Late Payment: If any license fee is not paid within thirty
(30) days of the due date, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of such
license fee shall be added to the original amount thereof. No license shall be
issued until all penalties legally assessed have been paid in full. (1980 Code
§ 9-115)
   C.   Fee Not To Constitute Undue Burden On Interstate Commerce: None of the
license fees provided for by this title shall be applied as to occasion an
undue burden on interstate commerce. In any case, where a license fee is
believed by a licensee or applicant for license to place an undue burden upon
such commerce, he may apply to the license assessor and collector for an
adjustment of the fee so that it shall not be discriminatory, unreasonable or
unfair as to such commerce. Such application may be made before, at, or within
six (6) months after payment of the prescribed license fee. The applicant
shall, by affidavit and supporting testimony, show his method of business and
the gross volume or estimated gross volume of business and such other
information as the license assessor and collector may deem necessary in order
to determine the extent, if any, of such undue burden on such commerce. The
license assessor and collector shall then conduct an investigation, comparing
applicant's business with other business of like nature and shall make findings
of fact from which he shall determine whether the fee fixed by this title is
discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair as to applicant's business and shall
recommend to the governing body a license fee for the applicant in an amount
that the applicant should pay, the governing body shall fix the license fee in
such amount. If the regular license fee has already been paid, the governing
body shall order a refund of the amount over and above the fee fixed by the
governing body. In fixing the fee to be charged, the license assessor and
collector shall have the power to base the fee upon a percentage of gross
sales, or employees, or may use any other method which will assure that the fee
assessed shall be uniform with that assessed on business of like nature. (1980
Code § 9-125)
   D.   Schedule: There is hereby imposed and levied a fee in such amount as
established by resolution of the town council on the business, location, trade,
calling or profession on every person engaged in a business within the town.
(1980 Code § 9-211; amd. 2010 Code)
3-1-7: CERTIFICATE OF LICENSE:
All certificates of license shall be signed by the mayor, attested by the town
clerk, or designee, and shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name of the person or business to whom such certificate has been
issued.
   B.   The type of license and the class of such license if licenses are
divided into classes.
   C.   The term of the license with the commencing date and the date of its
expiration.
   D.   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
conducted. (1980 Code § 9-117; amd. 2010 Code)
3-1-8: RECIPROCAL RECOGNITION OF LICENSES:
   A.   No license shall be required for operation of any vehicle or equipment
in the town when:
      1.   Such vehicle is merely passing through the town.
      2.   Such vehicle is used exclusively in intercity or interstate
commerce.
   B.   No license shall be required by this title of any person whose only
business activity in the town is the mere delivery in the town of property sold
by him at a regular place of business maintained by him outside the town where:
      1.   Such person's business is at the time of such delivery licensed by
the Utah municipality or county in which such place of business is situated;
and
      2.   The authority licensing such business grants to licensees of the
town making deliveries within its jurisdiction the same privileges, upon
substantially the same terms, as are granted by this section; and
      3.   Neither the property delivered nor any of the facilities by which it
was manufactured, produced or processed are subject to inspection by authority
of the town for compliance with health or sanitary standards prescribed by the
town; and
      4.   The truck or other conveyance by which such delivery is made
prominently displays at all times a license plate or symbol issued by the said
licensing authority to evidence such business license. Such plate or symbol
shall identify the licensing authority by which it is issued, shall indicate
that it evidences a license issued thereby, and shall specify the year or term
for which it is effective.
   C.   The town clerk shall, at the request of any person, certify a copy of
this section to any municipality or county of the state to which a copy has not
previously been certified. (1980 Code § 9-123)
3-1-9: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every certificate of license issued under this title shall be posted by the
licensee in a conspicuous place upon the wall of the building, room or office
of the place of business so that the same may be easily seen. When such
certificate of license has expired, it shall be removed by the licensee from
such place in which it has been posted, and no certificate of license which is
not in force and effect shall be permitted to remain posted upon the wall or
any part of any room within the place of business. If the licensee's business
is such that a license cannot be displayed due to the transient or mobile
nature of the business, then the licensee shall carry the license on his person
ready to be shown on request by an authorized officer during all such time or
times while the licensee is engaged in or pursuing the business for which a
license is granted. (1980 Code § 9-118; amd. 2010 Code)
3-1-10: TRANSFER PROHIBITED:
No license granted or issued under any ordinance of the town shall be assigned
or transferred to any other person. It shall not be deemed to authorize any
person other than therein named to do business or to authorize any other
business, calling, trade or profession than is therein named unless by
permission of the governing body. (1980 Code § 9-119)
3-1-11: BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS:
A separate license must be obtained for each separate place of business in the
town and each license shall authorize the licensee to engage only in the
business licensed thereby at the location or in the manner designated in such
license; provided, that warehouses and distributing places used in connection
with or incident to a business licensed under this chapter shall not be deemed
to be separate places of business or branch establishments. (1980 Code § 9-121)
3-1-12: JOINT LICENSE:
   Whenever any person is engaged in two (2) or more businesses at the same
location within the town, such person shall not be required to obtain separate
licenses for conducting each of such business, but shall be issued one license
which shall be computed at the highest license fee applicable to any of the
businesses being conducted at such location. The sale of alcoholic beverages or
any other product or service requiring an additional license shall be subject
to such additional licensing requirement. Where two (2) or more persons conduct
separate businesses at the same location, each such person shall obtain a
license for such business and pay the required license fee for such business.
(1980 Code § 9-122; amd. Ord. 2024-O-5, 6-20-2024)
3-1-13: REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Conditions: Any license issued pursuant to the provisions of this code
or of any ordinance of the town may be revoked and any application denied by
the governing body because of:
      1.   Failure of the licensee or applicant to comply with the conditions
and requirements of this code or any ordinance of the town.
      2.   Unlawful activities conducted or permitted on the premises where the
business is conducted.
   B.   Notice: Prior to the revocation of a license or denial of an
application to renew a business license, the licensee or applicant shall be
given a notice which shall state in substance that the governing body intends
to revoke the business license or deny the application to renew, together with
the reason or reasons therefor, at a regular or special meeting of the
governing body (which shall be at least 10 days and not more than 30 days from
the date notice is sent), and that the licensee or applicant has a right to
appear, to be represented by counsel, to hear the evidence against him, to
cross examine witnesses and to present evidence as to why the license should
not be revoked or the application denied.
   C.   Applicability: The preceding subsection shall not apply to applications
for licenses for businesses which have not previously been licensed by the
town, and such applicants need only be informed that their application has been
denied. (1980 Code § 9-120)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Classifications Of Licenses
3-2-4: Application For License
3-2-5: Qualifications Of Licensee
3-2-6: Department Of Health Permit
3-2-7: Transfer Of License
3-2-8: Inspection Of Premises
3-2-9: Lawful Purchase
3-2-10: Renewal Of License
3-2-11: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-2-12: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings specified
in the Utah alcoholic beverage control act, unless a different meaning is
clearly evident.
(1980 Code § 9-412; amd. Ord. 2024-O-5, 6-20-2024)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a business which allows
customers, members, guests, visitors or other persons to purchase, consume, or
store alcoholic beverages on the premises of the business without first having
procured a license therefor from the town and paid the license fee required by
this chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell alcoholic beverages after
the revocation of the license issued pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   A separate liquor license issued by the Town shall be required and
conspicuously displayed for each separate Place of Business as well as for each
type of alcoholic beverage service or sale (if multiple occur within one Place
of Business) in accordance with the provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act and this Title. No liquor license may be transferred, assigned, or
subleased in any manner.
(1980 Code § 9-411; amd. Ord. 2024-O-5, 6-20-2024)
3-2-3: CLASSIFICATIONS OF LICENSES:
   Business licenses issued under this chapter shall match the classification
and type issued under the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act or successor
statute as closely as possible given local context and be known as: a) the on-
premise beer retailer license; b) the restaurant liquor license; c) the bar
establishment liquor license; d) the retail off-premise beer retailer license,
and e) the on-premise banquet license.
   A.   On-Premise Beer Retailer License: The on-premise beer retailer license
shall entitle the licensee to sell beer in accordance with the provisions of
state law governing its license of same name, which is adopted herein by
reference, and with other relevant ordinances of the town.
   B.   Restaurant Liquor License: The restaurant liquor license shall entitle
the licensee to sell alcoholic beverages in accordance with the provisions of
state law governing its license of same name, which is adopted herein by
reference, and with other relevant ordinances of the town.
   C.   Bar Establishment Liquor License: The bar establishment liquor license
shall entitle the licensee to sell alcoholic beverages in accordance with the
provisions of state law governing its license of same name, which is adopted
herein by reference, and with other relevant ordinances of the town.
   D.   Off-Premise Beer Retailer License: The off-premise beer retailer
license shall entitle the licensee to sell beer in closed containers for
consumption off of the premises of the licensee. The town imposes no
restriction as to the hours during which beer may be sold under this license
nor as to the days on which beer may be sold; however, the licensee shall
conform to all laws and regulations of the state applicable to retail off
premises sales of beer in containers, including minimum age for employees who
sell beer.
   E.   On-Premise Banquet License: The on-premise banquet license shall
entitle the licensee to the storage, sale, service, and consumption of
alcoholic beverages for banquet activities on the premises of a hotel, resort
facility, sports center, or convention center in accordance with the state law
governing it's license of the same name, which is adopted herein by reference,
and with other relevant ordinances of the town.
   F.   Single Event Permit: A Single Event Permit is required for sales of any
alcoholic beverage at a public or private event involving a cash bar, hosted
bar, or that is open to the public and does not fall under another license
type. (Ord. 1993-O-1, 1-14-1993; amd. Ord. 2024-O-5, 6-20-2024; Ord. 2024-O-8,
10-9-2024)
3-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   All applications for licenses authorized by this chapter shall be
verified and shall be filed with the town clerk. The application must state the
applicant's name in full and that they understand and have read and complied
with the requirements and possesses the qualifications specified in the
alcoholic beverage control act and this chapter.
      2.   The application must be subscribed by the applicant, who shall
attest the facts therein contained are true. (1980 Code § 9-417)
   B.   Fee To Accompany Application: Applications provided for in this chapter
shall be accompanied by the fees in the fee schedule. The fee shall be returned
to the applicant if the application is denied.
(1980 Code § 9-415; amd. Ord. 2024-O-5, 6-20-2024)
3-2-5: QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE:
   No license shall be granted to any retailer, business, brewer, or wholesaler
to sell alcoholic beverages unless the license applicant shall be over the age
of twenty one (21) years and a citizen of the United States. No license shall
be granted to anyone who has been convicted of a felony or of any violation of
any law of the state or provision of the ordinances of the town relating to
intoxicating liquors, or of keeping a gambling or disorderly house, or who has
pleaded guilty to or has forfeited bail on a charge of having committed a
felony or of having violated any such law or ordinance, or to any partnership,
any member of which lacks any of the qualifications set forth in this chapter
or to any corporation of which lacks any of such qualifications.
(1980 Code § 9-420; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2024-O-5, 6-20-2024)
3-2-6: DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH PERMIT:
   No license under this chapter shall be issued until the applicant therefor
shall have first procured from the department of health a permit which shall
show that the premises to be licensed is in a sanitary condition and that the
equipment used in the storage, distribution or sale of alcoholic beverages
complies with all the health regulations of the town, the county and of the
state.
(1980 Code § 9-422; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2024-O-5, 6-20-2024)
3-2-7: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be transferable, and if
revoked by the town council, the fee paid by the licensee to the town for the
license shall be forfeited to the town.
(1980 Code § 9-423; amd. Ord. 2024-O-5, 6-20-2024)
3-2-8: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
   A.   Authority: All licensed premises shall be subject to inspection by any
officer, agent or peace officer of the town or the Utah Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Services , or the state board of health, and every licensee shall, at
the request of the state board of health, furnish to it samples of alcoholic
beverages which it shall have for sale.
   B.   Revocation: Any license granted pursuant to this chapter may be revoked
on a finding by the town manager that the licensee has had ten (10) days' or
more notice from the state board of health that the licensee is violating one
or more health ordinances, rules or regulations of the town or of the state
division of health and has failed to comply with such health ordinance, rule or
regulation.
   C.   Close Of Business: The town manger may direct the town marshal to close
down any business licensed under this chapter where the state board of health
has determined that continued operation of the business presents an imminent
danger to the health of the community or persons who may eat or drink at the
business.
(1980 Code § 9-426; amd. Ord. 2024-O-5, 6-20-2024)
3-2-9: LAWFUL PURCHASE:
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to purchase or acquire or to have or
possess for the purpose of sale or distribution, any alcoholic beverage except
that which it shall have lawfully purchased from a brewer or wholesaler
licensed under the provisions of the Utah alcoholic beverage control act.
(1980 Code § 9-416; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2024-O-5, 6-20-2024)
3-2-10: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   All applications for renewal licenses filed by the holders of existing
licenses shall be filed with the town clerk at least thirty (30) days prior to
the expiration date of the license. Any person who fails to file such
application within the time limit shall close the licensed premises on the
expiration date of the license and shall keep the premises closed for any and
all business for the sale of alcoholic beverages until the date the new license
is issued by the town clerk.
(1980 Code § 9-419; amd. Ord. 2024-O-5, 6-20-2024)
3-2-11: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority: The town council may, after a hearing, uphold an action on
any alcoholic beverage license on a finding by it that the licensee or its
officers, agents or employees have violated any provision of this chapter or
any ordinance of the town, whether now or hereafter enacted, which in any way
relates to the operation of the business or the safety of the public.
   B.   Hearing: A hearing may be requested by any person:
      1.   That is denied or refused a alcoholic beverage license by any
officer, agent or employee of the town.
      2.   Whose alcoholic beverage license is revoked, suspended, restricted,
qualified or limited from that for which it was first issued.
   C.   Request For Hearing: The request for hearing must be made in writing to
the mayor or town clerk and made within thirty (30) days following the date
notice denying, suspending, refusing, removing, qualifying, restricting or
revoking the alcoholic beverage license is mailed by the town to the applicant
or license holder at the address as it appears on the application or license.
   D.   Time And Place; Witnesses; Decision: Following receipt of a request for
hearing, the town council shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the
time and place the hearing is to be held. At the hearing, the aggrieved party
shall have the right to hear and examine any witnesses the town may produce to
support its decision and to present its own evidence in support of its
contention. The town council shall, within ten (10) days following the
conclusion of the hearing, in writing, inform the person who requested the
hearing of the decision of the town council.
   E.   Limitations Of Hearing: This section shall not be construed so as to
afford any aggrieved party more than one hearing before the town council, nor
shall the hearing provided in this section apply to any criminal complaint or
proceeding.
(1980 Code § 9-427; amd. Ord. 2024-O-5, 6-20-2024)
3-2-12: PENALTY:
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code.
(2010 Code; amd. Ord. 2024-O-5, 6-20-2024)
CHAPTER 3
HOME OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Defined
3-3-2: Permit Required
3-3-3: Application For Permit
3-3-4: Permit Issuance And Findings
3-3-5: Term Of Permit; Renewal
3-3-6: Limitations
3-3-7: Revocation Or Discontinuance Of Permit
3-3-8: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINED:
"Home occupation" means and includes all activities engaged in within a
residential building within the Town, carried on for the purpose of gain or
economic benefit, except:
   A.   The acts of employees rendering service to employers shall not be
included in the term "business" unless otherwise specifically provided; and
   B.   Activities carried on for the purpose of gain or economic benefit that
are operated only occasionally and by an individual who is under eighteen (18)
years of age shall not be included in the term "home occupation". (Ord. 2017-O-
3, 11-9-2017)
3-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
The conduct of a home occupation business, where permitted as an accessory use
by the provisions of this Code, shall be subject to issuance of a home
occupation permit by the Town Clerk or designee (hereafter referred to as the
"Administrator"). Application shall be made on a form prescribed by the
Administrator, and shall be accompanied by a statement fully describing the
nature of the home occupation, including hours of operation, equipment to be
used, anticipated number of customers, and other features of the business.
(2010 Code)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
An application for a home occupation business provided by the Administrator
shall be supported by documents, maps, plans and other material as requested by
the Administrator to evaluate the proposal. Application materials may include,
but not limited to, floor plans, site plans, parking and traffic circulation
plans, verification of liability insurance and title reports. (2010 Code)
3-3-4: PERMIT ISSUANCE AND FINDINGS:
After review of the application, the Administrator may issue a home occupation
permit if he/she finds that the proposed use will conform to the requirements
of this chapter. The permit may be subject to such conditions as the
Administrator deems necessary to guarantee operation of a home occupation in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter and compatibility with other
uses in the vicinity. The Administrator shall deny the application if he/she
finds that the proposed use will not conform to the provisions of this chapter,
or would be injurious or detrimental to other properties in the vicinity. (2010
Code)
3-3-5: TERM OF PERMIT; RENEWAL:
Home occupation permits, when issued, shall be for a limited time period, not
exceeding one year. Permits may be renewable upon application, subject to such
regulations as shall be in effect at the time of application for renewal. The
Administrator shall make the same findings with respect to an application for
renewal as for the original issuance of a home occupation permit. (2010 Code)
3-3-6: LIMITATIONS:
Where permitted, home occupations shall be subject to the following
limitations:
   A.   The home occupation must be clearly incidental and secondary to the
primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes and shall not change the
residential character of the property and neighborhood. The home occupation
shall not provide any visible evidence from the exterior that the building is
being used for any other purpose than that of a residence, with the exception
of one nonilluminated nameplate, with a sign face of one square foot, stating
the name of the business or occupant and mounted flat against the building,
shall be allowed.
   B.   The use shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling. A home child
daycare facility shall be exempt from this requirement to allow outdoor play
areas.
   C.   The home occupation shall not unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet
of the neighborhood, including, but not limited to, interference with
television, radio or other electronic reception by reason of design, materials,
construction and general operation of the business. There shall be no noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat or glare noticeable at or beyond the
property line as a result of the home occupation. Explosive or combustible
materials shall not be stored for a home occupation.
   D.   There shall be no exterior storage on the premises of material used in
the home occupation.
   E.   The total floor area used for the home occupation shall not exceed one-
fourth (1/4) of the gross residential floor area of the dwelling, including the
garage or accessory structures.
   F.   The home occupation shall not cause a demand for Municipal or utility
services or community facilities in excess of those usually and customarily
provided for residential uses.
   G.   A home occupation shall not generate significant vehicular traffic in
excess of that typically generated by residential dwellings and shall not
interfere with parking, access or other normal activities on adjacent
properties, or with other units in a multi-family residential development.
   H.   The home occupation work conducted at the residence shall not involve
any employees other than persons lawfully living in the residence.
   I.   The residence must be the residence of the applicant.
   J.   For home occupation businesses, no more than one client may be served
at one time and no more than one place of vehicular parking shall be occupied
by a client at any time.
   K.   Delivery of merchandise, goods or equipment to the site of the home
occupation shall be made by a vehicle typically employed in residential
deliveries and shall not interfere with parking, access or other normal
activities on adjacent properties, or with other units in a multi-family
residential development. No deliveries by semitractor or trailer truck shall be
permitted. Loading and deliveries to the site of the home occupation shall be
limited to the hours between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. (2010 Code)
3-3-7: REVOCATION OR DISCONTINUANCE OF PERMIT:
A home occupation permit may be revoked by the Administrator if he/she
determines that the provisions of this chapter or the limitations prescribed as
a condition of the permit are being violated. A home occupation permit shall
become void if not used within two (2) months of issuance, or if the use for
which it is issued is discontinued for a continuous period of six (6) months.
(2010 Code)
3-3-8: PENALTY:
It shall be a Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, for any person to transact, engage in or carry on any
business, home occupation, trade or profession, without first receiving the
class or type of license or permit required by the Town. (Ord. 2017-O-3, 11-9-
2017)
CHAPTER 4
TAXICABS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Application For License
3-4-4: Exemption Certificate From Public Service Commission; Liability
Insurance
3-4-5: Fee For License
3-4-6: Transfer Of License
3-4-7: Responsibility Of Holder
3-4-8: Rates Of Hire
3-4-9: Vehicle Requirements
3-4-10: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-4-11: Enforcement
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the meanings defined
and set forth below:
FARE: That portion of the charge for hire of a taxicab which is automatically
calculated by the taximeter through the operation of the mileage and time
mechanism.
HOLDER: A person to whom a license has been issued.
PERSON: Includes an individual, a corporation or other legal entity, a
partnership and any unincorporated association.
TAXICAB: A motor vehicle used in the transportation of passengers for hire over
the public streets of the town of Alta, Utah, and not operated over a fixed
route or upon a fixed schedule, but is subject to contract for hire by persons
desiring special trips from one point to another. It does not include an
automobile rental licensed under any other section of this code. (1980 Code
§ 9-710)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate or permit a taxicab owned or controlled by him to be
operated as a vehicle for hire within the corporate limits of the town without
first having obtained a license from the town for such activity. For the
purpose of this chapter, the term "operate for hire within the corporate limits
of the town" shall not include the transporting, by a taxicab properly licensed
in a jurisdiction outside the corporate limits of the town, of a passenger or
passengers for hire where any trip shall originate with the passenger or
passengers being picked up outside of the corporate limits of the town and
where the destination is either within or beyond the town corporate limits. The
term "operate for hire within the corporate limits of the town" shall include
the soliciting or picking up of a passenger or passengers within the corporate
limits of the town whether the destination shall be within or outside of the
corporate limits of said town. (1980 Code § 9-711)
3-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for licenses under this chapter shall follow the same procedure
and be in the same form as applications for business licenses as required by
this code. The obtaining of a license under this chapter shall be in lieu of
and shall be a replacement for the requirement of a general business license as
otherwise required by the town. (1980 Code § 9-712)
3-4-4: EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE FROM PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION; LIABILITY
INSURANCE:
No taxicab license, as hereunder required, shall be issued or continued in
operation unless there is on file with the town clerk a certificate of
exemption granted by the state public service commission. Proof of said
certificate of exemption shall also be considered proof that there is in full
force and effect a policy of insurance conditioned to pay any final judgment
against the holder of said taxicab license for bodily injury to or death of any
person resulting from the negligent operation, maintenance or use of taxicabs
under such license, or for loss or damage to the property of others in the
amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for bodily injury to or
death of one person in connection with one accident, and in the amount of three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for injuries to or death of more than
one person for one accident, and for damage to the property of others in the
amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for one accident. In the event
the regulations of the public service commission shall be changed and such
certificate of exemption shall not be considered as proof of insurance on the
part of a holder of a license granted hereunder, said holder shall be required
to file with the town clerk a certificate of insurance giving evidence that
there is in full force and effect a policy of insurance as set out hereinabove.
(1980 Code § 9-713)
3-4-5: FEE FOR LICENSE:
No license as provided hereunder shall be issued or continued in operation
unless the holder thereof has paid an annual fee of forty dollars ($40.00) for
the right to engage in the taxicab business. The payment of said fee shall
entitle the holder of the license to operate a maximum of five (5) vehicles
within the corporate limits of the town at any one given time. An annual fee of
five dollars ($5.00) shall be paid for each additional vehicle over five (5)
which the holder of the license intends to or does operate within the corporate
limits of the town at any one given time. Said fees shall be for the year
beginning November 1 and ending October 31 and shall be in addition to any
other fees or charges established by proper authority and applicable to said
holder of the vehicle or vehicles under his operation and control. (1980 Code
§ 9-714)
3-4-6: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
No taxicab license granted hereunder may be sold, assigned, mortgaged, leased
or otherwise transferred or encumbered without the formal consent of the town
council. (1980 Code § 9-715)
3-4-7: RESPONSIBILITY OF HOLDER:
The holder shall not be relieved of any responsibility of or compliance with
the provisions of this chapter whether he leases or rents taxicabs to drivers,
or whether he pays salary, wages or any other form of compensation. (1980 Code
§ 9-716)
3-4-8: RATES OF HIRE:
   A.   Established: An owner or driver of a taxicab licensed hereunder may
establish and charge mileage rates lower than, but shall not establish and
charge any mileage rate for the use of a taxicab greater than the following for
the following destinations:
      1.   Alta to Salt Lake City international airport: Twenty seven dollars
($27.00) for one to four (4) passengers and seven dollars ($7.00) per each
additional passenger over four (4).
      2.   Alta to Snowbird: Seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00)
P.M., three dollars ($3.00) for one to four (4) passengers and fifty cents
($0.50) per each additional passenger over four (4); five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., four dollars ($4.00) for one to four (4)
passengers and seventy five cents ($0.75) per each additional passenger over
four (4). (1980 Code § 9-717)
   B.   Display Of Fare Rates: Every taxicab operated within the town shall
display on the inside of the taxicab in such a manner as to be plainly visible
to all passengers, a schedule of the maximum rates in effect for the taxicab
for the destinations given herein, together with a schedule of all rates to be
charged for the use of said taxicab other than those set out in subsection A of
this section. (1980 Code § 9-718)
   C.   Receipts: The driver of any taxicab shall, upon demand by the
passenger, render to such passenger a receipt for the amount charged by said
taxicab, on which shall be the name of the owner, license number or motor
carrier, amount of charges and date of transaction. (1980 Code § 9-719)
3-4-9: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Identifying Design On Outside Of Vehicle: Each taxicab operated within
the corporate limits of the town shall bear on the outside of said vehicle, in
at least two (2) places plainly visible to the public, in painted letters not
less than five-sixteenths inch (5/16") stroke and more than two and one-fourth
inches (21/4") in height, the name of the holder of the license granted
hereunder and the company number, together with the exempt number granted to
said holder by the state public service commission. In addition, and not in
substitution of the other requirements of this section, each such vehicle may
bear an identifying design approved by the town council. (1980 Code § 9-720)
   B.   Snow Tires And Chains: At all times between November 1 and April 30 of
each and every winter season, each taxicab operated within the town pursuant to
this chapter shall have snow tires on each such vehicle and snow tire chains in
each such vehicle. (1980 Code § 9-721)
3-4-10: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The town council is hereby given the authority to suspend or revoke any taxicab
license issued under this chapter for a holder or driver failing or refusing to
comply with the provisions of this chapter. However, a license may not be
suspended or revoked unless the driver or holder has been given notice and has
had an opportunity to present evidence in his behalf. Notice of such hearing
shall be deemed to be sufficient if it is mailed to the address designated on
the taxicab license application at least ten (10) days prior to said hearing.
No driver or holder whose license has been revoked shall again be licensed in
the town except upon presentation of reasons satisfactory to the town council.
Every driver and holder licensed under this chapter shall comply with all town,
state and federal laws. Failure to do so will justify the suspension or
revocation of a license by the town council. (1980 Code § 9-722)
3-4-11: ENFORCEMENT:
The town marshal is hereby given the authority and instructed to watch and
observe the conduct of holders and drivers operating under this chapter. Upon
discovering a violation of the provisions of this chapter, in addition to
regular criminal proceedings, the town marshal shall report the same to the
town council, which will order or take appropriate action respecting the
licenses of the persons involved. (1980 Code § 9-723)
CHAPTER 5
TEMPORARY OR TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Defined
3-5-2: License Required
3-5-3: Exemptions
3-5-4: Application For License; Procedure
3-5-5: Fee For License; Exceptions
3-5-6: Limitations On Issuance
3-5-7: State Sales Tax Registration; Bond Required
3-5-8: Use Of Public Property
3-5-9: Noise; Signage
3-5-10: Exhibition Of License Required; Disclosures
3-5-1: DEFINED:
A "temporary merchant" or a "transient merchant" shall include any person,
whether as owner, agent, cosignee or employee, and whether or not a resident of
the town, who engages in a temporary business of contracting for the provision
of services, or the selling and delivering of goods, wares and merchandise
within the town and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or
occupies any structure, (temporary or permanent), vehicle, building or
premises, for the conduct of such business; provided, that such definition
shall not be construed to include any person, firm or corporation who does not
sell from stock, but exhibits samples for the purpose of securing orders for
future delivery only. (Ord. 2007-O-1, 5-10-2007; amd. 2010 Code)
3-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for a "transient" or "temporary merchant", as defined in section
3-5-1 of this chapter, to engage in or transact business within the town
without first obtaining a license as herein provided. (Ord. 2007-O-1, 5-10-
2007)
3-5-3: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall apply to:
   A.   Persons soliciting or taking orders exclusively from the trade or
established wholesale or retail dealers, for the delivery of goods, services,
wares or merchandise.
   B.   Sales of services, goods, wares or merchandise at an event sponsored by
or sanctioned by any governmental entity. (Ord. 2007-O-1, 5-10-2007)
3-5-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; PROCEDURE:
Any temporary or transient merchant desiring to engage or transact business
within the town shall file at least ten (10) days prior to conducting business
an application for licensure with the business license official on a form
provided by the business license official, which application shall include the
name of the merchant, the location where the business shall be conducted, the
kind of business, the requested dates of operation, the license fee, and other
such information as the town may require. Upon receipt of an application, the
business license official shall refer the application to the town marshal
department and/or any other department to conduct a review, inspection or
investigation as the official deems necessary for the protection of the public
good. If, as a result of such investigation, the character and business
reputation of the applicant appear satisfactory and all other departmental
requirements are met, the business license official shall issue the license.
(Ord. 2007-O-1, 5-10-2007)
3-5-5: FEE FOR LICENSE; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The fee levied on the business, trade, calling or profession of every
person engaged in a business within the town shall be determined by the town
council by resolution.
   B.   If the applicant is a nonprofit organization: 1) with proof provided of
its nonprofit status in accordance with the internal revenue code; and 2) where
not less than ten percent (10%) of the proceeds of such sale shall be retained
by the applicant; and 3) where the services, goods, wares and merchandise is
nonbusiness related personal property sold by individuals not regularly engaged
in a full time basis in the business of selling, manufacturing, distributing or
providing such services, goods, wares and merchandise, then there shall be no
fee. (Ord. 2007-O-1, 5-10-2007)
3-5-6: LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE:
   A.   Number Of Days Permitted: No person shall receive a temporary license
for more than a total of eight (8) days in any one calendar year, nor for any
period that exceeds seven (7) consecutive days.
   B.   Number Of Persons; Nontransferable: No license shall be valid for more
than one person, nor shall a license be transferable.
   C.   Area Approved: The proposed licensed premises must be located in an
area approved for "commercial use", as defined in the general plan (November
2005) or the zoning ordinance.
   D.   Location: The business must be located and conducted entirely on
private property, except as otherwise provided in section
3-5-8 of this chapter, and must not be located and conducted within twenty feet
(20') of any road, street, highway or alley. The business shall be in a
location that shall not create a traffic hazard and shall provide temporary
sanitary facilities within four hundred feet (400') of the proposed location.
   E.   Parking: No business operations shall encumber or impede off street
parking without the prior written consent of the town. (Ord. 2007-O-1, 5-10-
2007)
3-5-7: STATE SALES TAX REGISTRATION; BOND REQUIRED:
No license shall be issued until the applicant has provided to the business
license official:
   A.   A copy of the current state sales tax registration issued in the name
of the applicant; and
   B.   A cash bond or a bond executed by the applicant, as a principal, and
two (2) individual sureties or one corporate surety upon whom service of
process may be made in the state, running to the town in the sum of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), the bond to be conditioned that the applicant
shall comply fully with the provisions of the ordinances of the town and the
statutes of the state regulating and concerning the sale of services, goods,
wares and merchandise. Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the
town to the use of the aggrieved person. Any person desiring to file an action
on the bond shall, simultaneously with the filing of the complaint, notify the
town clerk in writing of the pending action. The bond shall be refunded to the
applicant six (6) months after the expiration of the applicant's license,
unless cause for action thereon has been presented to the town clerk. The form
of such bond shall be approved by the town attorney. (Ord. 2007-O-1, 5-10-2007)
3-5-8: USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No public property, including any park, street, sidewalk or right of way
therefor shall be utilized at any time for sales of any kind, with the
exception of materials, or other such activities as are protected under the
first amendment of the constitution of the United States; provided however,
that the provisions of this section shall not apply to nonprofit or benevolent
organizations approved in advance by the town council to sell items at an event
occurring near or in a town park, nor during the specified period of closure,
to those portions of public streets and adjacent sidewalks and rights of way
which may be officially closed to vehicular traffic from time to time by order
of the town council. (Ord. 2007-O-1, 5-10-2007)
3-5-9: NOISE; SIGNAGE:
No licensee, or anyone on the licensee's behalf, shall shout, make an outcry,
blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any other sound device for the purpose of
attracting attention to its business. Signage is allowed but must be limited to
two (2) pieces. The size of each sign may not exceed a surface area of ten feet
(10'). A signage plan must be included in the application before it can be
approved. (Ord. 2007-O-1, 5-10-2007)
3-5-10: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE REQUIRED; DISCLOSURES:
The license shall be posted conspicuously in the place of business of the
licensee. A separate license must be obtained for each business location. The
applicant shall include as part of the application a statement in writing
concerning any express or implied warranties that will be made to purchasers of
the services, goods, wares or merchandise to be sold, or a statement that no
such warranties will be given. Any person to whom a license is issued under
this chapter shall also conspicuously post a statement concerning warranties as
stated in the preceding sentence at the licensed premises in print consisting
of characters not less that one-fourth inch (1/4") in height. (Ord. 2007-O-1,
5-10-2007)
CHAPTER 6
TAXES
ARTICLE A.  SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-6A-1: Title
3-6A-2: Purpose
3-6A-3: Tax Imposed
3-6A-4: Penalty
3-6A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF
ALTA. (Ord. 1990-O-3, 2-8-1990, eff. 1-1-1990)
3-6A-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Authorization Of Tax: The forty eighth session of the Utah legislature
authorized the counties and municipalities of the state to enact sales and use
tax ordinances imposing a one percent (1%) tax.
   B.   Tax Established: It is the purpose of this article to conform the sales
and use tax of the town to conform to the requirements of the sales and use tax
act, Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as currently amended. (Ord.
1990-O-3, 2-8-1990, eff. 1-1-1990)
3-6A-3: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Imposed:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the town at the rate of one percent
(1%).
      2.   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the town of tangible personal property from any retailer on or
after the operative date hereof at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales
price of the property.
      3.   For the purposes of this article, all retail sales shall be presumed
to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out of state designation. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed and adopted by the
state tax commission. "Public utilities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated
title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within any
county or municipality where public utilities are rendered, but the place of
sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable to the town
shall be as determined by the state tax commission pursuant to an appropriate
formula and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it.
(Ord. 1990-O-3, 2-8-1990, eff. 1-1-1990)
   B.   Adoption Of State Codes; Provisions:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the sales and use tax act, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, insofar as
they relate to sales taxes, excepting section 59-12-101 thereof, are hereby
adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set forth herein. (Ord.
1990-O-3, 2-8-1990, eff. 1-1-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this town shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection B
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the town for the word
"state" when the word is used as part of the title of the state tax commission,
or of the constitution of the state of Utah, nor shall the name of the town be
substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the state tax
commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article.
      3.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this section.
      4.   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by
which the tax is measured:
         a.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer.
         b.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use
tax has become due by reason of the sales transaction to any other municipality
and any county in the state under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act. (Ord.
1990-O-3, 2-8-1990, eff. 1-1-1990)
3-6A-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1990-O-3, 2-8-1990, eff. 1-1-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE B.  MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-6B-1: Purpose
3-6B-2: Definitions
3-6B-3: Tax Imposed
3-6B-4: Exemptions To Tax
3-6B-5: Existing Franchise Agreements
3-6B-6: Tax Collection
3-6B-7: State Statutes Incorporated
3-6B-8: Additional License Or Reporting Not Required
3-6B-1: PURPOSE:
It is the intent of the town of Alta to adopt the municipal energy sales and
use tax, pursuant to, and in conformance with, Utah Code Annotated section 10-
1-301 et seq., the municipal energy sales and use tax act. (Ord. 2012-O-3, 6-
21-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
3-6B-2: DEFINITIONS:
CONSUMER: A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject to
the municipal energy sales and use tax.
CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE: A. A fee:
      1.Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
      2.That is consideration for the franchise agreement; or
   B.A fee similar to subsection A of this definition; or
   C.Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
DELIVERED VALUE: A. The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for
sale or use in the municipality and includes:
      1.The value of the energy itself; and
      2.Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, service charges,
or other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in usable form to
each class of customer in the municipality.
   B."Delivered value" does not include the amount of a tax paid under Utah
Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12 et seq.
ENERGY SUPPLIER: A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons
supplying a de minimus amount of taxable energy, if such persons are excluded
by rule promulgated by the state tax commission.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise or an ordinance, contract, or agreement
granting a franchise.
FRANCHISE TAX: A. A franchise tax;
   B.A tax similar to a franchise tax; or
   C.Any combinations of subsection A or B of this definition.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, this state,
any county, city, municipality, district, or other local governmental entity of
the state, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
SALE: Any transfer of title, exchange, or barter, conditional or otherwise, in
any manner, of taxable energy for a consideration. It includes:
   A.Installment and credit sales;
   B.Any closed transaction constituting a sale;
   C.Any transaction under which right to acquire, use or consume taxable
energy is granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be taxable
if an outright sale were made.
STORAGE: Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in this town for any
purpose except sale in the regular course of business.
TAXABLE ENERGY: Gas and electricity.
USE: A. The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the
ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy.
   B."Use" does not include the sale, display, demonstration, or trial of the
taxable energy in the regular course of business and held for resale. (Ord.
2012-O-3, 6-21-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
3-6B-3: TAX IMPOSED:
Beginning at one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M., October 1, 2012,
there is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this article, a tax on
every sale or use of taxable energy made within the town of Alta equaling six
percent (6%) of the delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. This
tax shall be known as the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   A.   The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the taxable
energy to the consumer.
   B.   The tax shall be in addition to any sales or use tax on taxable energy
imposed by the town of Alta as authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, the sales and use tax act. (Ord. 2012-O-3, 6-21-2012, eff. 7-1-
2012)
3-6B-4: EXEMPTIONS TO TAX:
   A.   No exemptions are granted from the municipal energy sales and use tax
except as expressly provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b);
notwithstanding an exemption granted by section 59-12-104 of the Utah code.
   B.   The following are exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b):
      1.   Sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel, and special fuels
subject to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      2.   Sales and use of taxable energy that is exempt from taxation under
federal law, the United States constitution, or the Utah constitution;
      3.   Sales and use of taxable energy purchased or stored in the state for
resale;
      4.   Sales or use of taxable energy to a person, if the primary use of
the taxable energy is for use in compounding or producing taxable energy or a
fuel subject to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      5.   Taxable energy brought into the state by a nonresident for the
nonresident's own personal use or enjoyment while within the state, except
taxable energy purchased for use in the state by a nonresident living or
working in the state at the time of purchase;
      6.   The sale or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than as a
fuel or energy; and
      7.   The sale of taxable energy for use outside the boundaries of the
town of Alta.
   C.   The sale, storage, use, or other consumption of taxable energy is
exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax levied by this article,
provided:
      1.   The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a
municipal energy sales or use tax levied by another municipality within the
state authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 3; and
      2.   The town of Alta is paid the difference between the tax paid to the
other municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under this article,
if the tax due under this article exceeds the tax paid to the other
municipality. (Ord. 2012-O-3, 6-21-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
3-6B-5: EXISTING FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS:
   A.   This article shall not alter any existing franchise agreements between
the town of Alta and energy suppliers.
   B.   There is a credit against the tax due from any consumer in the amount
of a contractual franchise fee paid if:
      1.   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the town
of Alta pursuant to a franchise agreement;
      2.   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charge; and
      3.   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise. (Ord. 2012-O-3, 6-
21-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
3-6B-6: TAX COLLECTION:
   A.   An energy supplier shall pay the municipal energy sales and use tax
revenues collected from consumers directly to the town of Alta monthly.
   B.   An energy supplier paying the municipal energy sales and use tax
directly to the town of Alta may deduct any contractual franchise fees
collected by the energy supplier qualifying as a credit and remit the net tax
less any amount the energy supplier retains as authorized by Utah Code
Annotated section 10-1-307(4). (Ord. 2012-O-3, 6-21-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
3-6B-7: STATE STATUTES INCORPORATED:
   A.   Except as herein provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of title 10, chapter 1, part 3, municipal energy sales and
use tax act, as well as this article, all of the provisions of Utah Code
Annotated 1953, title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended, and in force and
effect on the effective date of this article, insofar as they relate to sales
and use taxes, and excepting for the amount of the sales and use taxes levied
therein, are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as if fully set
forth herein.
   B.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated 1953, title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, as amended, the state of Utah is named or referred to as
the "taxing agency", the name of the town of Alta shall be substituted, insofar
as is necessary for the purposes of that part as well as Utah Code Annotated
1953, title 10, chapter 1, part 3, as amended. Nothing in this subsection B
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the town of Alta for the
word "state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state tax
commission or of the constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of the town of
Alta be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of
such a substitution would require action to be taken by or against the town of
Alta or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax commission
in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article.
   C.   Any amendments made to Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part
1, as amended, which would be applicable to the town of Alta for the purposes
of carrying out this article are hereby incorporated herein by reference and
shall be effective upon the date that they are effective as a Utah statute.
(Ord. 2012-O-3, 6-21-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
3-6B-8: ADDITIONAL LICENSE OR REPORTING NOT REQUIRED:
No additional license to collect or report the municipal energy sales and use
tax levied by this article is required, provided the energy supplier collecting
the tax has a license issued under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106. (Ord.
2012-O-3, 6-21-2012, eff. 7-1-2012)
ARTICLE C.  PUBLIC UTILITIES TAX
SECTION:
3-6C-1: Business License Required
3-6C-2: License Tax
3-6C-3: Payment Of Tax
3-6C-4: Tax In Lieu Of Other Charges
3-6C-5: Enforcement
3-6C-1: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
All public utilities engaged in the business of providing telephone service
(hereinafter "public utility"), and persons doing business in competition with
a public utility engaged in the business of providing telephone service, must
obtain from the town a license to do business within the town. It shall be
unlawful for a public utility engaged in the business of providing telephone
service, or person doing business in competition with a public utility engaged
in the business of providing telephone service, to conduct business in the town
without a license or franchise agreement with the town. (Ord. 2001-O-2, 6-21-
2001, eff. 7-1-2001)
3-6C-2: LICENSE TAX:
There is hereby imposed on all public utilities engaged in the business of
providing telephone service who conduct business in the town, and upon persons
who engaged in the business of providing telephone service, a revenue tax in
the amount of six percent (6%) of the revenue derived from the sale of taxable
services within town's corporate limits. The six percent (6%) revenue tax shall
apply to all public utilities engaged in the business of providing telephone
service and their competitors unless by individual franchise agreement a
different revenue tax rate is agreed upon. "Taxable services", as used herein,
shall mean:
   A.   Those utility services that may lawfully be taxed under provisions and
restrictions of Utah Code Annotated sections 10-1-203 and 11-26-1, as they may
be amended from time to time, with the exception of extended area service and
customer access line charges; and
   B.   Those services that are provided in competition with the services
described in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 2001-O-2, 6-21-2001, eff. 7-1-
2001)
3-6C-3: PAYMENT OF TAX:
The revenue tax imposed herein is payable quarterly. Each payment shall be due
on or before the thirtieth day after the end of each calendar quarter for which
the payment is made, and shall be calculated on the amounts billed for taxable
services within the corporate limits of the town for that quarter. (Ord. 2001-
O-2, 6-21-2001, eff. 7-1-2001)
3-6C-4: TAX IN LIEU OF OTHER CHARGES:
The payment of taxes under this article shall be in lieu of all other taxes,
licenses, fees, license fees, license taxes or similar charges, or any
combination thereof, based upon the gross revenues of the entities subject to
the tax, whether under a franchise or otherwise. (Ord. 2001-O-2, 6-21-2001,
eff. 7-1-2001)
3-6C-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Any public utilities engaged in the business of providing telephone service and
persons doing business of providing telephone service and persons doing
business in competition with a public utility engaged in the business of
providing telephone service who fail to obtain the ordained license, or
franchise agreement, necessary to conduct business within the town, shall be
enjoined from conducting business in the town, and shall forfeit any right to
do business within the town. Furthermore, should any public utility, and
persons doing business in competition with a public utility, who is prosecuted
under this article, shall pay all attorney fees incurred in enforcing this
article. (Ord. 2001-O-2, 6-21-2001, eff. 7-1-2001)
ARTICLE D.  RESORT COMMUNITIES TAX
SECTION:
3-6D-1: Finding Of Eligibility
3-6D-2: Applicability
3-6D-3: Tax Imposed
3-6D-3-1:    Additional Tax Imposed
3-6D-4: Exemptions
3-6D-5: Collection Of Tax
3-6D-6: Compliance With State Law
3-6D-7: Penalty
3-6D-1: FINDING OF ELIGIBILITY:
The town council hereby finds that the transient room capacity of the town
(over 450 rooms which can accommodate over 900 visitors) exceeds the 1990
permanent census population of three hundred ninety seven (397), thereby
qualifying the town to impose the "resort communities tax" as set forth in Utah
Code Annotated sections 12-59-401 and 12-59-402, as amended. The town council
further finds that the town has complied with all relevant sections of Utah
Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, and is eligible to impose said tax. (Ord.
1994-O-4, 6-9-1994, eff. 7-1-1994)
3-6D-2: APPLICABILITY:
This article shall apply to any "person" conducting "sales" within the
boundaries of the town, as those terms are defined in Utah Code Annotated
sections 59-12-102 and 59-12-103, as amended. A person currently licensed with
the state pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106, as amended, shall
not be required to obtain another license by reason of this article. (Ord.
1994-O-4, 6-9-1994, eff. 7-1-1994)
3-6D-3: TAX IMPOSED:
From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there shall be
collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale within the town of tangible
personal property, services, meals, lodging, admissions to places of
recreation, entertainment or amusements, utility service and other personal
property taxed under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, at
the rate of one and one tenth percent (1.1%) of the retail selling price. This
tax is in addition to the “local sales and use tax” imposed by the town
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-201 et seq., as amended. (Ord.
1994-O-4, 6-9-1994, eff. 7-1-1994; amd. Ord. 2023-O-4, 6-21-2023)
3-6D-3-1: ADDITIONAL TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Approval Of Tax: Having obtained voter approval, the town hereby
approves the imposition and collection of the additional resort communities
sales tax of one-half percent (1/2%) of the sales and uses described in Utah
Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, and subject to the exemptions found in the
same chapter.
   B.   Collection And Distribution: The tax shall be collected by the state
tax commission, which shall distribute revenues generated from the tax to the
town, charging a fee for said services, as it does for sales and use tax,
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12.
   C.   Costs Incurred: The town shall pay its proportionate share, along with
other applicable municipalities, for any costs incurred by the state in
connection with the collection and administration of the additional resort
communities sales tax which exceed, in any year, the revenues received by the
state from its regular tax collection fees.
   D.   Use Of Revenues: Revenues generated by the additional resort
communities sales tax may be used by the town for general fund purposes. (Ord.
2004-O-1, 3-11-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
3-6D-4: EXEMPTIONS:
Exempt from the tax imposed in section
3-6D-3 of this article shall be wholesale sales, sales of single items for
which consideration paid is two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) or
more, and the sales and uses set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-
104, as amended. (Ord. 1994-O-4, 6-9-1994, eff. 7-1-1994)
3-6D-5: COLLECTION OF TAX:
The tax imposed in section
3-6D-3 of this article shall be collected by the state tax commission and
remitted to the town pursuant to the contract currently in force. The town
council hereby authorizes the mayor to enter into any supplemental contracts
which may be required by the state tax commission for the efficient
administration and collection of this tax. (Ord. 1994-O-4, 6-9-1994, eff. 7-1-
1994)
3-6D-6: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
The town shall remain in compliance with all relevant sections of Utah Code
Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, as they pertain to eligibility to
impose sales taxes and their collection. (Ord. 1994-O-4, 6-9-1994, eff. 7-1-
1994)
3-6D-7: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1994-O-4, 6-9-1994, eff. 7-1-1994)
ARTICLE E.  TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDERS TAX
SECTION:
3-6E-1: Definitions
3-6E-2: Levy Of Tax
3-6E-3: Rate
3-6E-4: Rate Limitation And Exemption
3-6E-5: Effective Date Of Tax Levy
3-6E-6: Changes In Rate Or Repeal Of Tax
3-6E-7: Interlocal Agreement For Collection
3-6E-8: Repeal Of Inconsistent Taxes And Fees
3-6E-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
COMMISSION: The state tax commission.
CUSTOMER: A. The person who is obligated under a contract with a
telecommunications provider to pay for telecommunications service received
under the contract.
B. For purposes of this article, "customer" means:
   1. The person who is obligated under a contract with a telecommunications
provider to pay for telecommunications service received under the contract; or
   2. If the end user is not the person described in subsection B1 of this
definition, the end user of the telecommunications service.
C. "Customer" does not include a reseller:
   1. Of telecommunications service; or
   2. For mobile telecommunications service, of a serving carrier under an
agreement to serve the customer outside the telecommunications provider's
licensed service area.
END USER: The person who uses a telecommunications service. For purposes of
telecommunications service provided to a person who is not an individual, "end
user" means the individual who uses the telecommunications service on behalf of
the person who is provided the telecommunications service.
GROSS RECEIPTS ATTRIBUTED TO THE TOWN: Those gross receipts from a transaction
for telecommunications services that is located within the town for purposes of
sales and use taxes under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, the sales
and use tax act and determined in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section
59-12-207.
GROSS RECEIPTS FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The revenue that a
telecommunications provider receives for telecommunications service rendered,
except for amounts collected or paid as:
A. A tax, fee or charge:
   1. Imposed by a governmental entity;
   2. Separately identified as a tax, fee or charge in the transaction with the
customer for the telecommunications service; and
   3. Imposed only on a telecommunications provider;
B. Sales and use taxes collected by the telecommunications provider from a
customer under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, the sales and use tax
act; or
C. Interest, a fee, or a charge that is charged by a telecommunications
provider on a customer for failure to pay for telecommunications service when
payment is due.
MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
MUNICIPALITY: The town of Alta.
PLACE OF PRIMARY USE: A. For telecommunications service, other than mobile
telecommunications service, means the street address representative of where
the customer's use of the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which
shall be:
   1. The residential street address of the customer; or
   2. The primary business street address of the customer; or
B. For mobile telecommunications service, is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC section 124.
SERVICE ADDRESS: Notwithstanding where a call is billed or paid, means:
   A.   If the location described in this subsection is known, the location of
the telecommunications equipment:
   1. To which a call is charged; and
   2. From which the call originates or terminates;
B. If the location described in subsection A of this definition is not known
but the location described in this subsection is known, the location of the
origination point of the signal of the telecommunications service first
identified by:
   1. The telecommunications system of the telecommunications provider; or
   2. If the system used to transport the signal is not a system of the
telecommunications provider, information received by the telecommunications
provider from its service provider; or
C. If the locations described in subsections A or B of this definition are not
known, the location of a customer's place of primary use.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: A. A person that:
   1. Owns, controls, operates or manages a telecommunications service; or
   2. Engages in an activity described in subsection (10)(a) for the shared use
with or resale to any person of the telecommunications service.
B. A person described in subsection A of this definition is a
telecommunications provider whether or not the public service commission of
Utah regulates:
   1. That person; or
   2. The telecommunications service that the person owns, controls, operates
or manages.
C. "Telecommunications provider" does not include an aggregator as defined in
Utah Code Annotated section 54-8b-2.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: A. "Telephone service", as defined in Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-102, other than mobile telecommunications service, that
originates and terminates within the boundaries of this state; and
B. "Mobile telecommunications service", as defined in Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-102:
   1. That originates and terminates within the boundaries of one state; and
   2. Only to the extent permitted by the mobile telecommunications sourcing
act, 4 USC section 116 et seq.
TOWN: Town of Alta. (Ord. 2004-O-2, 6-17-2004)
3-6E-2: LEVY OF TAX:
There is hereby levied a municipal telecommunications license tax on the gross
receipts from telecommunications service attributed to the town. (Ord. 2004-O-
2, 6-17-2004)
3-6E-3: RATE:
The rate of the tax levy shall be four percent (4%) of the telecommunication
provider's gross receipts from telecommunications service that are attributed
to the town subject to the following:
If the location of a transaction is determined to be other than this town, then
the rate imposed on the gross receipts for telecommunications services shall be
the lower of: a) the rate imposed by the taxing jurisdiction in which the
transaction is located; or b) the rate for nonmobile telecommunication services
shall be the rate imposed by the municipality in which the customer's service
address is located; or c) for mobile telecommunications service, the rate
imposed by the municipality of the customer's primary place of use. (Ord. 2004-
O-2, 6-17-2004)
3-6E-4: RATE LIMITATION AND EXEMPTION:
The rate of this levy shall not exceed four percent (4%) of the
telecommunications provider's gross receipts from telecommunication service
attributed to the town, unless a higher rate is approved by a majority vote of
the voters in the town that vote in:
   A.   A municipal general election;
   B.   A regular general election; or
   C.   A local special election. (Ord. 2004-O-2, 6-17-2004)
3-6E-5: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX LEVY:
This tax shall be levied beginning the earlier of July 1, 2004, or the first
day of any calendar quarter after a seventy five (75) day period beginning on
the date of the commission received notice, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
section 10-1-403, that the town has enacted this article. (Ord. 2004-O-2, 6-17-
2004)
3-6E-6: CHANGES IN RATE OR REPEAL OF TAX:
This article is subject to the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 10-
1-403. If the tax rate is changed or the tax is repealed, then the appropriate
notice shall be given as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-403.
(Ord. 2004-O-2, 6-17-2004)
3-6E-7: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR COLLECTION:
On or before the effective date hereof, the town shall enter into a uniform
interlocal agreement with the state tax commission, as described in Utah Code
Annotated section 10-1-405, for the collection, enforcement and administration
of this municipal telecommunications license tax. (Ord. 2004-O-2, 6-17-2004)
3-6E-8: REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT TAXES AND FEES:
   A.   Any tax or fee previously enacted by the town under authority of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-1-203, or title 11, chapter 26, local taxation of
utilities limitation, is hereby repealed.
   B.   Nothing in this article shall be interpreted to repeal any town
ordinance or fee which provides that the town may recover from a
telecommunications provider the management costs of the town caused by the
activities of the telecommunications provider in the rights of way of the town,
if the fee is imposed in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 72-7-102,
and is not related to the town's loss of use of a highway as a result of the
activities of the telecommunications provider in a right of way, or increased
deterioration of a highway as a result of the activities of the
telecommunications provider in a right of way, nor does this article limit the
town's right to charge fees or taxes on persons that are not subject to the
municipal telecommunications license tax under this article and locate
"telecommunication facilities", as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 72-7-
108, in the town. (Ord. 2004-O-2, 6-17-2004)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES AND WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Declaration Of Nuisance
4-1-3: Toilet Or Sewer Facilities
4-1-4: Restrictions On Blocking Water
4-1-5: Weeds And Deleterious Objects
4-1-6: Nuisances On Property
4-1-7: Reserved
4-1-8: Penalty For Failure To Comply
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AUTHOR: Where a nuisance exists upon property and is the outgrowth of the
usual, natural or necessary use of the property, the landlord or his agent, the
tenant or his agent, and all other persons having control of the property on
which such nuisance exists, shall be deemed to be the authors thereof and shall
be equally liable and responsible. Where any such nuisance shall arise from the
unusual or unnecessary use of such property or from the business thereon
conducted, then the occupants and all other persons contributing to the
continuance of such nuisance shall be deemed the authors.
NUISANCE: Whatever is dangerous to human life or health and whatever renders
soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome is declared to be a nuisance and
unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person either as an owner, agent or
occupant to create or aid in creating or contributing to or maintaining a
nuisance. (1980 Code §§ 10-311, 10-312)
4-1-2: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Statement: Every act or condition made, permitted, allowed or continued
in violation of section
4-1-1 of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be abated
and punished as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Specified: Nuisances include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Befouling Water: Befouling water in any spring, stream, well or
water source supplying water for culinary purposes.
      2.   Privies, Cesspools: Allowing any privy vault or cesspool, or other
individual wastewater disposal system, to become a menace to health or a source
of odors or contamination to air or water.
      3.   Garbage Containers, Offensive: Permitting any garbage container to
remain on premises when it has become unclean and offensive.
      4.   Garbage Accumulation: Allowing vegetable waste, garbage, litter,
filth or refuse of any nature to accumulate within or upon any private alley,
yard or area, except when it is temporarily deposited for immediate removal.
      5.   Manure Accumulation: Permitting the accumulation of manure in any
stable, stall, corral, feed yard, yard or in any other building or area in
which any animals are kept.
      6.   Discharging Offensive Water Or Liquid Waste: Discharging or placing
any offensive water, chemical spray, liquid waste or refuse of any kind into
any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash, natural watercourse, ditch,
canal or any vacant lot or which, as the result of continued discharge, will
render the place of discharge offensive or likely to become so.
      7.   Collecting Grease, Offensive Matter: Keeping or collecting any stale
or putrid grease or other offensive matter.
      8.   Flies And Mosquitos: Having or permitting upon any premises any fly
or mosquito producing condition.
      9.   Public Drinking Vessels: Keeping any drinking vessel for public use
without providing a method of decontamination between uses.
      10.   Ablutions Near Drinking Fountain: Permitting or performing any
ablutions in or near any public drinking fountain.
      11.   Boarding House Or Factory, Sanitary Condition: Failing to furnish
any dwelling house, boarding house or factory or other place of employment with
such privy vaults, water closets, sinks or other facilities as may be required
to maintain the same in sanitary condition.
      12.   Cleaning Privy Vaults: Neglecting or refusing to discontinue use
of, clean out, disinfect and fill up all privy vaults and cesspools or other
individual wastewater disposal systems within twenty (20) days after notice
from an enforcement officer or official of the town.
      13.   Stagnant Water; Offensive Substances: Permitting any lot or
excavation to become the repository of stagnant water or any decaying or
offensive substances.
      14.   Obstructing Public Ways, Watercourses, Parks: Obstructing or
tending to obstruct or interfere with or render dangerous for passage any
street or sidewalk, lake, stream, drainage, canal or basin, or any public park
without first obtaining the written permission of the town council. (1980 Code
§ 10-313; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Enumeration Not Exclusive: The types of nuisances above stated shall be
deemed in addition to and in no way a limitation of the nuisances subject to
this chapter. (1980 Code § 10-314)
4-1-3: TOILET OR SEWER FACILITIES:
All toilet or sewer facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with state law, the Salt Lake Valley health department and town
ordinances. All such facilities that do not comply with such provisions are
hereby declared to be a nuisance and are subject to abatement as herein
prescribed. (1980 Code § 10-315; amd. 2010 Code)
4-1-4: RESTRICTIONS ON BLOCKING WATER:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any drainage system,
canal, ditch, conduit or other watercourse of any kind or nature, natural or
artificial, to become so obstructed as to cause the water to back up and
overflow therefrom, or to become unsanitary.
   B.   Maintenance of any such watercourse in such condition shall constitute
a nuisance and the same shall be subject to abatement. (1980 Code § 10-316)
4-1-5: WEEDS AND DELETERIOUS OBJECTS:
   A.   Weeds Defined: Weeds shall include any vegetation commonly referred to
as a weed or which shall have been designated a noxious weed by the state
commissioner of agriculture.
   B.   Standard Of Weed Control; Removal of Cut Weeds:
      1.   It is hereby declared that the above stated weeds constitute a
nuisance when they create a fire hazard, a source of contamination or pollution
of the water, air or property, a danger to health, a breeding place or
habitation for insects or rodents or other forms of life deleterious to humans
or are unsightly or deleterious to their surroundings.
      2.   The cut weeds shall be removed from the premises within forty-eight
(48) hours after cutting.
   C.   Penalty: It shall be an infraction and, upon conviction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person owning or occupying real property to not
remove from such property any cuttings of such weeds or any refuse, unsightly
or deleterious objects after having been given notice as provided in Title 12.
(1980 Code §§ 3-321, 3-323, 10-322; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2023-O-4, 2-14-2024)
4-1-6: NUISANCES ON PROPERTY:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the term "nuisance" is
defined to mean any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which
are deleterious or injurious, noxious or unsightly, which includes, but is not
limited to, keeping or depositing on or scattering over the premises any of the
following:
      1.   Lumber, junk, trash or debris. (1980 Code § 10-331)
      2.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, containers or
other discarded items not currently in use. (1980 Code § 10-331; amd. 2010
Code)
   B.   Duty Of Maintenance: No person owning, leasing, occupying or having
charge of any premises shall maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall
any such person keep or maintain such premises in any manner causing
substantial diminution in the value of the other property in the neighborhood
in which such premises are located. (1980 Code § 10-332)
   C.   Storage Of Personal Property: Unsheltered storage of old, unused,
stripped and junked machinery, implements, equipment or personal property of
any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was
manufactured, for a period of thirty (30) days or more within the town, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the public safety. (1980 Code
§ 10-333; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Abatement By Owners: The owner, owners, tenants, lessees or occupants
of any lot within the town on which such storage, as defined in subsection C of
this section, is made, and also the owner, owners or lessees of the above
described personal property involved in such storage, shall jointly and
severally abate such nuisance by its prompt removal into completely enclosed
and secured yards or buildings to be used for such purposes, or otherwise
remove such property from the town. (1980 Code § 10-334)
4-1-7: RESERVED:
Reserved by Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024.
4-1-8: PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY:
Any owner, occupant or person having an interest in property subject to this
chapter who shall fail to comply with the notice or order given pursuant to
this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 10-359; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-
2024)
CHAPTER 2
LITTER, GARBAGE AND HANDBILL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Garbage Regulations
4-2-2: Handbills And Posters
4-2-3: Litter Regulations
4-2-4: Enforcement
4-2-5: Penalty
4-2-1: GARBAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of this section apply to both residents
and commercial operations. (2010 Code)
   B.   Definitions:
COMMERCIAL GARBAGE: Garbage produced in commercial establishments, public or
quasi-public institutions or establishments, including restaurants, hotels,
motels and similar establishments.
COMMUNITY WASTE: Lawn cuttings, clippings from bushes and shrubs, leaves and
trees and tree branches.
CONTAINER OR REGULATION CONTAINER: A type of garbage or trash container of
galvanized metal or other approved material and having a tightfitting lid or a
properly and sufficiently treated weather resistant bag manufactured
specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection.
GARBAGE: Waste from the preparation, handling, storing, cooking or consumption
of food and food products.
REFUSE: All waste matter, except garbage, attending or resulting from the
occupancy of residences, apartments, hotels, or other places of dwelling and
from the operation of a business. "Refuse" shall not be deemed to include
industrial waste or waste matter resulting from the construction, demolition or
repair of a building or other structure.
RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE: Garbage produced in places of private residence and dining
halls not open to the public. (1980 Code §10-411; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Accumulation Of Garbage Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
or place of business to accumulate garbage or refuse, or cause garbage or
refuse to be deposited upon any street or alley or upon any premises in the
municipality without express permission from the building official, or his
designated representative. (1980 Code § 10-415; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Containers:
      1.   Type: All garbage and refuse shall be placed in suitable and
sufficient garbage receptacles, either receptacles with tightfitting lids or
properly and sufficiently treated water resistant bags manufactured
specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection, or plastic bags
manufactured specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection. (1980 Code
§ 10-416; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Closing Required: All garbage and market waste must be placed in
rainproof and flyproof receptacles of the type herein required, and the
receptacle shall be tightly closed in such manner as to prevent offensive odors
or flies. (1980 Code § 10-417)
      3.   Solid Waste Containerization And Removal:
         a.   All residences and businesses located in any area in which
collection is by the town or approved contractors shall have sufficient
container capacity to accommodate their normal volume of solid waste between
collections.
         b.   All loose materials which normally fit into containers but which
are in excess as a result of special circumstances such as holidays shall be
bundled and tied securely to prevent them from blowing or scattering and shall
be placed beside the containers.
         c.   Any container which does not conform to prescribed standards or
which has defects likely to hamper collection or injure the person collecting
the contents thereof or the public generally shall be replaced promptly by the
owner or user of the container upon receipt of written notice of such defects
from the town. Failure to do so within five (5) days of such notification shall
constitute a violation of this subsection. (1980 Code § 10-452; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Disposal Of Community Waste: Community waste may be disposed of by
residents and business establishments in vehicles provided by them, subject to
regulation by the governing body as to the places of disposal and as to the
type of vehicle used to avoid spillage upon the public ways of the
municipality, hazards to safety and the prevention of nuisances. (1980 Code
§ 10-419)
   F.   Burning Of Refuse Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
burn garbage, market waste, manure or other refuse in the open air or in any
furnace or stove within the town. (1980 Code § 10-420)
   G.   Dumping Refuse Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit or dump garbage, ashes, market waste, paper boxes, cartons,
trade waste, manure or night soil, or any other refuse, upon any lot within the
municipality, whether such lot is occupied or vacant and whether such person so
placing, depositing or dumping such refuse is the owner, tenant, occupant or
lessor thereof, or has the same under his jurisdiction and control. (1980 Code
§ 10-421)
   H.   Limitations Upon Dumping: Dumping waste and garbage shall be permitted
only in such places as are designated by the governing body. Dumping shall be
subject to such rules and regulations as may be formulated by the governing
body. (1980 Code § 10-422)
   I.   Regulations May Be Adopted: The governing body may adopt such
regulations as in its opinion are necessary to implement this section and its
objectives. (1980 Code § 10-423)
   J.   Unauthorized Deposit Of Solid Waste: It shall be unlawful for any
resident or any owner, manager or employee of a commercial establishment or
institution to deposit solid waste in any receptacle maintained on a sidewalk
or at any other location for disposal of litter by pedestrians. (1980 Code
§ 10-452; amd. 2010 Code)
   K.   Provision For Solid Waste Disposal And Storage Facilities At New
Buildings:
      1.   Before building permits shall be issued for construction of
commercial buildings and multiple dwelling units, plans for the adequacy,
location and accessibility of solid waste containerization and storage
facilities must be approved by the town.
      2.   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for said premises until
the town's approval of these facilities has been obtained. (1980 Code § 10-452)
4-2-2: HANDBILLS AND POSTERS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section:
AUTHORIZED RECEPTACLE: A public or private litter storage and collection
receptacle.
COMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or literature:
      1.Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
      2.Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest in sales thereof;
      3.Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit. However, the terms of this
clause shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is
taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind, when either of the
same is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of
information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good
morals, public peace, safety and good order; provided, that nothing contained
in this clause shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place
of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind without
a license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this state,
or under any ordinance of this municipality; or
      4.Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distribution.
NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general or local circulation or any periodical or
current magazine regularly published with not less than four (4) issues per
year and sold to the public.
NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the definitions of a "commercial handbill" or
"newspaper", as defined in this subsection.
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the municipality, owned or used by the municipality.
VEHICLE: Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively on
stationary rails or tracks. (1980 Code §10-431; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   General Prohibition: No person or business shall post, stick, stamp,
paint or otherwise fix, or cause the same to be done by any person, any notice,
placard, bill, card, poster, advertisement or other paper or device calculated
to attract the attention of the public, upon any sidewalk, curb or any other
portion or part of any public way or public place or any lamppost, electric
light, telegraph, telephone or railway structure, hydrant, shade tree or tree
box, or upon the columns, trusses, girders, railings, gates or other parts of
any bridge or other public structure or building, or upon any pole, box or
fixture of the fire alarm or police telegraph system, except such as may be
authorized or required by the laws of the United States or state, and the
ordinances of the town.
   C.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to distribute indiscriminately to the public by
leaving at houses or residences in the town any cards, circulars, handbills,
samples of merchandise or any advertising matter whatsoever without having
first secured a permit therefor. This subsection shall not be construed to
apply to the sale of articles by licensed peddlers.
      2.   Application For Permit: Applications for such permit shall be made
to the town clerk and shall contain a statement of the nature of the article,
cards or advertisement to be distributed, the name of the applicant and the
name of the manufacturer or distributor of such article or service advertised.
      3.   Permits shall be issued only to persons of good character. The town
shall make or cause to be made an investigation into the character of each
applicant and shall report the results thereof to the town clerk before any
such permit is issued. (1980 Code § 10-449)
   D.   Throwing Or Distributing In Public Places; Penalty: No person shall
throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any
sidewalk, street or other public place. Unless otherwise authorized by the town
council, it is an infraction and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to hand out, distribute or sell any
commercial handbill in any public place; provided, however, that it shall not
be unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other public place for any person to
hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any
noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it. (1980 Code § 10-440;
amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Placing On Vehicles: Unless otherwise authorized by the governing body,
no person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or
on any vehicle; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful in any public
place for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver
thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing
to accept it. (1980 Code § 10-441)
   F.   Depositing On Uninhabited Or Vacant Premises: No person shall throw or
deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any private premises
which is temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant. (1980 Code § 10-
442)
   G.   Prohibiting Distribution Where Properly Posted: No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill on any private
premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so or if there is placed on
said premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a sign being
the words "no trespassing", "no peddlers or agents", "no advertisements", or
any similar notice, indicating in any manner that the occupants of the premises
do not desire to be molested or to have their right of privacy disturbed or to
have any such handbills left on such premises. (1980 Code § 10-443)
   H.   Distributing At Inhabited Private Premises: No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on private
premises which are inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such
handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person then present in or on
such private premises. However, in case of inhabited private premises which are
not posted, as provided in this section, such person, unless requested by
anyone on such premises not to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in
or on such inhabited private premises if such handbill is so placed or
deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted
about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, and except
that mailboxes may not be so used when prohibited by federal postal law or
regulations. (1980 Code § 10-444)
   I.   Exception For Mail And Newspapers: The provisions of this section shall
not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers,
except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner so
as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements on any street,
sidewalk or other public place or on private property. (1980 Code § 10-445)
   J.   Posting Notice Prohibited: No person shall post or affix any notice,
poster or other paper or device calculated to attract the attention of the
public to any lamppost, public utility pole or shade tree, or on any public
structure or building, except as may be authorized or required by law. (1980
Code § 10-446)
4-2-3: LITTER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
CONTAINERS: Locally approved metal, heavy duty paper or plastic receptacles
used for the disposal and storage of solid waste.
LITTER: Any quantity of uncontainerized paper, metal, plastic, glass or
miscellaneous solid waste which may be classed as trash, debris, rubbish,
refuse, garbage or junk.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Includes, but is not limited to, the following exterior
locations owned by private individuals, firms, corporations, institutions or
organizations: yards, grounds, driveways, entranceways, passageways, parking
areas, working areas, storage areas, vacant lots and recreation facilities.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Includes, but is not limited to, the following exterior
locations: streets, street medians, roads, road medians, catch basins,
sidewalks, strips between streets and sidewalks, lanes, alleys, public rights
of way, public parking lots, school grounds, municipal (town) housing project
grounds, municipal (town) vacant lots, parks, beaches, playgrounds, other
publicly owned recreation facilities, and municipal (town) waterways and bodies
of water. (1980 Code §10-451)
   B.   Sweeping Into Gutters: No person shall sweep into or deposit in any
gutter, street or other public place the accumulation of litter from any
building or lot, or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons
owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises
free of litter. (1980 Code § 10-434)
   C.   Merchants' Duty To Keep Sidewalks Clear: No person owning or occupying
a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any
public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of
business shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter. (1980 Code § 10-435)
   D.   Vehicles Depositing Mud, Debris: No person shall drive or move any
vehicle or truck, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any
street, alley or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or
foreign matter of any kind. (1980 Code § 10-437; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Parks: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park, except in
authorized receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented
from being carried or deposited by the elements on any part of the park or on
any street or other public place. Where authorized receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided
herein. (1980 Code § 10-438)
   F.   Lakes And Fountains: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any
fountain, pond, lake, stream or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere
within the town. (1980 Code § 10-439)
   G.   Pedestrians And Motorists:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, discard, place or
deposit litter in any manner or amount on any public or private property within
the corporate limits of the town, except in containers or areas lawfully
provided therefor.
      2.   It shall be the duty of every person distributing commercial
handbills, leaflets, flyers or any other advertising and information material
to take whatever measures from littering public or private property.
      3.   To facilitate proper disposal of litter by pedestrians and
motorists, such publicly patronized or used establishments and institutions as
may be designated by the town shall provide, regularly empty and maintain in
good condition adequate containers that meet standards prescribed by the town.
   H.   Vehicles Transporting Loose Materials:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, institution
or organization to transport any loose cargo by truck or other motor vehicle
within the corporate limits of the town unless said cargo is covered and
secured in such a manner as to prevent depositing of litter on public and
private property.
      2.   The duty and responsibility imposed by subsection H1 of this section
shall be applicable alike to the owner of the truck or other vehicle, the
operator thereof, and the person, firm, corporation, institution or
organization from whose residence or establishment the cargo originated.
      3.   In the prosecution charging a violation of subsection H1 of this
section, lack of adequate covering and securing shall in itself constitute
proof a violation has been committed.
   I.   Loading And Unloading Operations:
      1.   Any owner or occupant of an establishment or institution at which
litter is attendant to the packing and unpacking and loading and unloading of
materials at exterior locations shall provide suitable containers there for the
disposal and storage of such litter and shall make appropriate arrangements for
the collection thereof.
      2.   Further, it shall be the duty of the owner or occupant to remove at
the end of each working day any litter that has not been containerized at these
locations.
   J.   Construction/Demolition Projects:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, agent or contractor in charge of
any construction or demolition site to cause, maintain, permit or allow to be
caused, maintained or permitted the accumulation of any litter on the site
before, during or after completion of the construction or demolition project.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the owner, agent or contractor to have on
the site adequate containers for the disposal of litter and to make appropriate
arrangements for the collections thereof or for transport by himself to an
authorized facility for final disposition.
      3.   The owner, agent or contractor may be required at any time to show
proof of appropriate collection, or if transported by himself, of final
disposition at an authorized facility.
   K.   Keeping Property Clean:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the owner, agent, occupant or lessee to keep
exterior private property free of litter. This requirement applies not only to
removal of loose litter, but to materials that already are, or become, trapped
at such locations as fence and wall bases, grassy and planted areas, borders,
embankments and other lodging points.
      2.   Owners, agents, occupants or lessees whose properties face on
municipal sidewalks and strips between streets and sidewalks shall be
responsible for keeping those sidewalks and strips free of litter.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to sweep or push litter from sidewalks and
strips into streets. Sidewalk and strip sweepings must be picked up and put
into household or commercial solid waste containers.
      4.   It shall be the duty of every nonresident owner of a vacant lot or
other vacant property to appoint a resident agent who shall have responsibility
for keeping that lot or other property free of litter.
      5.   If after due warning, citation or summons, an owner, agent, occupant
or lessee fails to remove litter from any private property, the town is
authorized to serve written notice to the owner or his appointed agent that if
the condition is not corrected within ten (10) days, the property will be
cleaned by the town and the owner or his appointed agent billed for the cost
thereof. If the bill is not paid within thirty (30) days, execution may be
issued by the town against the property for the amount of the cleaning charge,
and such execution shall constitute a lien on the property until the claim has
been satisfied. (1980 Code § 10-452; amd. 2010 Code)
4-2-4: ENFORCEMENT:
The building official, or his designee, is authorized to enforce the provisions
of this chapter. (2010 Code)
4-2-5: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified, it shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to violate any provision of this chapter. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Board Of Health
4-3-2: Health Director
4-3-3: Salt Lake Valley Health Department Regulations Adopted By Reference
4-3-4: Permits
4-3-5: Rules, Regulations And Requirements
4-3-1: BOARD OF HEALTH:
   A.   Established: The Salt Lake Valley health department is hereby
designated as the board of health of the town. (1980 Code § 10-211)
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Contract With Health Department: The town may contract with the Salt
Lake Valley health department, on such terms and conditions as the parties may
agree, to enforce the provisions of this chapter and such other ordinances of
the town, which authorize or require action or impose any duty on the board of
health.
      2.   Adopt Rules And Regulations: The board of health shall adopt such
rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary to govern its meetings and
conduct.
      3.   Review And Approve Applications And Permits: The board of health
shall review and approve all applications for permits to operate any business
or engage in any construction for which a permit is required from the board of
health, pursuant to any ordinances or regulations of the town.
      4.   Recommend Rules And Regulations: The board of health shall recommend
to the mayor for promulgation by the governing body such health rules,
regulations and ordinances as it deems necessary for the health of the persons
within the town. (1980 Code § 10-212)
4-3-2: HEALTH DIRECTOR:
   A.   Position Created: The health director of the Salt Lake Valley health
department is hereby designated as the health director of the town. (1980 Code
§ 10-221)
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Appoint Or Designate Assistant: The health director may appoint or
designate any qualified person to act as his assistant for the purpose of
enforcing the ordinances of the town.
      2.   Enforce Terms And Conditions Of Contract: Subject to the terms and
conditions of the contract between the Salt Lake Valley health department, the
health director shall:
         a.   Be the executive officer of the board of health.
         b.   Enforce all ordinances of the town and the state which relate to
the health and welfare of the residents of the town.
         c.   Enforce all rules, regulations and ordinances relating to:
            (1)   Plumbing, sanitation, contagious infectious diseases,
quarantine and sewage disposal.
            (2)   Producing, storing, keeping and selling meat, dairy or other
foods or food products.
            (3)   The quarantine and disposal of all animals affected with any
contagious or infectious diseases.
         d.   Have the power to impose and maintain a strict quarantine of all
infected persons and premises having contagious or infectious diseases, and to
require such persons or premises to be disinfected.
         e.   Have the right and authority, when he shall deem necessary to
secure or preserve the public health, to enter into or upon any premises,
building or other places during the daytime to examine, analyze or test any
building, structure, premises, product or goods manufactured, stored or kept
within the town for the purposes of enforcing this chapter. (1980 Code § 10-
222; amd. 2010 Code)
4-3-3: SALT LAKE VALLEY HEALTH DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The town hereby adopts by reference the Salt Lake Valley health department
regulations. (2010 Code)
4-3-4: PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of the following
businesses or activities without first obtaining a permit from the board of
health:
   A.   Food Or Food Products For Human Consumption: Handling, selling,
offering for sale, preparing or serving any food or food products or beverages
or water intended for human consumption.
   B.   Public Swimming Pool: Operating or permitting public access to any
public swimming pool.
   C.   Public Dump: Commercially operating any public dump, garbage or refuse
collection or disposal facility, or cleaning out or installing any privy,
cesspool or septic tank.
   D.   Fumigation Of Pests: Fumigating or eradicating pests, insects, vermin
or any other infestation from any building occupied or to be occupied by
humans. (1980 Code § 10-213)
4-3-5: RULES, REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Unwholesome Food: It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to sell or offer for sale any unwholesome
food or beverage which has been condemned by any government food inspector.
(1980 Code § 10-223; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Removal Of Garbage:
      1.   Upon Vacating Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person, upon
vacating or moving from any dwelling, storeroom or other building, to fail to
remove all garbage, rubbish or ashes from such building or premises and the
grounds appurtenant thereto, or to fail to place the same in a thoroughly
sanitary condition within twenty four (24) hours after the premises is vacated.
      2.   Rental Property: In situations where rental property is so vacated,
the owner of the property shall be concurrently responsible with the tenant
thereof for compliance with this subsection. (1980 Code § 10-224)
   C.   Discharge Of Sewage Pollution:
      1.   Conform To Standards: It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge or permit the discharge of any sewage or filth from any premises into
and upon any public highway, stream, watercourse or public place, or into any
drain, cesspool or private wastewater disposal system which does not conform to
standards established by the state division of health or by the town.
      2.   Connection To Public Sewer System: The health director may order a
connection for sewage disposal to be made with the public sewer system provided
by the town if such is available; provided, that the public sewer system is
within three hundred feet (300') of the premises.
      3.   Prevention: The health director shall use all due measures to
prevent the fouling of any streams, watercourses, reservoirs or any source
furnishing water to any of the inhabitants of the town. (1980 Code § 10-225)
   D.   Inadequate Plumbing: The health director shall have power to require
the prompt repair of all leaks or other defects in plumbing throughout the
town. He shall have power to condemn and abate all plumbing which is deficient
under the plumbing ordinances. When, in the opinion of the health director, a
change in occupants, type of business or other cause requires changes in
plumbing, he shall have the power to compel the installation of an increased
number of plumbing fixtures and a change in their type or capacity, and to make
such other alterations or increases as may be necessary for the health and
safety of the occupants of the building and of the public generally. (1980 Code
§ 10-226)
   E.   Cleaning And Bactericidal Treatment Of Utensils And Equipment:
      1.   All equipment, including display cases or windows, counters,
shelves, tables, refrigerators, stoves, hoods and sinks, shall be kept clean
and free from dust, dirt, insects and other contaminating material. All cloths
used by waiters, chefs and other employees shall be clean. Single service
containers shall be used only once.
      2.   Any multi-use eating and drinking utensils shall be thoroughly
cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved bactericidal process after
each usage. All multi-use utensils used in the preparation or serving of food
and drink shall be thoroughly cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved
process immediately following the day's operation. Drying cloths, if used,
shall be kept clean and shall be used for no other purpose.
      3.   No article, polish or other substance containing any cyanide
preparation or other poisonous material shall be used for the cleaning or
polishing of utensils. (1980 Code § 10-227)
   F.   Storage And Handling Of Utensils And Equipment: After bactericidal
treatment, utensils shall be stored in a clean, dry place protected from flies,
dust and other contamination, and shall be handled in such a manner as to
prevent contamination as far as practicable. Single service utensils shall be
purchased only in containers, shall be stored therein in a clean, dry place
until used and shall be handled in a sanitary manner. (1980 Code § 10-228)
   G.   Disposal Of Wastes: All wastes shall be properly disposed of, and all
garbage and trash shall be kept in suitable receptacles, in such manner as not
to become a nuisance. (1980 Code § 10-229)
   H.   Refrigeration: All readily perishable food and drink shall be kept at
or below fifty degrees Fahrenheit (50°F), except when being prepared or served.
Wastewater from refrigeration equipment shall be properly disposed of. (1980
Code § 10-230)
   I.   Wholesomeness Of Food And Drink: All food and drink shall be clean,
wholesome, free from spoilage and so prepared as to be safe for human
consumption. All milk, fluid products, ice cream and other frozen desserts
served shall be from approved sources. Milk and fluid milk products shall be
served in individual containers in which they were received from the
distributor or from a bulk container equipped with an approved dispensing
device; provided, that this requirement shall not apply to cream, which may be
served from the original bottle or from a dispenser approved for such service.
All oysters, clams and mussels shall be from approved sources, and if shucked,
shall be kept until used in the containers in which they were placed at the
shucking plant. (1980 Code § 10-231)
   J.   Storage, Display And Serving Of Food And Drink: All food and drink
shall be so stored, displayed and served as to be protected from dust, flies,
vermin, depredation and pollution by rodents, unnecessary handling, droplet
infection, overhead leakage and other contamination. No animals or fowl shall
be kept or allowed in any room in which food or drink is prepared or stored.
All means necessary for the elimination of flies, roaches and rodents shall be
used. (1980 Code § 10-232)
   K.   Clean Premises: The premises of all restaurants shall be kept clean and
free of litter or rubbish. None of the operations connected with a restaurant
shall be conducted in any room used as living or sleeping quarters. Adequate
lockers or dressing rooms shall be provided for employees' clothing and shall
be kept clean. Soiled linens, coats and aprons shall be kept in containers
provided for this purpose. (1980 Code § 10-233)
   L.   Employees:
      1.   All persons engaged in handling or coming in contact with food
intended for sale or human consumption shall keep themselves clean, both as to
person and clothing.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or is a
carrier of any infectious or contagious disease to handle or be engaged in the
care or preparation of any such food; and it shall be unlawful to permit any
such person to be employed in or about any premises where food is stored,
prepared or sold, or to deliver such food. (1980 Code § 10-234)
   M.   Examination And Condemnation Of Unwholesome Or Adulterated Food Or
Drink: Samples of food, drink and other substances may be taken and examined by
the board of health as often as may be necessary for the detection of
unwholesomeness or adulteration. The board may condemn and forbid the sale of,
or cause to be removed or destroyed, any food or drink which is unwholesome or
adulterated. (1980 Code § 10-235)
   N.   Toilet Facilities: Every restaurant shall be provided with adequate and
conveniently located toilet facilities for its employees, conforming with the
ordinances of the county. In restaurants hereafter constructed, toilet rooms
shall not open directly into any room in which food, drink or utensils are
handled or stored. The doors of all toilet rooms shall be self-closing. Toilet
rooms shall be kept in a clean condition, in good repair, and well lighted and
ventilated. Hand washing signs shall be posted in each toilet room used by
employees. (1980 Code § 10-236)
   O.   Water Supply: Running water under pressure shall be easily accessible
to all rooms in which food is prepared or utensils are washed, and the water
supply shall be adequate and of a safe and sanitary quality. (1980 Code § 10-
237)
   P.   Lavatory Facilities: Adequate and convenient hand washing facilities
shall be provided, including hot and cold running water, soap and approved
sanitary towels. The use of a common towel is prohibited. No employee shall
resume work after using the toilet room without first washing his hands. (1980
Code § 10-238)
   Q.   Construction Of Utensils And Equipment: All multi-use utensils and all
show and display cases or windows, counters, shelves, tables, refrigerating
equipment, sinks and other equipment or utensils used in connection with the
operation of a restaurant shall be so constructed as to be easily cleaned and
shall be kept in good repair. Utensils containing or plated with cadmium or
lead shall not be used; provided, that solder containing lead may be used for
jointing. (1980 Code § 10-239)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSIVE BUSINESSES AND FACILITIES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Defined
4-4-2: Permit Required
4-4-3: Application For Permit
4-4-4: Issuance Of Permit
4-4-5: Control Of Animal And Fowl Facilities
4-4-6: Existing Businesses And Facilities
4-4-1: DEFINED:
"Offensive businesses", within the meaning of this chapter, shall include, but
not be limited to, packing houses, dairies, tanneries, canneries, renderies,
junk or salvage yards, bone factories, slaughter houses, butcher shops, soap
factories, foundries, breweries, distilleries, livery stables, blacksmith
shops, or any other enterprise or establishment which creates excessive odors,
fumes, smoke, gases or noises. (1980 Code § 10-241B)
4-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall commence or change the location of an offensive business or
establishment in or within one mile of the limits of the town without first
filing an application for a permit to do so with the town clerk. (1980 Code
§ 10-241A)
4-4-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
The application for a permit shall specify the location at which the business
or establishment is to be operated and maintained or the new location to which
it is to be moved. The application shall describe the type of activity which
will be conducted and describe the manner in which the business or
establishment shall eliminate, control, or modify the emission by the business
of the undesirable odors, fumes, noises, and other noisome features and the
manner in which it shall be screened from public view, if its appearance is
offensive. (1980 Code § 10-241C)
4-4-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Report And Recommendation: The town clerk shall cause a study to be
made of the proposed business or relocation of any offensive business or
establishment by the board of health and by personnel engaged in the inspection
of buildings and other facilities. A report and recommendation shall be made to
the town council. The town council, after review, may grant to the applicant an
opportunity to be heard and present additional facts. Thereafter the town
council may:
      1.   Deny the application.
      2.   Recommend a modification thereof.
      3.   Grant a limited permit to enter into the business or make the change
of location subject to the requirement that the business or facility conform to
standards established by the town council with reference to controlling the
offensive features of the business.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: In the event a permit is granted, it shall be
subject to revocation either upon failure of the operator or owner to conduct
his business in the manner specified by the town council at the time of the
granting of the permit, or because a change of circumstances makes the
continued operation or maintenance of the business or facility a public
nuisance.
   C.   Modification Of Permit: The town council shall have power to revoke or
modify the permission to operate and maintain the business in such a manner as
it deems necessary for the public good. (1980 Code § 10-242)
4-4-5: CONTROL OF ANIMAL AND FOWL FACILITIES:
   A.   Location And Management: The town council shall have the power to
prohibit or control the location and management of any offensive, unwholesome
business or establishment in or within one mile of the town and may compel the
owner of any pigsty, privy, barn corral, fur bearing animal farm, feed yard,
poultry farm, or other unwholesome or nauseous house or place to cleanse, abate
or remove the same.
   B.   Examination Of Operation: The town council may on its own initiative,
and shall on complaint of a member of the public, examine the operation,
control or location of any business or facility for the purpose of determining
whether or not the operation of such business or facility should be improved so
as to minimize the offensive and unwholesome characteristics or whether the
business or activity should be moved or abated.
   C.   Notification Of Abatement: In the event that the town council decides
that the business or facility should be abated, removed, or controlled, it
shall notify the owner or operator of the business or facility of such fact.
   D.   Hearing; Limited Permit: After a hearing, the town council may issue a
limited permit wherein it may prescribe the specifications and standards which
must be followed by the business or facility in order to be permitted to
continue in operation.
   E.   Abatement Or Removal: Upon a determination by the town council that the
business or facility is a nuisance, it shall have the power to order the
abatement or removal of the facility or establishment. If the owner fails to
conform to such order, the town council shall have the power to bring all
necessary legal proceedings to force removal, abatement or adherence to
standards. (1980 Code § 10-244)
4-4-6: EXISTING BUSINESSES AND FACILITIES:
   A.   Investigation By Town Council: The town council may require an
investigation of any existing offensive business or facility to determine
whether or not it should be permitted to remain in existence in or within one
mile of the town limits. If the town council determines that the continuation
of the business or facility has become a nuisance to persons situated within
the town limits or that ample control is not being exercised to minimize the
creation of excessive odors, fumes, smoke, gases, and noise, it shall notify
the owner or operator thereof that the town council is considering revoking or
modifying the operator's permit.
   B.   Conform To Standards And Specifications: If the town council decides to
require a modification of the manner in which the business or facility is to be
maintained, it shall specify the standards or specifications to which the
enterprise must conform or otherwise lose its permit to engage thereafter in
the business or activity. (1980 Code § 10-243)
CHAPTER 5
BURIALS AND DISINTERMENT
SECTION:
4-5-1: Regulations
4-5-2: Penalty
4-5-1: REGULATIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to disinter or remove the body of a
person who has died from a contagious disease within two (2) years after the
date of burial, unless the body was buried in a hermetically sealed casket or
vault and is found to be so incased at the time of disinterment.
   B.   It is unlawful to inter anything other than the remains of human bodies
in cemeteries.
   C.   It is unlawful to bury the body of any person within the town except in
the town cemetery or a private cemetery, unless by special permission of the
governing body under such rules and regulations that it may prescribe. (1980
Code § 10-246; amd. 2010 Code)
4-5-2: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 10-246; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 6
SALT LAKE CITY WATERSHED REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
SECTION:
4-6-1: Salt Lake City Watershed Regulations Adopted By Reference
4-6-1: SALT LAKE CITY WATERSHED REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The town hereby adopts the Salt Lake City watershed regulations by reference.
(2010 Code)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
TOWN MARSHAL DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Established
5-1-2: Town Marshal
5-1-3: Powers And Duties
5-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a regularly constituted police force to be known as
the town marshal department, which shall consist of a marshal and such other
police officers as shall be employed by the town. (1980 Code § 13-111)
5-1-2: TOWN MARSHAL:
The town marshal shall:
   A.   Responsible For Department: Organize, supervise, and be responsible for
all the activities of the marshal's department and shall define and assign the
duties of the different police officers.
   B.   Attend Town Council Meetings: When required, attend meetings of the
town council to consult with and advise them on matters of public safety. He
shall execute all lawful orders of the mayor and town council and see that all
orders and judgments of the justice court judge are carried into effect. (1980
Code § 13-112)
5-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The town marshal and all police officers of the town shall have the following
powers and duties in addition to those that may be assigned to them as provided
above:
   A.   Suppress Riots: To suppress riots, disturbances, and breaches of the
peace, and to apprehend all persons committing any offense against the laws of
the state or ordinances of the town.
   B.   Execute And Serve Warrants: To execute and serve all warrants,
processes, commitments, and writs whatsoever issued by the justice court judge.
   C.   Preserve Public Peace: To preserve the public peace, prevent crime,
detect and arrest offenders, protect persons and property, remove nuisances
existing in the public streets, roads, highways and other public places,
enforce every law relating to the suppression of offenses, render such
assistance in the collection of licenses as may be required by the license
collector and perform all duties enjoined upon them by law and ordinance. (1980
Code § 13-113)
   D.   Maintain Register Of Arrests: The town marshal shall provide and cause
to be kept a register of arrests. Upon such register shall be entered a
statement showing the date of such arrest, the name of the person arrested, the
name of the arresting officer, the offense charged and a description of any
property found upon the person arrested. (1980 Code § 13-114)
   E.   Stolen Property Disposition: It shall be the duty of the town marshal
to keep all lost or stolen property that comes into the possession of the
marshal's department or any of its members. He shall make all reasonable
efforts to discover the owners thereof. (1980 Code § 13-117)
   F.   Register Of Property: The town marshal must enter or cause to be
entered in a suitable book a description for every article of property alleged
to be stolen or embezzled and brought into his office or taken from the person
of the prisoner and must attach a number to each article and make a
corresponding entry thereof. (1980 Code § 13-116)
   G.   Property Taken From Person Arrested: When money or other property is
taken from a person arrested upon a charge of a public offense, the officer
taking it must at the time issue triplicate receipts therefor, specifying
particularly the amount of money or kind of property taken. One of the receipts
the arresting officer must deliver to the person arrested. Another he must
forthwith file with the clerk of the court to which the complaint and other
papers in the case are required by law to be sent. The third receipt must be
sent at once to the office of the town marshal. (1980 Code § 13-115)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Administration
5-2-3: Dog Licensing
5-2-4: Commercial Establishments Prohibited
5-2-5: Dogs Running At Large
5-2-6: Fierce, Dangerous Or Vicious Animals
5-2-7: Wild Animals
5-2-8: Nuisance Animals
5-2-9: Regulations And Prohibitions
5-2-10: Bites; Duty To Report
5-2-11: Rabies And Rabid Animals
5-2-12: Impounding
5-2-13: Court Order; Procedure
5-2-14: Penalty
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ANIMAL AT LARGE: Any domesticated animal, whether or not licensed, not under
restraint, as defined in this section.
ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT: Any animal under the control of its owner or person
having charge, care, custody or control, except a dog shall not be considered
under control of the owner unless on a leash or lead, confined within a
vehicle, or within the real property limits of the dog owner.
ANIMALS: Any and all types of livestock, dogs and other subhuman creatures,
both domestic and wild, male and female, singular and plural.
BITE: An actual puncture, tear or abrasion of the skin inflicted by the teeth
of an animal.
CAT: Any age feline of the domesticated types.
CATTERY: An establishment for boarding, breeding, buying, grooming or selling
cats for profit.
DOG: Any canis familiaris over ten (10) weeks of age.
GROOMERY: Any establishment maintained for the purpose of offering
cosmetological services for animals for profit.
HOUSEHOLD: A separate dwelling unit which includes kitchen facilities.
KENNEL 1 : An establishment having three (3) or more dogs for the purpose of
boarding, breeding, buying, grooming, letter for hire, training, for fee, or
selling.
LEASH OR LEAD: Any chain, rope or device used to restrain an animal.
PET: An animal kept for pleasure rather than utility, including, but not
limited to, birds, cats, dogs, fish, hamsters, mice, and other animals
associated with man's environment, which are not prohibited by other
governmental regulations.
PET SHOP: Any establishment containing cages or exhibition pens, not part of a
kennel or cattery, wherein dogs, cats, birds, or other pets for sale are kept
or displayed.
QUARANTINE: The isolation of an animal in a substantial enclosure so that the
animal is not subject to contact with other animals or unauthorized persons.
STRAY: Any "animal at large", as defined in this section.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal which is dangerously aggressive, including, but not
limited to, any animal which has bitten or in any other manner attacked any
person or animal.
WILD, EXOTIC OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal which is not commonly
domesticated, or which is not native to North America, or which, irrespective
of geographic origin, is of a wild or predatory nature, or any other animal
which, because of its size, growth propensity, vicious nature or other
characteristics would constitute an unreasonable danger to human life, health
or property if not kept, maintained or confined in a safe and secure manner.
Those animals, however domesticated, shall include, but are not limited to:
   A.Alligators and crocodiles.
   B.Bears (Ursidae): All bears including grizzly bears, brown bears and black
bears.
   C.Cat family (Felidae): All except the commonly accepted domesticated cats,
and including cheetah, cougars, leopards, lions, lynx, panthers, mountain
lions, tigers, wildcats, etc.
   D.Dog family (Canidae): All except domesticated dogs, and including wolf,
fox, coyote, dingo, etc.
   E.Porcupine (Erethizontidae).
   F.Primate (Hominidae): All subhuman primates.
   G.Raccoon (Prosynnidae): All raccoons, including eastern raccoon, desert
raccoon, ringtailed cat, etc.
   H.Skunks.
   I.Venomous fish and piranha.
   J.Venomous snakes and lizards.
   K.Weasels. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994; amd. Ord. 1995-O-4, 11-9-1905; Ord.
1999-O-3, 6-17-1999; 2010 Code; Ord. 2014-O-3, 3-13-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See also definition of "kennel" in section
  10-1-6 of this code.
5-2-2: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Department Of Animal Control: The department of animal control is the
town marshal department, any persons designated by the town marshal department,
and town administrative staff. (Ord. 2014-O-3, 3-13-2014)
   B.   Powers Of Animal Control Officials:
      1.   The town marshal department, or any person designated by the
department, shall enforce this chapter.
      2.   The town marshal, his deputies, and recognized animal control
officers are hereby authorized and empowered to apprehend and take with them
and impound any animal found in violation of this chapter, including licensed
and unlicensed dogs.
      3.   In the enforcement of this chapter, the town marshal, any deputy or
a person authorized by the town marshal department, are authorized to enter
onto the open premises of any person to take possession of any dog in violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994)
      4.   The town council shall have the ability to enter into an interlocal
agreement with an animal control facility for purposes of transportation and
impoundment of animals.
   C.   Duties Of Animal Control Officials: The town marshal department shall:
(Ord. 2014-O-3, 3-13-2014)
      1.   Enforce this chapter and perform other responsibilities pursuant
thereto.
      2.   Keep adequate records of all animals impounded and all monies
collected. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994)
      3.   Establish, in cooperation with the Salt Lake Valley health
department, and other applicable governmental agencies, adequate measures for
rabies immunization and control.
   D.   Administrative Staff: The administrative staff shall see that all
animals in the jurisdiction are licensed, controlled and permitted in
accordance with any applicable ordinance and/or regulations. In addition, the
administrative staff shall keep licensing records, collect completed
applications and fees, distribute license tags to owners and oversee the
drawing process for annual licenses.
   E.   Interference With Officer Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to knowingly and intentionally interfere with the Town Marshal
Department in the lawful discharge of duties as herein prescribed. (Ord. 2014-
O-3, 3-13-2014)
5-2-3: DOG LICENSING:
   A.   License Required; Renewal: Any dog found within the boundaries of the
Town must be licensed by the Town. It shall be unlawful for any person to bring
a dog within the boundaries of the Town, whether in a motor vehicle or
otherwise, which is not licensed by the Town. All dog owners which receive dog
licenses from the Town must renew said licenses annually, except as otherwise
provided.
   B.   Term; Renewal Time Limit: Licenses shall be issued in January and shall
be valid through December of each calendar year. If the holder of a dog license
wishes to renew a license, he or she shall obtain an application for license
renewal from the Town which shall be submitted with the appropriate fee before
January 31 of each year. If the application is found to be in order, the
license shall be issued. For good cause shown, the Town may accept an
application after January 31; however, the fee shall be two hundred percent
(200%) of the current licensing fee. In no event shall a license application be
accepted after the last day of February in any calendar year. A dog license
which is not renewed by the last day of February shall be forfeited.
   C.   Number; Classification: Due to the location of the Town within a
watershed area, the Town Council shall impose limits on the total number of
Class A, B, C, and D dog licenses issued by resolution. The number of licenses
shall be reviewed annually and may be increased or decreased upon a finding by
the Town Council in regard to licensee compliance and consideration of the
watershed. However, in no event shall the number of dog licenses in Class A, B,
C, and D collectively exceed ninety-four (94) licenses.
      1.   Classifications: There shall be classes of dog licenses as follows:
         a.   Class A Licenses: Any full time resident qualifies. For purposes
of this license class, a full time resident is one who physically has lived
within the Town at least six (6) months (consecutively or cumulatively) during
each calendar year and, who is registered to vote in the Town.
         b.   Class B Licenses: Those who have ownership interests in improved
residential or commercial property and live part time in the Town.
         c.   Class C Licenses: Employees of businesses within the Town who
have worked in the Town for a period of at least three (3) consecutive winter
or summer seasons and who have demonstrated knowledge of the Town's animal
control ordinances are eligible for this license. Said license shall allow the
employee to bring the licensed dog to the place of employment on condition that
the dog returns home with its owner at the end of the employee's shift. The
applicant for this license shall show, in addition to other license
requirements, written proof that the owner of the business at which the
employee works allows the presence of the dog and has a suitable location for
it.
         d.   Class D Licenses: The Mayor shall have the authority to issue a
temporary dog license for demonstrated necessity or extraordinary hardship. Any
license issued under this authority shall be reported at the next regularly
scheduled Town Council meeting. Any dog licensed under this class must apply
for and receive a temporary license, and pay a fee set by resolution.
         e.   Class E Licenses: The Mayor or his/her designee shall have the
authority to issue temporary licenses to rescue dogs or other groups of dogs
requiring specialized training.
      2.   Allocation; Drawing: The Town Council may allocate new and forfeited
licenses to one or more of the above classes. If more applicants than licenses
exist for any class, a random drawing shall be held to determine license
recipients. If licenses are issued after January of any given year, the
licensee shall be required to pay the full license fee for the year. The
aforementioned actions and rules governing said actions shall be established
through resolutions passed by the Town Council.
   D.   Form Of Application; Rabies Certificate; Fee: License applications must
be submitted annually to the administrative staff, utilizing a standard form
which requests owner's name and address, dog's name, sex, color and age, and
rabies vaccination information. The application shall be accompanied by the
prescribed license fee and by a current rabies vaccination certificate. Rabies
vaccinations shall be given by a licensed veterinarian. The applicant shall
also sign a written statement signifying that they shall abide by the
regulations outlined in this chapter, and all Salt Lake Valley health
department and Salt Lake City watershed rules and regulations.
   E.   Violation; Forfeiture: Any licensed dog whose owner does not fulfill
the requirements of any of the above dog license classifications, shall forfeit
said license.
   F.   Fees; Proof Of Sterilization: Fees shall be assessed annually by
resolution. No dog shall be licensed as spayed or neutered without proof that
sterilization was performed.
   G.   Number Permitted: No person at any one household or business within the
town shall at any time retain more than one class A, B, or C license, in any
combination.
   H.   Unlicensed Dogs Prohibited; Exception: No unlicensed dogs are allowed
in the town except those exemptions set forth in subsection K of this section.
Any owner or caretaker of a dog who brings an unlicensed dog into the
jurisdiction is subject to a watershed fine.
   I.   Planned Unit Developments; Condominium Properties: If any applicant for
a dog license lives within a planned unit development or condominium property,
said applicant for any of the above dog licenses must submit, with the
application, written verification from the property manager of said development
that the issuance of a dog license does not violate regulations governing said
property.
   J.   License Tag:
      1.   Upon payment of the license fee, the administrative staff may issue
to the owner a town tag. Each tag shall have stamped thereon a tag number and
the current year. The owner shall attach the tags to the collar or harness of
the animal and see that the collar and tags are constantly worn. Failure to
attach the tags as provided shall be in violation of this subsection.
      2.   Dog tags are not transferable from one dog to another. No refunds
shall be made on any dog license fee for any reason whatsoever. Replacements
for lost or destroyed tags shall be issued upon payment of a fee as established
by resolution of the town council, to the administrative staff.
      3.   Any person removing or causing to be removed the collar, harness or
tags from any licensed dog without the consent of the owner or keeper thereof,
except a licensed veterinarian or peace officer who removed such for medical or
other reasons, shall be in violation of this subsection.
      4.   Upon the death of a licensed dog, the owner must notify the town
administrative staff within ninety (90) days after the death. The owner must
inform the department of the name, sex, age of the dog and the circumstances of
its death. The owner shall have one hundred eighty (180) days after the death
of the dog in which to obtain a new dog and license. If the owner does not
obtain a new dog within one hundred eighty (180) days, the owner forfeits the
town tag and must apply for future tags as outlined in this section.
   K.   Exemptions To Licensing:
      1.   The fee provisions of this section and licensing requirement shall
not apply to:
         a.   A Service Animal as defined by the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA) (29 CFR 35.136).
         b.   Dogs required for search and rescue operations or extraordinary
circumstances for which the town marshal requires additional assistance for
public safety as allowed by the mayor or town marshal on a temporary basis.
      2.   The town recognizes the need for avalanche dogs to help with public
safety. Avalanche dogs licensed to Alta Ski Lift Company shall not be counted
with the total number of dogs being licensed. However, they shall be licensed
with the town and shall be required to follow all regulations and requirements
of this chapter. The number of avalanche dogs licensed with the town shall be
determined by agreement between the town and the Alta Ski Lift Company. The
town further recognizes the need for training opportunities for rescue dogs or
other dogs requiring specialized training. Before conducting training exercises
within or entering the town, all such dogs shall first obtain a permit from the
Salt Lake City department of public utilities-watershed division, and then a
class E license from the town.
      3.   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed so as to exempt any
dog from having a current rabies vaccination.
   L.   Revocation Of Dog License: If the owner of any dog is found to be in
violation of this chapter for a third time, the town marshal or his deputies or
an animal control officer, shall have the dog immediately impounded and the
license shall be revoked. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994; amd. Ord. 1995-O-4, 11-9-
1995; Ord. 1997-O-3, 4-10-1997; Ord. 1999-O-1, 4-8-1999; Ord. 1999-O-3, 6-17-
1999; Ord. 2014-O-3, 3-13-2014; Ord. 2018-O-3, 8-14-2018; Ord. 2020-O-5, 10-14-
2020; Ord. 2022-O-2, 3-9-2022; Ord. 2023-O-1, 3-8-2023)
5-2-4: COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
In order to protect the watershed and ensure the public health and safety in
the town, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain a kennel,
cattery, pet shop, groomery, riding stable, veterinary clinic or hospital, or
any similar establishment within the jurisdiction. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994)
5-2-5: DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or person having charge, care, custody or
control of any dog to allow such dog at any time to run at large. The owner or
person charged with responsibility for a dog found running at large shall be
strictly liable for a violation of this section regardless of the precautions
taken to prevent the escape of the dog and regardless of whether or not he
knows that the dog is running at large. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994)
5-2-6: FIERCE, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any fierce, dangerous or vicious animal
to permit such animal to go or be off the premises of the owner unless such
animal is under restraint and properly muzzled so as to prevent it from
injuring any person or property. Every animal so vicious and dangerous that it
cannot be controlled by reasonable restraints, and every dangerous and vicious
animal not effectively controlled by its owner or person having charge, care or
control of such animal so that it shall not injure any person or property, is a
hazard to public safety, and the town marshal department shall seek a court
order pursuant to section
5-2-13 of this chapter for destruction or muzzling of the animal. (Ord. 1994-O-
3, 2-10-1994)
5-2-7: WILD ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, barter, give away,
keep or purchase any "wild animal", as defined in section
5-2-1 of this chapter, and which by its nature or the nature of its kind, is
fierce, dangerous, noxious, or naturally inclined to do harm, except a facility
for education or scientific purposes may keep such an animal if protective
devices adequate to prevent such animal from escaping or injuring the public
are provided and sanitary conditions are provided for protection of the public
health and watershed. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994)
5-2-8: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
Any owner or person having charge, care, custody or control of an animal
causing a "nuisance", as defined in this section, shall be in violation of this
chapter and subject to the penalties provided herein. The following shall be
deemed a "nuisance":
   A.   Any animal which:
      1.   Causes damages to the property of anyone other than its owner;
      2.   Is a "vicious animal", as defined in section
5-2-1 of this chapter, and kept contrary to section
5-2-6 of this chapter;
      3.   Causes unreasonable fouling of the air by odors;
      4.   Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings;
      5.   Defecates on any public or private property without the consent of
the owner of such property, unless the person owning, having a proprietary
interest in, harboring or having care, charge, control, custody or possession
of such animal shall remove any such defecation immediately and dispose of it
in an approved way;
      6.   Barks, whines or howls or makes other disturbing noises in an
excessive, continuous or untimely fashion; (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994)
      7.   Molests passersby or chases passing vehicles. "Molest", as used in
this section, shall mean to assault or threaten a person in any way including
aggressively approaching or jumping on a person;
      8.   Attacks, chases or worries other domestic animals, or any species of
wild animal. "Worry" as used in this section, shall mean to harass by tearing,
biting or shaking with the teeth. (Ord. 2014-O-3, 3-13-2014)
      9.   Is determined by the town marshal department or Salt Lake Valley
health department to be a public nuisance by virtue of being offensive or
dangerous to the public health, welfare or safety. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994)
      10.   Leaves fecal matter which is not immediately disposed of. (Ord.
1999-O-1, 4-8-1999)
   B.   Any animals which, by virtue of the number maintained, are determined
by the town marshal department or Salt Lake Valley health department to be
offensive or dangerous to the public health, welfare or safety. (Ord. 1994-O-3,
2-10-1994)
5-2-9: REGULATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Harboring Stray Dogs: It shall be unlawful for any person, except an
animal welfare society incorporated within the state under Utah Code Annotated
section 76-9-302, as amended, to harbor or keep any lost or strayed dog.
Whenever any dog shall be found which appears to be lost or strayed, it shall
be the duty of the finder to notify the town marshal department within twenty
four (24) hours.
   B.   Dead Animals: It shall be the duty of every owner of any animal found
dead within the town to immediately notify the health department of the
location of such animal, so that the same may be removed as speedily as
possible. It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to permit a dead animal
to remain upon the premises of such person, or for the owner of any dead animal
knowingly to permit the same to remain upon any public street or other public
property or upon any premises within the county for more than three (3) hours
without notifying the health department of the location of the same. If the
owner of such dead animal does not remove it himself/herself or cause it to be
properly removed, the town may cause it to be removed and thereupon assess the
actual costs of such against the owner, and may avail itself of all remedies in
law and equity to enforce such removal and recover the costs thereof. (Ord.
1994-O-3, 2-10-1994)
   C.   Dogs On Leash: Any dog which is outside the property of its owner shall
be on a leash and under the control of its owner at all times, with the town
dog license plainly visible in the base facilities zone, the town park, all
parking lot areas, the transfer tow area, the Albion Basin Campground, both
Cecret Lake and Catherine's Pass Trail, and any ski lift base facility area.
However, in all other areas except the aforementioned, a dog may be unleashed
prior to eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. and after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
on the express condition that the dog remain in visual contact and under the
vocal command of its owner, who shall also be in compliance with all other
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-O-3, 3-13-2014)
   D.   Animal Waste Disposal: It shall be the responsibility of the owner or
person having charge, care, custody or control of any dog to pick up fecal
waste immediately and dispose of it as soon as possible in an approved way to
prevent contamination of the watershed area. All such owners and persons shall
carry with them plastic bags or other like items made for this purpose in order
to carry out the objectives of this subsection. Any animal control officer or
law enforcement official may require that the owner or person having charge of
a dog produce a plastic bag or like item made for this purpose upon demand.
(Ord. 1999-O-1, 4-8-1999)
   E.   Dogs On Unenclosed Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person to
chain, stake out, or tether any dog on any unenclosed premises in such a manner
that the animal may go beyond the property line unless such person has
permission of the owner of the affected property.
   F.   Dog Runs: The keeper of any dog permitted to be kept within the
boundaries of the town, shall maintain all outdoor areas in which the dog may
be kept, whether such area is a pen, runway or other enclosure, and whether the
dog is kept in the area permanently or only from time to time, in a reasonably
sanitary condition and must daily remove all fecal matter from the area and
dispose of it in the trash or via the sewer system.
   G.   Female Dogs In Heat: Any owner or person having charge, care, custody
or control of any female dog in heat shall, in addition to restraining such dog
from running at large, cause such dog to be constantly confined in a building
or secure enclosure so as to prevent it from attracting by scent or coming into
contact with other dogs and creating a nuisance, except for planned breeding.
   H.   Dogs Attacking Persons And Animals: It shall be unlawful for the owner
or person having charge, care, custody or control of any dog to allow such dog
to attack, chase or worry any person, any domestic animal having a commercial
value, or any species of hoofed protected wildlife. "Worry", as used in this
subsection, shall mean to harass by tearing, biting or shaking with the teeth.
   I.   Cruelty To Animals:
      1.   Physical Abuse: It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or
maliciously kill, maim, disfigure, torture, beat with a stick, chain, club or
other object, mutilate, burn or scald, overdrive or otherwise cruelly set upon
any animal. Each offense shall constitute a separate violation.
      2.   Care And Maintenance: It shall be the duty of any person to provide
any animal in his charge or custody, as owner or otherwise, with adequate food,
drink, care and shelter. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994)
      3.   Animals In Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or
confine any animal in or upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner,
including, but not limited to, carrying or confining such animal without
adequate ventilation. (Ord. 2014-O-3, 3-13-2014)
      4.   Abandonment Of Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to
abandon any animal within the jurisdiction.
      5.   Animal Poisoning: Except as provided herein, it shall be unlawful
for any person by any means to make accessible to any animal, with intent to
cause harm or death, any substance which has in any manner been treated or
prepared with any harmful or poisonous substance. This provision shall not be
interpreted so as to prohibit the use of poisonous substances for the control
of vermin in furtherance of the public health when applied in such a manner as
to reasonably prohibit access to other animals.
      6.   Injury To Animals By Motorists:
         a.   Every operator of a motor or other self-propelled vehicle upon
the streets of the jurisdiction shall immediately upon injuring, striking,
maiming or running down any domestic animal, give such aid as can reasonably be
rendered. In the absence of the owner, he shall immediately notify the town
marshal department, furnishing requested facts relative to such injury.
         b.   It shall be the duty of such operator to remain at or near the
scene until such time as the appropriate authorities arrive, and upon the
arrival of such authorities, the operator shall immediately identify himself to
such authorities. Alternately, in the absence of the owner, a person may give
aid by taking the animal to an animal control facility or other appropriate
facility and notifying the town marshal department. Such animal may be taken in
by the animal control facility and dealt with as deemed appropriate under the
circumstances.
         c.   Emergency vehicles are exempted from the requirements of this
provision.
      7.   Killing Of Birds: It shall be unlawful for any person to take or
kill any birds, or to rob or destroy any nest, egg or young of any bird in
violation of the laws of the state.
      8.   Malicious Impounding: It shall be unlawful for any person
maliciously to secrete or impound the animal of another. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-
1994)
5-2-10: BITES; DUTY TO REPORT:
   A.   Any person having knowledge of any individual or animal having been
bitten by an animal of a species subject to rabies shall report the incident
immediately to the town marshal department or to the Salt Lake Valley health
department.
   B.   The owner of an animal that bites a person and any person bitten by an
animal shall report the bite to the town marshal department or to the Salt Lake
Valley health department within twenty four (24) hours of the bite, regardless
of whether or not the biting animal is of a species subject to rabies.
   C.   A physician or other medical personnel who renders professional
treatment to a person bitten by an animal shall report the fact that he has
rendered professional treatment to the town marshal department or the Salt Lake
Valley health department within twenty four (24) hours of his first
professional attendance. He shall report the name, sex and address of the
person bitten as well as the type and location of the bite. If known, he shall
give the name and address of the owner of the animal that inflicted the bite
and any other facts that may assist the town marshal department in ascertaining
the immunization status of the animal.
   D.   Any person treating an animal bitten, injured or mauled by another
animal shall report the incident to the town marshal department. The report
shall contain the name and address of the owner of the wounded, injured or
bitten animal, the name and address of the owner and description of the animal
which caused the injury, and the location of the incident.
   E.   Any person not conforming with the requirements of this section shall
be in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994)
5-2-11: RABIES AND RABID ANIMALS:
   A.   Vaccination Required: Rabies vaccinations shall be required for dogs
and cats. The owner or person having the charge, care, custody and control of a
dog or cat four (4) months old or older shall have the animal vaccinated within
thirty (30) days after it reaches that age. Any person permitting any such
animal to habitually be on or remain, or be lodged or fed within such person's
house, yard or premises shall be responsible for the vaccination. Unvaccinated
dogs or cats over four (4) months of age acquired by the owner or moved into
the jurisdiction must be vaccinated within thirty (30) days of purchase or
arrival. Every dog shall be revaccinated thereafter every twenty four (24)
months, and every cat shall be revaccinated thereafter every twelve (12)
months, with a modified virus rabies vaccine approved by the Salt Lake Valley
health department.
   B.   Impoundment Of Animal Without Valid Rabies Vaccination Tag:
      1.   Any vaccinated animal impounded because of a lack of a rabies
vaccination tag may be reclaimed by its owner by furnishing proof of rabies
vaccination and payment of all impoundment fees prior to release.
      2.   Any unvaccinated animal may be reclaimed prior to disposal by
payment of impound fees and by obtaining a rabies vaccination within seventy
two (72) hours of release. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994)
      3.   Any dog not reclaimed prior to the period shall be disposed of.
(Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Reporting Of Rabid Animals: Any person having knowledge of the
whereabouts of an animal known to have been exposed to, or suspected of having,
rabies; or of an animal or person bitten by such a suspect animal, shall notify
the town marshal department or the Salt Lake Valley health department.
   D.   Quarantine And Disposition Of Biting Or Rabid Animals:
      1.   Reporting Required: An animal that has rabies or shows signs of
having rabies, and every animal bitten by another animal affected with rabies
or that has been exposed to rabies, shall be reported by the owner as set forth
above and shall immediately be confined to a secure place by the owner. The
owner shall turn over the animal to the town marshal department or a person
designated by the town marshal department.
      2.   Surrender Of Animal: The owner of any animal of a species subject to
rabies which has bitten shall surrender the animal to an authorized official
upon demand. Any person authorized to enforce this chapter may enter upon
private property to seize the animal; if the owner refuses to surrender the
animal, the officer shall immediately obtain a search warrant authorizing
seizure and impoundment of the animal. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994)
      3.   Seizure And Quarantine: Any animal of a species subject to rabies
that bites a person or animal or is suspected of having rabies may be seized
and quarantined for observation for a period of not less than ten (10) days by
the town marshal department or an authority authorized by the town marshal
department, if the animal had a current rabies vaccination at the time the bite
was inflicted or if there are other special circumstances justifying any person
who has custody of an animal under quarantine, shall immediately notify the
town marshal department if the animal shows any signs of sickness or abnormal
behavior, or if the animal escapes confinement. It shall be unlawful for any
person who has custody of a quarantined animal to fail or refuse to allow a
health department or town marshal department representative to make an
inspection or examination during the period of quarantine. If the animal dies
within ten (10) days from the date of bite, the person having custody shall
immediately notify the town marshal department or immediately remove and
deliver the head to the state health laboratory to be examined for rabies. If,
at the end of the ten (10) day period, the town marshal department or a
designated animal control agency examines the animal and finds no sign of
rabies, the animal may be released to the owner or in the case of a stray, it
shall be disposed of. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994; amd. 2010 Code)
      4.   Unvaccinated Bitten Animals:
         a.   In case of an unvaccinated animal species subject to rabies which
is known to have been bitten by a known rabid animal, the bitten or exposed
animal should be immediately destroyed.
         b.   If the owner is unwilling to destroy the bitten or exposed
animal, the animal shall be immediately isolated and quarantined for six (6)
months under veterinary supervision, the cost of such confinement to be paid in
advance by the owner. The animal shall be destroyed if the owner does not
comply herewith.
      5.   Vaccinated Bitten Animals:
         a.   If the bitten or exposed animal has been vaccinated, the animal
shall be revaccinated within twenty four (24) hours and quarantined for a
period of thirty (30) days following revaccination; or
         b.   If the animal is not revaccinated within twenty four (24) hours,
the animal shall be isolated and quarantined under veterinary supervision for
six (6) months.
         c.   The animal shall be destroyed if the owner does not comply with
subsections D5a or D5b of this section.
      6.   Removal Of Quarantined Animal: It shall be unlawful for any person
to remove any such animal from the place of quarantine without written
permission of the town marshal department or the written permission of the
designated animal control facility.
      7.   Numerous Bites Or Attacks: If any animal bites or attacks a person
or animal two (2) times or more in a twelve (12) month period, such animal may
be immediately impounded by the town marshal department without court order and
held at owner's expense pending court action. Any such animal shall be deemed a
vicious animal, and the town marshal department may seek a court order as
provided in section
5-2-13 of this chapter for destruction of the animal. Parties owning such
animal shall, if possible, be notified immediately of the animal's location by
the town marshal department. (Ord. 1994-O-3, 2-10-1994)
5-2-12: IMPOUNDING:
   A.   Animals To Be Impounded: Any animal taken into custody shall be placed
in an animal impound facility, designated by the town marshal department. The
following animals may be taken into custody by the town marshal department and
impounded without the filing of a complaint:
      1.   Any animal being kept or maintained contrary to the provisions of
this chapter;
      2.   Any animal running at large contrary to the provisions of this
chapter;
      3.   Any animal which is by this chapter required to be licensed and is
not licensed. An animal not wearing a tag shall be presumed to be unlicensed
for purposes of this section;
      4.   Sick or injured animals whose owner cannot be located;
      5.   Any abandoned animal;
      6.   Animals which are not vaccinated for rabies in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter;
      7.   Any animal to be held for quarantine;
      8.   Any vicious animal not properly confined as required by section
5-2-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Records To Be Kept: The impounding facility, designated by the town
marshal department, shall keep a record of each animal impounded, and maintain
records of each animal in accordance with their jurisdiction's ordinance.
   C.   Redemption: Redemption of animal shall be in accordance with the
impounding facility jurisdiction's ordinance.
   D.   Care Of Animals: The care of animals while impounded shall be in
accordance with impounding facility jurisdiction's ordinance. (Ord. 1994-O-3,
2-10-1994; amd. 2010 Code)
5-2-13: COURT ORDER; PROCEDURE:
Court orders pursuant to sections
5-2-6 and
5-2-11 of this chapter shall be filed by the town prosecutor. The party against
whom the order is sought shall be personally served with notice of the hearing
wherein the order is sought at least twenty four (24) hours prior to said
hearing. (Ord. 1990-O-3, 6-17-1999)
5-2-14: PENALTY:
   A.   In addition to the civil penalties set forth in subsection 5-2-3L of
this chapter, any person violating the provisions of this chapter either by
failing to do those acts required herein or by doing any act prohibited herein,
shall be subject to criminal penalties as follows: (Ord. 2000-O-1, 4-13-2000)
      1.   For a first offense, a written citation styled as a "warning", but
which shall be issued to the dog owner and which shall be recorded with the
town marshal.
      2.   For a second offense for the same dog, a citation which shall be
punished as a class C misdemeanor, punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      3.   For a third and subsequent offense for the same dog, a citation
which shall be punished as a class C misdemeanor, punishable by a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The offender shall be subject to the mandatory license
revocation provisions under subsection 5-2-3L of this chapter. (Ord. 2002-O-1,
3-14-2002; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such. (Ord. 2000-O-1,
4-13-2000)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES AND CRIMES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
5-3-1: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except as the application thereof is clearly impractical or inappropriate, in
view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all of the definitions,
requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and sections of the Utah
criminal code, Utah Code Annotated title 76, as amended, with a corresponding
penalty of infraction, class C misdemeanor or class B misdemeanor, are hereby
adopted by the town. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered
violations of this chapter and each such violation shall be subject to the
penalties as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2010 Code)
ARTICLE A.  OFFENSES REGARDING MINORS
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Curfew For Minors
5-3A-1: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases used in this section shall
have the following meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the
context:
CARE AND CUSTODY: The legal authority of a parent or guardian to supervise or
otherwise be responsible for a minor, or the express authority given from such
parent or legal guardian of a minor to a responsible adult to supervise or
otherwise be responsible for the activities and care of the minor.
EMERGENCY ERRAND: Any errand or travel undertaken to directly and immediately
seek to prevent or reduce the consequences of an illness or injury, criminal or
potentially criminal activity, or fire or other accident, and shall include the
seeking of aid and assistance from medical or emergency response personnel or
the purchase of medications.
MINOR: Any unmarried, unemancipated person who is not a member of the armed
forces of the United States and who is under the age of sixteen (16) years for
the purpose of subsection B of this section, or who is under the age of
eighteen (18) years for the purpose of subsection C of this section.
PUBLIC PLACES: Any place open to the public, whether publicly or privately
owned, including, but not limited to, parking lots and the interiors and
exteriors of commercial establishments, such as restaurants, stores or places
of entertainment and recreation.
   B.   Sixteen Years Of Age: It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age
of sixteen (16) years to remain or loiter upon any of the sidewalks, streets,
alleys or public places in the town between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. the following morning.
   C.   Eighteen Years Of Age: It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age
of eighteen (18) years to remain or loiter upon any of the sidewalks, streets,
alleys or public places in the town between the hours of one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
   D.   Parental Liability: It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or
other person having care and custody of any minor to knowingly allow or permit
the minor to violate the provisions of this section.
   E.   Business Liability: No person owning or operating a "business", as
defined by this code, shall knowingly permit any minor to remain on the
premises of such business in violation of the provisions of this section. This
subsection, however, shall not apply to any minor who is lawfully employed on
the premises.
   F.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
circumstance in which the minor is:
      1.   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other responsible adult having
care and custody of such minor;
      2.   Engaged in a legitimate trade, employment or occupation which
requires the minor's presence in or on the sidewalks, streets, alleys or public
places while working at or traveling to or from such employment;
      3.   Engaged on an emergency errand directed by the minor's parent,
guardian or other responsible person having care and custody;
      4.   In a motor vehicle engaged in normal interstate travel beginning in,
traveling through, or ending in the town;
      5.   Attending or engaged in traveling between the minor's home or place
of residence and a place where any religious, municipal, social, entertainment,
sporting, political, library or school function is occurring; or
      6.   Within the immediate vicinity of the minor's place of residence.
   G.   Enforcement:
      1.   Any minor who is in violation of the provisions of this section is
subject to arrest and citation.
      2.   Upon arrest, the minor shall be returned to the custody of the
parent, guardian or other person charged with the care and custody of the
minor.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person
charged with the care and custody of a minor who is in violation of this
section to knowingly refuse to appear and take custody of said minor within a
reasonable time after being ordered to do so by a peace officer. (Ord. 1993-O-
3, 2-11-1993)
ARTICLE B.  DISTURBING THE PEACE
SECTION:
5-3B-1: Noise Restrictions
5-3B-2: Penalty
5-3B-3: Exemptions
5-3B-1: NOISE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   General Prohibitions: No person shall make or cause to be made any
noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort,
repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of any person, or precludes their
enjoyment of property or affects their property's value.
      The general prohibition applies to all noise plainly audible across
property boundaries or through partitions common to two (2) or more persons
within a building between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions
listed in the following subsections.
   B.   Specific Restrictions: The following acts are declared to be unlawful:
      1.   Sound Generating Devices: Radios, Television Sets, Musical
Instruments, Tape or Record Players, Amplifiers, Electronic Devices, and other
Sound Generating Devices. Operating or permitting the use or operation of any
such device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as
to be plainly audible across property boundaries or through partitions common
to two (2) or more persons within a building.
      2.   Domestic Power Tools: Operating or permitting the use or operation
of any mechanically powered saw, drill, sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool,
or similar device used outdoors between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in
such a manner as to be plainly audible across property boundaries.
      3.   Construction: Operating or permitting the operation of any tool or
equipment used in or related to construction, drilling or demolition between
the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Monday - Saturday and outside 10:00 a.m.
to 5:00 p.m. on Sundays, in such a manner as to be plainly audible across
property boundaries. "Equipment" shall include the use of helicopters for
construction purposes.
      4.   Horns And Signaling Devices: Operating a horn or other audible
signaling device on any motor vehicle except when necessary for safe operation
of the vehicle or traffic, in an emergency, or when required by law.
      5.   Motor Vehicles: This section shall apply to the total noise from a
motor vehicle or combination of vehicles and shall not be construed as limiting
or precluding the enforcement of any other provision of this chapter relating
to mufflers or noise control.
         a.   No person shall operate or use nor shall any person cause, allow,
permit, or fail to control the operation or use of any motor vehicle upon any
public property, public or private right-of-way:
            (1)   Unless the noise control system is in constant operation and
free of defects that affect sound reduction;
            (2)   With any cut out, bypass or similar device which increases
exhaust sound levels;
         b.   When the noise control system has been modified, punctured, or
rendered inoperative.
         c.   Defect In Vehicle: No person shall operate nor shall any person
cause, allow, permit, or fail to control the operation or use of any motor
vehicle that emits excessive or unusual noises because of disrepair or mode of
operation.
      6.   Shouting And Loud Conversations: No person shall vocalize at levels
which amount to a plainly audible noise from a distance of one hundred (100)
feet or more for a duration longer than five (5) minutes or engage in loud
talking or yelling that is plainly audible across property boundaries between
the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      7.   Fireworks: Noise from fireworks unless authorized elsewhere in Town
code or Utah law. (Ord. 2022-O-5, 10-12-2022)
5-3B-2: PENALTY:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided within the Alta Municipal Code, any
person, entity or organization who shall violate any provisions of this chapter
shall be fined in the amount set forth in the consolidated fee schedule or
section
1-4-1.
      1.   A first offense under this chapter will result in a warning to
educate the person or entity of noise restrictions in the Town.
      2.   A second offense within thirty (30) days of a warning, or additional
violations of this section, will result in the maximum penalty listed in the
fee schedule for violation of this chapter.
      3.   A property owner that receives a warning for a violation of this
chapter must schedule an inspection with Town staff, and submit a noise
mitigation plan, to ensure the property owner has taken reasonable steps to
minimize noise generated at the property.
   B.   A person, entity or organization in violation of any provisions of this
chapter may be subject to a criminal citation as provided in section
1-4-1, or a civil citation at the Town's discretion. Each day, or each separate
incident within a day, of such unlawful activity as is prohibited shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   C.   In the event repeated violations persist by a person, entity, or
organization, in addition to the fines or fees assessed for each day the noise
continues, the Town may enforce compliance of this section through criminal,
civil, or administrative process, including increased fines, revocation of a
Town issued permit, and obtaining a court order or injunction. (Ord. 2022-O-5,
10-12-2022)
5-3B-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence
of an emergency, or the emission of sound in the performance of work to prevent
or alleviate physical harm or property damage threatened or caused by a public
calamity or other emergency, such as standby power generation equipment, and
water or waste pumps during an outage or emergency.
   B.   Noise resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when responding
to an emergency call or in time of an emergency.
   C.   Activities related to avalanche mitigation, snow plowing or removal.
   D.   Activities related to Alta Ski Lifts winter operations.
   E.   Noise resulting from lawful fireworks used for celebration of an
official holiday.
      The Town may grant a permit for activities and times outside this chapter
upon application and compliance with requirements set by the Town. The
application must be a written request describing the activity, date, times,
etc., and must be submitted at least seven (7) days in advance of the activity
or as soon as a date/time for the activity is known. The permitted times may be
altered due to unforeseen circumstances or exigencies.
      Such review includes proposed actions to be taken by the applicant
designed to minimize noise and adverse health impacts of their proposed actions
on the community. Such permits shall not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days
in duration. The Town may alter the permitted times due to exigent or
unforeseen circumstances. The point of contact to obtain a permit is the Town
Clerk during business hours and the Alta Marshall's Office outside of business
hours for exigent or unforeseen circumstances.
      If an application is denied, the applicant may appeal the denial under
Title 10 Chapter 5 "Appeal Authority." (Ord. 2022-O-5, 10-12-2022)
ARTICLE C.MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3C-1: Unlawful Use Of Public Property
5-3C-2: Firearms And Weapons
5-3C-3: Hunting Restrictions Within Town Limits
5-3C-4: Sale Of Explosives Prohibited
5-3C-5: Parades, Marches And Public Demonstrations
5-3C-6: Skiing And Other Recreational Activities
5-3C-7: Fire Restrictions
5-3C-7.1: Findings
5-3C-7.2: Definitions
5-3C-7.3: Fire Restrictions
5-3C-7.4: Sale Or Use Of Fireworks
5-3C-7.5: Exemptions
5-3C-7.6: Penalty
5-3C-1: UNLAWFUL USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Public Property Defined: For the purpose of this section, "public
property" means any publicly owned property, except the traveled portion of
public streets, and includes any park, sidewalk, curb or any part of any public
right of way devoted to any planting or parklike use. (1980 Code § 13-351)
   B.   Prohibited Acts: On any public property, it shall be a class C
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to: (1980 Code § 13-352; amd. 2010 Code)
      1.   Wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, displace or
remove any building, railing, bench, paving, paving material, water line or any
facilities or property and equipment of any public utilities or parts or
appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards, whether temporary or
permanent, monuments, stakes, posts or other boundary markers, wall or rock
border, or other structures or equipment, facilities or public property or
appurtenances whatever, either real or personal.
      2.   Soil or litter public restrooms and washrooms.
      3.   Dig and remove any sand, soil, rock, stones, trees, shrubs or
plants, down timber or other wood or materials, or make any excavation by tool,
equipment, blasting or other means or agency, unless permission is obtained.
      4.   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind,
whether permanent or temporary in character, any tent, fly or windbreak, or run
or string any rope, cord or wire into, upon or across any public property,
except with special permit.
      5.   Urinate or defecate, except in a public restroom in receptacles
placed there for such purpose.
      6.   Damage, cut, carve, burn, transplant or remove any tree or plant or
injure the bark or pick the flowers or seeds of any tree or plant. No person
shall attach any rope, wire or other contrivance to any tree or plant. No
person shall dig in or otherwise disturb, or in any other way injure or impair
the natural beauty or usefulness of any park area. This subsection shall not
apply to any person authorized to perform the act proscribed.
      7.   Climb any tree or walk, stand or sit on monuments, fountains,
railings, fences, planted areas or upon any other property not designed or
customarily used for such purposes or to intentionally stand, sit or lie in or
upon any street, sidewalk, stairway or crosswalk so as to prevent free passage
of persons or vehicles passing over, along or across any street, sidewalk,
stairway or crosswalk.
      8.   Drop, throw, place, discard, dump, leave or otherwise deposit any
bottles, broken glass, garbage, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish,
waste, refuse or other trash on any public property except in waste containers
provided therefor. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters
contiguous to any park or planted area or left anywhere on the grounds thereof.
      9.   Sleep on seats, benches, sidewalks, curbs, planters, walls or other
areas.
      10.   Expose or offer for sale any article or thing, or station or place
any stand, cart or vehicle for the transportation, sale or display of any such
article or thing, without first obtaining a license, except that the governing
body may exempt designated areas from this subsection by resolution on such
terms and conditions as it may prescribe.
      11.   To beg or to go from door to door of private homes or commercial
and business establishments or place himself in or upon any public way or
public place to beg or to receive money or other things of value. (1980 Code
§ 13-352)
5-3C-2: FIREARMS AND WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge within the town limits any
firearm of any description, including, but not limited to, shotguns, rifles,
CO2 guns, bow and arrows, slingshots or flippers; provided, that this section
shall not apply to the use of firearms by persons described in Utah Code
Annotated section 76-10-523 or bow and arrows used in legal archery hunting as
allowed by town ordinance; also, that the town council may authorize firing on
designated target ranges. An offense under this section is a class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2010 Code)
5-3C-3: HUNTING RESTRICTIONS WITHIN TOWN LIMITS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, for the purposes of
trapping, capturing or hunting any animal or bird of any type, in any area
within the confines of the corporate limits of the town of Alta, whether on
public or private land, any gun, revolver, or firearm of any kind or nature, or
air gun, flipper or bow and arrow, or any other such type of instrument
designed to propel or throw missiles, or any spring gun, net, trap, snare or
similar device, except that hunting with a bow and arrow shall be permitted on
United States forest service property east and southeast of the Albion Basin
Road and campground in accordance with all regulations promulgated by the state
of Utah. Bow and arrow hunting shall additionally be permitted on the north
side of the Twin Lakes Pass road, also known as Michigan City Road, and
northeast portions of Grizzly Gulch to the connection with United States forest
service property described above. It shall be unlawful to hunt, by any means,
within the described areas within six hundred feet (600') of the Albion Basin
or Twin Lakes Pass roads, campground, or any home or cabin. The area within
which the bow and arrow hunting may occur is identified, more specifically on
the attached map, which is attached to the ordinance codified herein as
"exhibit A" and incorporated herein by reference.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall prevent the owner of private property to
post "No Hunting" notices on their lands as allowed by Utah code.
   C.   Any violation of this section is a class C misdemeanor. (Ord. 2015-O-1,
8-28-2015)
5-3C-4: SALE OF EXPLOSIVES PROHIBITED:
It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to sell, transfer, distribute, exchange or
give to any other person "explosives", as identified in the adopted fire code.
(1980 Code § 13-362; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2015-O-1, 8-28-2015)
5-3C-5: PARADES, MARCHES AND PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to conduct a parade, event, march or public
demonstration which could impede traffic or impact health and environment of
the town without first obtaining a permit from the town. (1980 Code § 13-363;
amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2015-O-1, 8-28-2015)
   B.   Information Required: The applicant shall provide the town clerk with a
written application for the parade, event, march or demonstration stating:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The name and address of the sponsor;
      3.   The purpose;
      4.   The date of the proposed parade, march, event or demonstration;
      5.   The location and route.
   C.   Referral To Marshal: The application shall be referred to the town
marshal, who shall determine whether the parade, march, event or demonstration
constitutes a threat to the peace, health or safety of the community.
   D.   Conditions For Denial; Bond May Be Required: A permit shall not be
denied except on a showing that the proposed parade, march, event or
demonstration constitutes an immediate threat to the safety of the community.
The town may require a posting of bond.
   E.   State Highways: The town marshal may direct parades, demonstrations,
events or marches to be held on streets other than state highways where the
application is not made at least seven (7) days prior to the parade, march,
event or demonstration. (1980 Code § 13-363; amd. Ord. 2015-O-1, 8-28-2015)
5-3C-6: SKIING AND OTHER RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Unsafe Areas:
      1.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person for the purpose of
skiing or other reason, to wilfully go upon any area designated by the town
marshal as unsafe.
      2.   Exemption: Nothing herein provided shall, however, be deemed to
apply to ski patrolmen, officers of the national park or forest service, the
town marshal and his deputies, and other duly authorized personnel. (1980 Code
§ 13-364; amd. Ord. 2015-O-1, 8-28-2015)
      3.   Penalty: The penalty for violations of any provisions of this
subsection shall be a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 13-364; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2015-O-1, 8-28-
2015)
   B.   Leaving Scene Of Skiing Accident:
      1.   Purpose: In order to provide for, preserve, protect and promote the
public health, safety, order, morals and the general welfare of the town, and
specifically to protect residents and guests of the town who participate in the
skiing and other alpine recreational activities provided in the town, the town
council deems it appropriate to enact an ordinance prohibiting any person from
leaving the scene of a skiing accident under the circumstances herein provided.
(Ord., 5-8-1980; amd. Ord. 2015-O-1, 8-28-2015)
      2.   Skier Duty In Event Of Collision:
         a.   Every person involved in a collision with another person while in
the act of skiing shall immediately stop and remain at the scene of the
accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of subsection B2b of this
section. Any person failing to comply with this section shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
         b.   Every person involved in a collision with another person while in
the act of skiing shall upon request provide his name and address and if
available, exhibit his identification to the person struck and shall render to
any person injured in such an accident reasonable assistance, including the
making of arrangements for the transportation of such person to a medical
facility for treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary, or
if such treatment is requested by the injured party. Any person failing to
comply with the requirements of this subsection shall be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 5-8-1980; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2015-O-1, 8-28-2015)
5-3C-7: FIRE RESTRICTIONS:
5-3C-7.1: FINDINGS:
The Town Council finds that certain areas exist in the Town and that
preservation of public health, safety and welfare requires the restriction of
fireworks, smoking and other fires in such areas and certain surrounding areas
as specified below, to reduce the risk of potentially devastating wildfires in
the Town. (Ord. 2021-O-3, 6-30-2021)
5-3C-7.2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in sections
5-3C-7.1 through
5-3C-7.6, the following definition shall apply:
 
                  A. Ravines, gullies, hillsides, vacant land, or mountainous
                  areas where natural vegetation exists (including oak brush,
                  conifers, sage brush, and other indigenous trees and plants),
                  such that a distinct fire hazard is clearly evident to a
                  reasonable person, and where that area is within the Town.
RESTRICTED AREAS: B. Without limiting the foregoing, RESTRICTED AREAS shall
                  also include those areas designated within the Town as a fire
                  hazard on an annual basis by the Unified Fire Authority on
                  maps conveyed to and approved by the council in an open
                  meeting and posted and made available on the Town's website
                  and in the offices of the Town Clerk. (Ord. 2021-O-3, 6-30-
                  2021)
 
5-3C-7.3: FIRE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The following restrictions on open flames and smoking are imposed on,
over and within 300 feet of all restricted areas:
      1.   Setting, building, maintaining, attending or using open flames of
any kind is prohibited, except campfires built within the facilities provided
for them in improved campgrounds, picnic areas or permanently improved places
of habitation; and
      2.   Smoking is prohibited, except within an enclosed vehicle or
building, a developed recreation site or while stopped in the center of an area
of at least ten feet in diameter that is barren or cleared to mineral soil or
is covered by concrete or asphalt.
   B.   The following restrictions on fireworks, tracer ammunition or other
pyrotechnic devices are imposed:
      1.   Discharging or using any kind of aerial device firework, "Class C
common state approved explosive", or Class C dangerous explosive" when
prohibited by Town Resolution or Ordinance because of hazardous environmental
conditions.
      2.   Discharging or using any kind of tracer ammunition or other
pyrotechnic devices on, over or within three hundred feet of any restricted
area is prohibited; and
      3.    Discharging or using any kind of class C common state-approved
explosives on, over or within 300 feet of any restricted area is prohibited.
   C.   The following definitions are applicable to this section:
 
AERIAL DEVICE FIREWORK:       As defined in sections R710-2-3 of the
                              Utah Administrative Rules, as amended.
CLASS C COMMON STATE-APPROVED As defined in section 53-7-202(5), Utah
EXPLOSIVES:                   Code Annotated, as amended.
 
   D.   The restrictions in this section
5-3C-7.3 "Fire Restrictions" are effective from June 1 through October 31 each
year, unless modified by the council. (Ord. 2021-O-3, 6-30-2021; amd. Ord.
2022-O-4, 4-13-2022)
5-3C-7.4: SALE OR USE OF FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership or corporation to offer
for sale, expose for sale, sell, possess, or use, or explode any toy cannon in
which explosives are used; the type of balloon which requires fire underneath
to propel the same; firecrackers, torpedoes; sky rockets, Roman candles, bombs,
or other fireworks of like construction, or any fireworks containing any
explosive or inflammable compound or any tablets or other device commonly used
and sold as fireworks containing nitrates, chlorates, oxaiates, sulphides of
lead, barium, antimony, arsenic, mercury, nitroglycerine, phosphorus or any
compound containing any of the same or other explosives, or any substance or
combination of substances, or articles prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation, other than aviation and railroad signal light flares, except as in
this section. This section shall not prohibit the use of toy pistols, toy
canes, toy guns or sparklers. (Ord. 2021-O-3, 6-30-2021)
5-3C-7.5: EXEMPTIONS:
The following persons are exempt from the prohibitions in
5-3C-7 Fire Restrictions:
   A.   Persons with a permit from the Town, from the State of Utah or the
United States of America, specifically authorizing the prohibited act at the
specific location; and
   B.   Any town, state or federal forestry or firefighting officer or
firefighting forces, including the Unified Fire Authority, or any peace
officer, in the performance of an official duty. (Ord. 2021-O-3, 6-30-2021)
5-3C-7.6: PENALTY:
Each violation of this section shall be a Class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 2021-O-3,
6-30-2021)
CHAPTER 4
INTERLODGE TRAVEL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Authority To Prohibit Outdoor Travel
5-4-2: Outdoor Travel Prohibited; Penalty
5-4-3: Exemption
5-4-4: Posting Of Signs Required And Notifications; Penalty
5-4-5: Enforcement
5-4-1: AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT OUTDOOR TRAVEL:
The Town Marshal shall have the authority to prohibit all travel by any person
outside any public or private structure or building, and shall be empowered to
prohibit any vehicular or pedestrian traffic within the limits of the Town
whenever officials determine such travel is unsafe by reason of hazardous
avalanche conditions or activities undertaken for avalanche control and
prevention. (1980 Code § 11-331; amd. Ord. 2023-O-6, 8-9-2023)
5-4-2: OUTDOOR TRAVEL PROHIBITED; PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully go outside of any public or
private structure within the Town or to engage in vehicular or pedestrian
traffic outside of any building whenever such travel shall have been designated
as unsafe and prohibited by the Town Marshal. Violation of this section is a
Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of this Code. (1980 Code § 11-332; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2023-O-6, 8-9-
2023)
5-4-3: EXEMPTION:
Interlodge restrictions shall not apply to ski patrol employees, officers of
the US Forest Service, supervised Utah Department of Transportation personnel,
Unified Fire Authority personnel, law enforcement personnel, or Town Marshal
employees. The exemption of personnel in this section only applies to on-duty
employees of the named entities acting in the scope of employment.
The Alta Ski Lift Company may authorize necessary travel with the approval of
the Marshal within their special use permit area boundaries provided that they
coordinate with the Town Marshal's Office and UDOT Avalanche Forecasters during
explosive avalanche mitigation work. Necessary travel is defined as essential
to the basic operation of facilities and not conducted as a convenience. The
Alta Ski Lift Company shall maintain accountability and tracking of travel
during Interlodge periods. The above exemption for the Alta Ski Lift Company is
conditioned on a written indemnity agreement between the Town and Alta Ski Lift
Company.
The Town Manager or Town Marshal shall also have the power to designate
individuals on a one time basis as exempt from interlodge restrictions. (Ord.
2006-O-2, 3-9-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-O-6, 8-9-2023)
5-4-4: POSTING OF SIGNS REQUIRED AND NOTIFICATIONS; PENALTY:
All owners, operators and/or managers of any building located within the Town,
after receipt of notice by the Town Marshal's Office or Deputy, shall post on
or near, in a conspicuous place, each unlocked exit or doorway leading to the
outside of each building, a sign stating that all outdoor or interlodge travel
is prohibited by order of the Town Marshal. Each sign required hereunder shall
be of a nature, size and substance approved by the Town Marshal. It shall be
unlawful for any owner, operator or manager to willfully fail to post the
approved signs in the manner required hereby.
All owners, operators and/or managers of any building located within the Town
shall also register their contact information with the Marshal's Office for
interlodge closure notifications and shall be responsible for confirming that
interlodge travel is permitted before engaging in or allowing outdoor travel.
Violation of this section is a Class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-O-2, 8-14-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-O-6, 8-9-2023)
5-4-5: ENFORCEMENT:
The Town Marshal is hereby empowered to deputize for such length of time as
necessary, any suitable person to enforce compliance with this section. (1980
Code § 11-335; amd. Ord. 2023-O-6, 8-9-2023)
TITLE 6
VEHICLES, PARKING AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted By Reference
6-1-2: Liability
6-1-3: Travel Restrictions During Winter Driving Conditions
6-1-4: Parking And General Regulations
6-1-5: Fines
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah traffic code (Utah Code Annotated title 41), as amended,
are hereby adopted by the town. Any and all violations thereof shall be
considered violations of this chapter, and each such violation shall subject
the violator thereof to penalty provisions as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, unless otherwise provided by state statute. (2010 Code)
6-1-2: LIABILITY:
The fact that an automobile is parked in violation of Town Code shall be
sufficient to constitute a rebuttable presumption that the registered owner was
in control of the automobile at the time it was parked.
Any criminal citation under this chapter shall be classified as an infraction.
(Ord. 2022-O-6, 11-9-2022)
6-1-3: TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS DURING WINTER DRIVING CONDITIONS:
   A.   Authority To Impose Travel Restrictions: During winter driving
conditions, the town marshal, or designated deputy marshal, Salt Lake County
sheriff, or designated deputy, or an authorized representative from the state
department of transportation, may order travel restrictions on motor vehicles
such that any vehicle which is not equipped with four (4) wheel or all-wheel
drive capability, or which does not have its tires adequately chained, shall
not enter upon any public right of way until the travel restriction has been
lifted.
   B.   Notice To Motorists: Prior to imposing the travel restrictions set
forth in subsection A of this section, the town marshal, or deputy, shall cause
to be activated signs which shall notify motorists of the said restrictions.
Said signs shall be installed by the state department of transportation and
shall comply with its regulations.
(Ord. 2000-O-2, 6-15-2000; amd. Ord. 2022-O-6, 11-9-2022)
6-1-4: PARKING AND GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Signs; Erection: The town council may authorize or direct any person
employed by the town to erect or install any sign or traffic control device
required to enforce the provisions of this section.
   B.   Properly Posted Areas: It shall be a violation, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to park or leave standing at any time a "motor vehicle", as
defined in the state traffic code, as adopted by the town, in any place when
properly posted, except when necessary to avoid interference with other traffic
or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device.
   C.   Blocking Streets Or Highways: In addition to the parking provisions
contained in the state traffic code, as adopted by the town, it shall be a
violation, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to:
      1.   Remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway in such a
manner as to obstruct the free passage of vehicular or pedestrian traffic
thereon.
      2.   Willfully remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway
in such manner for more than one minute after being requested to move by any
police officer.
      3.   Willfully remain on such street or highway in such manner as to
obstruct the free passage of any person or vehicle into or out of any property
abutting upon the street or highway or any property having access to such
street or highway.
   D.   Unlawful Parking:
      1.   Parking At Curb: No motor vehicle shall be parked with the left side
of the vehicle next to the curb, except on one-way streets. It shall be
unlawful to stand or park any motor vehicle in a street other than parallel
with the curb and with the two (2) right wheels of the vehicle within twelve
inches (12") of the regularly established curb line, except on those streets
which have been marked for angle parking; then vehicles shall be parked at the
angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
      2.   Vehicles For Sale: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any
street for the purpose of displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle from
which merchandise is peddled on any business street.
      3.   Loading Zone: When so posted, it shall be unlawful for the driver of
a passenger vehicle to stand or park such vehicle for a period of time longer
than is permitted by the posted sign for the loading or unloading of
passengers, or for the driver to stand or park any freight carrying motor
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary to load, unload and
deliver materials in any place designated as a loading zone and marked as such.
      4.   Parking Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, except
physicians on emergency calls or designated emergency vehicles, when properly
posted, to park any motor vehicle on any street in violation of the posted
restrictions.
      5.   Alleys: No person shall park a motor vehicle within an alley in such
manner or under such conditions as to leave less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway available for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position
as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
      6.   Cab Stands; Bus Stands: No motor vehicle other than a licensed
taxicab shall be parked in any area designated by ordinance as a taxicab stand
and no vehicle other than a bus shall be parked in a place so designated as a
bus loading zone.
      7.   Real Property Owner To Regulate Traffic: Nothing in this subsection
shall be construed to prevent the owner of real property, used by the public
for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of the owner and not as a matter
of right, from prohibiting such use, or from requiring other, or additional
conditions specified in this subsection, or otherwise regulating such use as
may be deemed best to such owner.
      8.   Driving To Conform To Existing Conditions: Every person driving a
vehicle or riding a bicycle on a street or alley shall operate the same at a
speed and in a manner which is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and
having regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing, and every
driver of a vehicle, in compliance with legal requirements and the duty to use
due care, shall use every reasonable means to avoid endangering or colliding
with any person, vehicle or other.
      9.   Marshal Or Deputy To Move Vehicle Illegally Parked: Whenever the
town marshal or any deputy finds a vehicle parked or standing in violation of
any of the provisions of this subsection, such office is hereby authorized to
move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move the same.
      10.   Leaving Vehicle Unattended In Specified Areas: No person will stop
and leave his vehicle unattended in any of the following places:
         a.   At any place where official signs or traffic markings prohibiting
stopping, standing or parking exist.
         b.   On the south side (downhill side) of the state highway running
through the town between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M.
      11.   Parking Not To Obstruct Traffic: No person shall park any vehicle
upon a street in such a manner or under such condition as to leave available
less than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for free movement of
vehicular traffic.
      12.   Collision With Unattended Vehicles Or Objects: The driver of any
vehicle which collides with any vehicle or object which is unattended shall
immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator
or owner of such vehicle or object of the name and address of the driver and
owner of such vehicle striking the unattended vehicle, or shall leave a written
notice firmly attached in a conspicuous place in or on the vehicle or object
struck, giving the name, address and telephone listing, if any, of the driver
and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking.
      13.   Vehicles To Be Moved After Snowfall: Every person with a vehicle
parked on the streets or public parking areas of the town must move such
vehicle after every snowfall, if requested to do so by the town marshal or
deputy. Such vehicles must be moved within twelve (12) hours of this
notification. In the event that the owner or operator of such vehicle cannot be
located, then said vehicle may be impounded in accordance with subsection E3 of
this section. The town marshal or deputy is hereby given specific authority to
require such vehicles to be moved into an area designated as a "no parking"
zone and to further require that said vehicles be removed from the "no parking"
zone within a designated period thereafter.
      14.   Moving Or Defacing Parking Control Signs: It shall be unlawful
under this chapter for any person to remove, relocate, change, alter or deface
any signs, barriers or other structures, whether of a temporary or permanent
nature, placed under the authority of the town marshal or deputy for the
purpose of traffic control and the regulation of parking upon the streets or
public parking areas of the town.
   E.   Parking Restrictions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to:
         a.   Leave a vehicle unattended in areas marked "no parking" or on the
south side of State Highway 210 from twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M., between November 1 and May 1.
         b.   Leave a vehicle unattended in a manner which obstructs traffic.
An unobstructed width of highway shall be maintained opposite any standing,
unattended vehicle for free passage of other vehicles and a clear view of such
unattended vehicle shall be available from a distance of two hundred feet
(200') in each direction.
         c.   Fail to move an unattended vehicle within twelve (12) hours of a
snowstorm which deposits twelve inches (12") or more of snow.
         d.   Leave any vehicle unattended on the north side of State Highway
210 which is not parked within five feet (5') of any existing snow banks, which
snow banks shall be determined by both sign placements and flag placements as
established by employees of the state department of transportation.
         e.   Fail to remove snow from the surface of all motor vehicles parked
on State Highway 210 within twelve (12) hours of any snowfall. In addition,
within the same twelve (12) hour period, a path of at least two feet (2') in
width shall be cleared around any such parked vehicle in a manner which allows
access to it. Snow shall be cleared off of a parked vehicle so that license
plates can be clearly identified.
         f.   Leave any motor vehicle unattended within the town between
November 1 and May 1 which is not equipped with snow tires or chains on the
tires providing the power from the drive train.
      2.   Violations of this subsection shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section 1-4-1 of this code.
      3.   In addition to citing a vehicle under this subsection, any peace
officer who finds a vehicle in violation of this subsection may move the
vehicle, cause the vehicle to be moved, or require the driver or other person
responsible for the vehicle to move the vehicle to a safe position off the
highway. A peace officer who causes to be removed a vehicle under this section
shall have the vehicle removed by a tow truck service which meets standards
established by the state department of transportation.
   F.   Enforcement: The town of Alta may designate parking enforcement
personnel to enforce town parking regulations and assist with parking and
traffic management under the supervision of the marshal for enforcement of this
chapter. The marshal may delegate to such parking enforcement personnel the
authority to enforce any regulations and restrictions contained in this
section.
(1980 Code §§ 11-341 - 11-344; amd. Ord. 1997-O-2, 1-9-1997; Ord. 2009-O-1, 5-
14-2009; 2010 Code; Ord. 2011-O-4, 11-10-2011; Ord. 2022-O-6, 11-9-2022)
6-1-5: FINES:
The fine for a violation of this Chapter is as follows:
 
Vehicle/Parking Violations: 6-1-3(C) $75.00/per violation; or
                                     $150 if not paid within 10 days.
 
(Ord. 2022-O-6, 11-9-2022)
CHAPTER 2
OVER SNOW VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Registration Required; Safety Equipment; Fee
6-2-3: Exemptions
6-2-4: Regulations And Requirements
6-2-5: Violations; Penalty
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof, with kitchen and bathroom facilities,
which is used for residential occupancy.
OVER SNOW VEHICLE (OSV): Any motorized vehicle, including, but not limited to,
a snowmobile or snowcat that is specifically designed for, or that by its
intended use, is operated in or over snow.
PROPERTY OWNER: As used in this chapter, the lawful owner and occupant,
including joint owners, renters and tenants of real property in the town that
can only be accessed in the winter by an over snow route, and that has a
dwelling or lawfully licensed business constructed on the property.
TOWN MARSHAL: The marshal or any deputy marshal employed by the town of Alta.
(Ord. 2009-O-1, 5-14-2009)
6-2-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED; SAFETY EQUIPMENT; FEE:
   A.   Registration Decal; Display: No OSV may be operated within the town
boundaries without having first obtained a registration decal from the town
marshal. Registration decals must be displayed either on the windshield or
adjacent to the state off highway vehicle registration sticker. Registration
decals are not transferable.
   B.   Persons To Whom Issued; Exceptions: Registration decals shall only be
issued to a "property owner", as defined in section
6-2-1 of this chapter. The town marshal may waive the registration requirement
in circumstances where the use of a temporary or loaned OSV is necessary to
access a property owner's dwelling or lawfully licensed business, provided the
operator of any such OSV complies with all other requirements of this chapter.
An OSV may not be operated on a temporary basis under this subsection for a
period longer than thirty (30) days.
   C.   Required Safety Equipment: No OSV may be registered without the
required safety items being present and operational. The following safety items
shall be required of all permitted OSVs:
      1.   All OSVs must be equipped with operable headlights.
      2.   Snowmobiles must have an orange or yellow fluorescent flag which is
at least eight inches (8") in length and six inches (6") in height at one end,
rectangular or triangular in shape, and affixed to a flexible staff at least
forty eight inches (48") in height mounted to the rear of the snowmobile.
      3.   Snowcats must be equipped with at least one rotating or strobe
warning light which is visible from all directions.
      4.   When any OSV is manufactured with a horn or similar audible device,
that device shall be maintained in working order.
      5.   Any required warning light or headlight shall be activated at all
times while an OSV is in motion.
   D.   State Registration: When required by state law, a state division of
motor vehicles off highway registration must be obtained and displayed on the
OSV prior to issuance of the town registration decal.
   E.   Number Issued: There shall be no more than four (4) registration decals
issued to an individual property owner, unless authorized by the town marshal.
   F.   Fees: No fees will be required to obtain the town registration decal.
   G.   Previously Issued Decals: An OSV registration decal which has been
issued by the town before the adoption date hereof shall be valid until October
31, 2009 and thereafter shall be invalid.
   H.   Validity: An OSV registration decal issued pursuant to this chapter
shall remain valid until such time as rendered invalid by: subsequently adopted
applicable ordinance; judicial suspension or revocation pursuant to subsection
6-2-5D of this chapter or other applicable law; or change in circumstances such
that a person is no longer a "property owner", as defined in section
6-2-1 of this chapter. Upon any transfer of ownership of a property, dwelling
or OSV, the town OSV registration decal shall become invalid. (Ord. 2009-O-1,
5-14-2009)
6-2-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Section
6-2-2 of this chapter does not apply to the Alta Ski Lift Company; provided,
that all OSVs are clearly marked as property of the Alta Ski Lift Company.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter restricts the use of or requires town
registration of OSVs owned and operated by the United States government, the
state or any of its political subdivisions, utility corporations, or other duly
authorized personnel as determined by the town marshal when said OSVs are
operated in the course of public duties. (Ord. 2009-O-1, 5-14-2009)
6-2-4: REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Decal Required: No OSV may be operated without a registration decal
issued by the town marshal.
   B.   Lawful Use And Purpose: OSV travel may not be conducted for purposes
other than access to and from a property owner's dwelling or lawfully licensed
business to which the OSV is registered. Necessary travel to the dwelling or
lawfully licensed business of another may only be conducted by use of a
permitted OSV under circumstances where no other mode of motor vehicle
transportation is possible.
   C.   Under The Influence: A person under the influence of alcohol or drugs
may not operate an OSV. The standard for determining the degree of impairment
or intoxication is determined by Utah Code Annotated section 41-6a-502, or any
amendment thereto or replacement thereof.
   D.   Watershed Regulations; State Law: A person may not operate an OSV in
any manner prohibited by Salt Lake City watershed regulations or applicable
state law.
   E.   Parking: No OSV may be parked away from a property owner's dwelling or
lawfully licensed business to which it is registered in a manner as to block,
impede or otherwise hinder travel of others.
   F.   Maintaining Visibility: An OSV parked anywhere other than at the
property owner's dwelling or lawfully licensed business to which it is
registered must be reasonably kept clear of snow or be marked in such a manner
to remain visible to other OSV operators, pedestrians, the town marshal, and
outdoor recreationists.
   G.   Reckless Operation; Speed: No person may operate an OSV in a reckless
manner or travel at a rate of speed that is inappropriate or unnecessary for
navigating the terrain or present conditions.
   H.   Safety Equipment: No person may operate an OSV without operable safety
items present and in operation as required by this chapter. (Ord. 2009-O-1, 5-
14-2009)
6-2-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   A violation of section
6-2-2 of this chapter is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Every subsequent violation of section
6-2-2 of this chapter by a person previously convicted of a section
6-2-2 violation shall be deemed a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Violations of section
6-2-4 of this chapter are classified as follows:
      1.   A violation of subsection 6-2-4A of this chapter is an infraction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.   A violation of subsection 6-2-4B of this chapter is a class C
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      3.   A violation of subsection 6-2-4C of this chapter is a class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      4.   A violation of subsection 6-2-4D of this chapter is a class C
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      5.   A violation of subsection 6-2-4E of this chapter is an infraction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      6.   A violation of subsection 6-2-4F of this chapter is an infraction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      7.   A violation of subsection 6-2-4G of this chapter is a class C
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      8.   A violation of subsection 6-2-4H of this chapter is an infraction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Violations of subsection 6-2-4H of this chapter may be
disposed of with a warning citation; provided, that corrective actions and/or
repairs are demonstrated to the town marshal within fourteen (14) days of date
the warning citation is issued. If corrective actions and/or repairs are not
taken within the fourteen (14) days, the violation of subsection 6-2-4H of this
chapter will proceed as an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2009-O-1, 5-14-2009; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Impound: The town marshal may impound any OSV found to be in violation
of any section of this chapter when the violation occurs away from the property
owner's dwelling or lawfully licensed business, and the town marshal may cause
the OSV to be stored at a place of safekeeping. The owner of the impounded OSV
shall be responsible for all fees and fines associated with recovery,
transportation and storage of the impounded OSV.
   D.   Suspension Or Revocation: The justice court judge may order the
suspension or revocation of a town registration decal upon conviction of a
violation of this chapter, and may impose conditions for reinstatement of the
registration decal. (Ord. 2009-O-1, 5-14-2009)
CHAPTER 3
PERMIT PARKING
SECTION:
6-3-1: Application Of The Code
6-3-2: Definitions
6-3-3: Parking Designation Authority
6-3-4: Parking Area And Dates
6-3-5: Regulations Not Exclusive
6-3-6: Parking Permit Issuance
6-3-7: Parking Permit Fees
6-3-8: Permit Parking
6-3-9: Revocation Of Permit
6-3-10: Presumption Of Identity
6-3-11: Unlawful Activities Penalty
6-3-1: APPLICATION OF THE CODE:
This Section is applicable on all public streets and public parking facilities
within the Town of Alta as now constituted or as subsequently amended by
annexation, agreement, or disconnection. (Ord. 2021-O-7, 9-8-2021)
6-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section:
 
PARKING PLAN: The written program designated and published by the Town to
              administer permit parking. (Ord. 2021-O-7, 9-8-2021)
 
6-3-3: PARKING DESIGNATION AUTHORITY:
The Town of Alta will designate the permit area, process, and effective dates
in consultation with the United States Forest Service and the Utah Department
of Transportation. (Ord. 2021-O-7, 9-8-2021)
6-3-4: PARKING AREA AND DATES:
   A.   The parking area consists of any public property within the control of
the Town of Alta.
   B.   Permitted parking is required from November 1 through May 31 each year
unless altered and announced by the municipality. (Ord. 2021-O-7, 9-8-2021)
6-3-5: REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The parking regulations established by this section are not all encompassing,
and additional regulations may be established by posting permanent or temporary
signs stating the additional regulation imposed, or by law enforcement
directing traffic during periods of heavy traffic volume or during periods of
emergencies, or during special events as designated by the municipality. (Ord.
2021-O-7, 9-8- 2021)
6-3-6: PARKING PERMIT ISSUANCE:
   A.   The number of permits available and the manner for allocating permits
will be approved by the Mayor.
   B.   The Town may contract with third party entities for the issuance,
administration, monitoring and collection of revenues to administer the parking
permit program.
   C.   Issuance of a permit shall not guarantee or reserve to the holder
thereof an on-street parking space within the designated permit parking area.
   D.   Issuance of a permit shall not release the permit holder or vehicle
operator from complying with Utah or Town of Alta traffic codes, or the Parking
and General Regulations in Alta Town Code 6-1-3.
   E.   Parking permits are not transferrable unless specifically authorized by
the Parking Plan. (Ord. 2021-O-7, 9-8-2021)
6-3-7: PARKING PERMIT FEES:
Fees associated with a parking permit shall be established by the municipality
by resolution of the Town Council. (Ord. 2021-O-7, 9-8-2021)
6-3-8: PERMIT PARKING:
   A.   A motor vehicle associated with a valid parking permit as provided for
in the Parking Plan shall be permitted to stand or be parked in the permit area
for which the permit has been issued without being limited by parking
regulations or prohibitions solely applicable to vehicles without a permit.
   B.   All other motor vehicles associated with a parking permit shall be
subject to citation and impoundment under Alta Town Code. (Ord. 2021-O-7, 9-8-
2021)
6-3-9: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Each person receiving a parking permit under this section shall, as a condition
of receiving and utilizing the same, agree to comply with the regulations
established for the designated area by the municipality. Any violation of these
regulations by a permit holder shall subject the holder to a forfeiture of the
permit on the following basis:
   A.   Upon conviction of a violation of 6.3.11, the court may suspend or
revoke permits issued under the Parking Plan. (Ord. 2021-O-7, 9-8-2021)
6-3-10: PRESUMPTION OF IDENTITY:
For any vehicle on any street or public parking facility which is parked in
violation of the regulations of this Title, it shall be presumed that the
registered owner of the vehicle parked the vehicle in violation of this Title,
or permitted others to park his vehicle in violation of this Title and the
registered owner is responsible for the violation and for the fine or civil
penalty imposed. (Ord. 2021- O-7, 9-8-2021)
6-3-11: UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES PENALTY:
   A.   It is unlawful and a violation of this section, unless expressly
provided to the contrary herein, for any person to stand or park a motor
vehicle or to cause the same to be done contrary to the parking regulations
established pursuant to the Parking Plan. Such violation shall be punishable as
a civil or criminal penalty at the Town's discretion.
   B.   It is unlawful and a violation of this section for a person to falsely
represent themselves as eligible for a parking permit, or to furnish false
information in an application therefor to the Town of Alta or its agents. Such
violation shall constitute a class B misdemeanor.
   C.   It is unlawful and a violation of this section for a person holding a
valid parking permit issued pursuant hereto to permit the use of such permit on
a motor vehicle other than that for which the permit is issued. Such conduct
shall constitute an unlawful act and violation of this section, both by the
person holding the valid parking permit and the person using the permit on a
motor vehicle other than that for which it is issued. Such violation shall be
punishable as a civil or criminal penalty at the Town's discretion.
   D.   It is unlawful and a violation of this section for a person to copy,
produce or otherwise bring into existence a facsimile or counterfeit parking
permit in order to evade parking regulations applicable in the Town of Alta
permit parking area. Such violation shall constitute a class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2021-O-7, 9-8-2021)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Removal Of Snow
7-1-2: Obstructions In Streets
7-1-3: Openings In Streets; Doors Obstructing
7-1-4: Discharge Of Water
7-1-5: Sidewalk Regulations
7-1-6: Clearing Snow From Building Exits
7-1-1: REMOVAL OF SNOW:
   A.   Failure To Remove Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for the owner,
occupant, lessor or agent of any property abutting on a paved sidewalk, to fail
to remove, or have removed from such paved sidewalk, all hail, snow, or sleet
thereon within a reasonable time after such snow, hail or sleet has fallen. In
the case of a storm between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M., such sidewalks shall be cleaned before nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. of the same day.
   B.   Depositing In Gutter Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person
removing snow from the sidewalk, to deposit snow, dirt, leaves or any other
material in the gutter so as to clog or prevent the free flow of water therein.
(1980 Code § 11-361)
7-1-2: OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control of any
premises to place or permit to be placed upon or in the sidewalk, parking area,
gutter or on the half of the street next to such premises:
   A.   Refuse: Any broken ware, glass, filth, rubbish, sweepings, refuse
matter, ice, snow, water, garbage, ashes, tin cans or other like substances.
   B.   Building Materials: Any wagons, lumber, wood boxes, fencing, building
material, dead trees, tree stumps, merchandise or other thing which shall
obstruct such public street, gutter, parking area or sidewalk, or any part
thereof, or the passage over and upon the same, or any part thereof, except as
expressly authorized by ordinance, without the permission of the town council
first had and obtained.
   C.   Permanent Or Temporary Structures: Any permanent or temporary
structure, mechanism, device, vehicle or other thing of any kind or character,
except trees planted pursuant to the provisions of applicable ordinances. (1980
Code § 11-362)
7-1-3: OPENINGS IN STREETS; DOORS OBSTRUCTING:
   A.   Cellars: It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building
having a cellar which opens upon any street or sidewalk to fail to keep the
door or other covering in good repair and safe for the passage of the customary
traffic on the street or sidewalk. If the owner or occupant of any such
building shall neglect or refuse to repair properly any such door or covering
within twenty four (24) hours after notice from the superintendent of streets
to do so, the superintendent shall forthwith cause such repairs to be made at
the expense of the owner or occupant.
   B.   Coal Holes: It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain coal holes or
other openings in streets or sidewalks, except with the special permission of
the town council, and under the direction and supervision of the superintendent
of streets. (1980 Code § 11-363)
   C.   Doors: It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having the control
or management of any alley, road or passageway to construct or hang gates or
doors to such alley, road or passageway so that the gates or doors thereto,
when open, shall project outwardly more than two feet (2') over or upon the
sidewalk beyond the property line. (1980 Code § 11-364)
7-1-4: DISCHARGE OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control of any
premises to fail, refuse or neglect to prevent water from the roof or eaves of
any house, building or other structure, or from any other source under the
control of such person, to be discharged upon the surface of any sidewalk.
(1980 Code § 11-365)
7-1-5: SIDEWALK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Driving Or Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or
park a self-propelled vehicle or lead, drive or ride any animal upon any
sidewalk, except across a sidewalk at established crossings. (1980 Code § 11-
366)
   B.   Businesses To Keep Clean: It shall be unlawful for any owners or
occupants of any place of business to refuse, neglect or fail to cause the
sidewalk abutting thereon to be swept or cleaned each morning before the hour
of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. (1980 Code § 11-367)
   C.   Placing Goods For Sale Or Show: No goods, wares or merchandise shall be
placed, maintained or permitted for sale or show in or on any parking area,
street or sidewalk beyond two feet (2') from the front line of the lot, without
first obtaining the written approval of the town council. Such approval shall
be granted only when such sale or show shall be a promotional activity not
exceeding forty eight (48) hours and when participated in by a majority of
firms seeking approval in their business areas. The town council's written
approval shall specifically provide that no goods, wares or merchandise shall
be placed in such a manner as to leave less than a six foot (6') passageway for
pedestrians. (1980 Code § 11-368)
   D.   Placing Goods For Receipt Or Delivery: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, or suffer to be placed or kept upon any sidewalk, any goods,
wares or merchandise which he may be receiving or delivering, without leaving a
foot passageway upon such sidewalk. It shall be unlawful for any person
receiving or delivering such goods, wares or merchandise to suffer the same to
be or remain on such sidewalk for a longer period than two (2) hours. (1980
Code § 11-369)
   E.   Playing: Every person who obstructs the sidewalk or street by playing
any game or engaging in any activity which obstructs the free travel thereon is
guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1980 Code § 11-370; amd. 2010 Code)
   F.   Congregating: It is an infraction and, upon conviction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to congregate about or upon any sidewalk,
stairway, doorway, window or in front of any business or dwelling house,
theater, lecture room, church or elsewhere and by so doing to obstruct or
interfere with the free passage of persons entering, leaving or occupying such
building or premises. (1980 Code § 11-371; amd. 2010 Code)
7-1-6: CLEARING SNOW FROM BUILDING EXITS:
Any person or persons building, occupying or allowing any structure to be
occupied in the town is required to keep all exits required by building codes
to remain permanently free and clear of any snow accumulation or buildup at all
times. Violation of this section shall be a class C misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2006-O-3, 5-18-2006; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required; Inspection
7-2-2: Conform To Established Specifications
7-2-3: Changing Existing Construction
7-2-4: Building Materials In Street; Permit
7-2-5: Mixing Concrete On Paved Streets Or Sidewalks; Permit
7-2-6: Overflowing Of Water
7-2-7: Irrigation Ditches
7-2-8: Removal Of Sod Or Earth
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; INSPECTION:
   A.   Required: No person, either as owner, agent, servant, contractor or
employee, shall construct any permanent sidewalk for public use without first
obtaining from the town a permit to do so. The permit shall specify that the
sidewalk be constructed of cement, the character and quality of the cement, the
consistent parts of the mixture, and the thickness of the sidewalk. (1980 Code
§ 11-352; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Unlawful Violation Of Specifications: It shall be unlawful to construct
a sidewalk in violation of the specifications given by a proper town official.
   C.   Inspection: All sidewalks shall be inspected by the superintendent of
streets or his duly authorized representative. (1980 Code § 11-352)
7-2-2: CONFORM TO ESTABLISHED SPECIFICATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, agent, servant, contractor
or employee to construct a street or sidewalk which does not conform to
specifications established by the town engineer or other authorized
representative of the town unless special permission to deviate from such
specification is first obtained from the town. (1980 Code § 11-351; amd. 2010
Code)
7-2-3: CHANGING EXISTING CONSTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a driveway across a sidewalk
or cut or change the construction of sidewalk, curb or gutter without first
making written application and obtaining from the town a permit to do so. The
acceptance of such permit shall be deemed an agreement on the part of such
person to construct said driveway in accordance with specifications furnished
by the town. (1980 Code § 11-353; amd. 2010 Code)
7-2-4: BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET; PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or use any portion of the public
streets when erecting or repairing any building upon land abutting thereon,
without first making application to and receiving from the town a permit for
the occupation or use of such portions of streets for such periods of time and
under such limitations and restrictions as may be required by the town council.
Any such permit may be revoked by the town council at any time when the holder
thereof fails to comply with any rule or regulation under which it is granted,
or when, in the opinion of the town council, the public interest requires such
revocation. (1980 Code § 11-354; amd. 2010 Code)
7-2-5: MIXING CONCRETE ON PAVED STREETS OR SIDEWALKS; PERMIT:
Unless a permit from the town has been obtained, it shall be unlawful to: (1980
Code § 11-355; amd. 2010 Code)
   A.   Place, Pile Or Permit: Place or pile or permit to be placed or piled,
any sand, gravel, lime, cement, mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance
or mixture, or allow the same to remain on any portion of any paved street or
sidewalk.
   B.   Make, Mix Or Permit: Make or mix or permit to be made or mixed any
mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance or mixture on any portion of
any paved street or sidewalk. (1980 Code § 11-355)
7-2-6: OVERFLOWING OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow water to overflow from any ditch,
canal, well or irrigation stream onto the streets, sidewalks or property of the
town. (1980 Code § 11-356)
7-2-7: IRRIGATION DITCHES:
All owners or occupants of lots in the town who require water from a ditch for
irrigation or other purposes shall dig ditches, erect flumes, lay pipes and
install culverts, as needed, and maintain the same to convey water under
sidewalks to or from their respective lots. All culverts, ditches, pipes and
flumes conveying water under sidewalks shall meet such reasonable standards and
specifications as may be established by the superintendent of streets. (1980
Code § 11-357)
7-2-8: REMOVAL OF SOD OR EARTH:
No person shall dig, cut or remove any sod or earth from any street or other
public place without a permit from the town. (1980 Code § 11-358; amd. 2010
Code)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS WITHIN PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Permit Required; Basis For Issuance
7-3-3: Permit Application Requirements
7-3-4: Emergency Work
7-3-5: Fees For Permit
7-3-6: Permit; Contents, Duration And Extensions
7-3-7: Transfer Or Assignment Of Permit
7-3-8: Compliance With Specifications, Standards, Traffic Control Regulations;
Site Permittee Identification
7-3-9: Other Highway Permits
7-3-10: Relocation Of Structures In Public Way
7-3-11: Impact Of Excavation On Existing Improvements
7-3-12: Restoration Of Public Property
7-3-13: Insurance Requirements
7-3-14: Bond; When Required, Conditions, Warranty
7-3-15: Hold Harmless Agreement; Limitations On Town Liability
7-3-16: Work Without Permit; Penalty
7-3-17: Failure To Comply; Default In Performance
7-3-18: Failure To Conform To Design Standards
7-3-19: Appeal Of Suspension, Revocation Or Stop Order
7-3-20: Tampering With Traffic Barricades
7-3-21: Conflict With Governing Provisions
7-3-22: Penalty
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
APPLICANT: Any person who makes application for a permit.
BUSINESS: Any place in the town in which there is conducted or carried on
principally or exclusively any pursuit or occupation for the purpose of gaining
a livelihood.
EMERGENCY: Any unforeseen circumstances or occurrence, the existence of which
constitutes an immediate danger to persons or property, or which causes
interruption of utility or public services.
ENGINEERING REGULATIONS, REGULATIONS, SPECIFICATIONS AND/OR DESIGN STANDARDS:
The latest version of the engineering regulations, specifications, design
standards or criteria published or adopted by the town engineer.
FAILURE: A work site restoration which fails to meet town engineer
specifications, or which results in a deteriorated or substandard condition
within the duration of the warranty period. Failure may be settlement of
surfaces, deterioration of materials, or other surface irregularities.
Measurement of failure shall be further defined in the engineering regulations.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the rights of way.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and
directly or through one or more affiliates owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
PERMITTEE: Any person which has been issued a permit and thereby has agreed to
fulfill the requirements of this chapter.
PERSON: Means and includes any natural person, partnership, firm, association,
provider, corporation, company, organization or entity of any kind.
PIPE DRIVEWAY: A driveway approach which uses a pipe or other means to bridge
the gutter.
PRIVATE DRAIN LINE: A pipe installed solely for the transmission of water
collected or generated on private property such as drainage, spring water or
stormwater, or condensate into the public drainage system.
PROPERTY OWNER: Person or persons who have legal title to property and/or
equitable interest in the property, or the ranking official or agent of a
company having legal title to property and/or equitable interest in the
property.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, system lessee or
public utility company.
PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY: Any company subject to the jurisdiction of the Utah
state public service commission, or any mutual corporation providing gas,
electricity, water, telephone, or other utility product or services for use by
the general public.
PUBLIC WAY: Includes all public rights of way and easements, public footpaths,
walkways and sidewalks, public streets, public roads, public highways, public
alleys, and public drainageways. It does not, however, include utility
easements not within public ways of the town.
RESELLER: Any person that provides service over a system for which a separate
charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the underlying system
used for the transmission and does not install any system in the rights of way.
RESIDENT: The person or persons currently making their home at a particular
dwelling.
STORM DRAIN: A dedicated pipe, conduit, waterway or ditch installed in a right
of way or easement for the transmission of stormwater and drainage water. This
term does not include private drain lines.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Any person that leases a system or a specific portion of a
system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased, or used by a provider located in the construction,
ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a telecommunications system.
TOWN: Town of Alta, a municipal corporation of the state of Utah.
TOWN ENGINEER: The town engineer or his/her authorized representative.
WORK SITE RESTORATION: Includes the restoring of the original ground or paved
hard surface area to comply with engineering regulations, and includes, but is
not limited to, repair, cleanup, backfilling, compaction and stabilization,
paving and other work necessary to place the site in acceptable condition
following the conclusion of the work, or the expiration or revocation of the
permit. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; BASIS FOR ISSUANCE:
Any person desiring to perform work of any kind in a public way within the
town, shall make application for a permit. The decision by the town to issue a
permit shall include, among other factors determined by the town, the
following:
   A.   The capacity of the public way to accommodate the facilities or
structures proposed to be installed in the public way;
   B.   The capacity of the public way to accommodate multiple wire in addition
to cables, conduits, pipes or other facilities or structures of other users of
the public way, such as electrical power, telephone, gas, sewer and water;
   C.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements or landscaping previously existing in the public way;
   D.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction from numerous excavations of the public way. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-
11-1997)
7-3-3: PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Filing: Application for a permit shall be filed with the town engineer
on a form or forms to be furnished by the town. Property owners and/or tenants
for whom work is being done shall be responsible for obtaining the permits,
provided, however, contractors may obtain the permit in the contractor's name.
   B.   Eligible Applicants: No person shall be eligible to apply for or
receive permits to do work within the public ways of the town, save and except
the following:
      1.   Contractors licensed by the state as general contractors;
      2.   Providers;
      3.   Property owners installing, replacing or maintaining less than five
hundred (500) square feet or one hundred (100) linear feet of sidewalk, curb
and gutter, or driveway approach, or other work approved by the town engineer,
upon a portion of the public way adjacent to their residence; or
      4.   Persons offering a service which requires occupation of the public
way, such as scaffold or staging, staging of a crane, installation or
maintenance of electric signs, glass, awnings, and painting or cleaning of
buildings or sign boards or other structures.
   C.   Denial: The town engineer may deny the issuance of permits to
contractors, utility companies or other permit applicants who have shown by
past performance that, in the opinion of the town engineer, they will not
consistently conform to the engineering regulations, specifications, design
standards or the requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Plans And Specifications: When necessary, in the judgment of the town
engineer, to fully determine the relationship of the work proposed to existing
or proposed facilities within the public ways, or to determine whether the work
proposed complies with the engineering regulations, construction specifications
and design standards, the town engineer may require the filing of engineering
plans, specifications and sketches showing the proposed work in sufficient
detail to permit determination of such relationship or compliance, or both, and
the application shall be deemed suspended until such plans and sketches are
filed and approved.
   E.   Approval Required Prior To Commencement: It shall be unlawful for any
person to commence work upon any public way until the town engineer has
approved the application and until a permit has been issued for such work,
except as specifically approved to the contrary in this chapter.
   F.   Appeal: The disapproval or denial of an application by the town
engineer may be appealed by the applicant to the town council by filing of a
written notice of appeal within ten (10) days of the action of the town
engineer. The town council shall hear such appeal, if written request therefor
be timely filed as soon as practicable, and render their decision within two
(2) weeks following notice of such appeal.
   G.   Limitation Of Town Engineer Authority: In approving or disapproving
work within any public way, or permits therefor, in the inspection of such
work; in reviewing plans, sketches or specifications; and generally in the
exercise of the authority conferred upon him/her by this chapter, the town
engineer shall act in such manner as to preserve and protect the public way and
the use thereof, but shall have no authority to govern the actions or inaction
of permittees and applicants or other persons which have no relationship to the
use, preservation or protection of the public way.
   H.   Exemption For Government Employee Work: It shall be lawful for a town,
county, state, federal or other government employee to perform routine
maintenance work, not involving excavations, without first having obtained a
permit therefor.
   I.   Hand Digging Excavations: A permit is not required from the town
engineer for hand digging excavations for installation or repair of sprinkler
systems and landscaping within the nonpaved areas of the public way; however,
conformance to all town specifications is required. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-4: EMERGENCY WORK:
   A.   Authorized: Any person maintaining pipes, lines or facilities in the
public way may proceed with work upon existing facilities without a permit when
emergency circumstances demand the work to be done immediately; provided a
permit could not reasonably and practicably have been obtained beforehand.
   B.   Notification To Town:
      1.   In the event that emergency work is commenced on or within any
public way of the town during regular business hours, the town engineer shall
be notified within one-half (1/2) hour from the time the work is commenced. The
person commencing and conducting such work shall take all necessary safety
precautions for the protection of the public and the direction and control of
traffic, and shall ensure that work is accomplished according to town
engineering regulations, the manual on uniform traffic control devices and
other applicable laws, regulations or generally recognized practices in the
industry.
      2.   Any person commencing emergency work in the public way during other
than business hours without a permit shall immediately thereafter apply for a
permit or give notice during the first hour of the first regular business day
on which town offices are open for business after such work is commenced. A
permit for such emergency work may be issued which shall be retroactive to the
date when the work was begun, at the discretion of the town engineer. (Ord.
1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-5: FEES FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Required: The town shall charge and the permittee shall pay upon
issuance of the permit, fees for costs associated with the work performed under
the permit as outlined in the consolidated fee schedule. Such costs could
include costs for reviewing the project and issuing the permit, inspections of
the project, deterioration of the public way or diminution of the useful life
of the public way, and other costs to the town associated with the work to be
done under the permit. All costs shall be assessed in a nondiscriminatory
manner.
   B.   Waiver: The town engineer may waive permit fees or penalties or portion
thereof provided for in this chapter, when he/she determines that such permit
fee or penalty:
      1.   Pertains to construction or rehabilitation of housing for persons
whose income is below the median income level for the town; or
      2.   Pertains to an encroachment on the public way involving a
beautification project which furthers specific goals and objectives set forth
in the town's strategic plan, master plans, or other official documents,
including decorative street lighting, building facade lighting, flower and
planter boxes, and landscaping.
   C.   Additional Charges: Additional charges to cover the reasonable costs
and expenses of any required engineering review, inspection and work site
restoration associated with each undertaking may be charged by the town to each
permittee, in addition to the permit fee. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-6: PERMIT; CONTENTS, DURATION AND EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Effective Dates: Each permit application shall state the starting date
and estimated completion date. Work shall be completed within five (5) days
from the starting date or as determined by the town engineer. Such
determination shall be based upon factors reasonable related to the work to be
performed under the permit. Such factors may include, in addition to other
factors related to the work to be performed, the following:
      1.   The scope of work to be performed under the permit;
      2.   Maintaining the safe and effective flow of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic on the public way affected by the work;
      3.   Protecting the existing improvements to the public way impacted by
the work;
      4.   The season of the year during which the work is to be performed, as
well as the current weather and its impact on public safety and the use of the
public way by the public;
      5.   Use of the public way for extraordinary events anticipated by the
town. The town engineer shall be notified by the permittee of commencement of
the work within twenty four (24) hours prior to commencing work. The permit
shall be valid for the time period specified in the permit.
   B.   Extension:
      1.   If the work is not completed during such period, prior to the
expiration of the permit, the permittee may apply to the town engineer for an
additional permit or an extension, which may be granted by the town engineer
for good cause shown.
      2.   The length of the extension requested by the permittee shall be
subject to the approval of the town engineer. No extension shall be made that
allows work to be completed in the winter period without payment of winter
fees. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-7: TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF PERMIT:
Permits shall not be transferable or assignable, and work shall not be
performed under a permit in any place other than that specified in the permit.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent a permittee from subcontracting the work
to be performed under a permit; provided, however, that the holder of the
permit shall be and remain responsible for the performance of the work under
the permit, and for all bonding, insurance and other requirements of this
chapter and under said permit. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-8: COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS, STANDARDS, TRAFFIC CONTROL REGULATIONS;
SITE PERMITTEE IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   Conformance Required: The work performed in the public way shall
conform to the requirements of the engineering regulations, design standards,
construction specifications and traffic control regulations of the town, copies
of which shall be available from the town engineer, kept on file in the office
of the town clerk and be open to public inspection during office hours.
   B.   Signage: Where a job site is left unattended before completion of the
work, signage with minimum two inch (2") high letters shall be attached to a
barricade or otherwise posted at the site indicating the permittee's name, or
company name, telephone number, and after hours telephone number.
   C.   Barricades: All excavations shall be conducted in a manner resulting in
a minimum amount of interference or interruption of street or pedestrian
traffic. Inconvenience to residents and businesses fronting on the public way
shall be minimized. Suitable, adequate and sufficient barricades and/or other
structures will be available and used where necessary to prevent accidents
involving property or persons. Barricades must be in place until all of the
permittee's equipment is removed from the site and the excavation has been
backfilled and proper temporary gravel surface are in place, except where
backfilling and resurfacing is to be done by the town; in which case the
barricades, together with any necessary lights, flares or torches, must remain
in place until the backfill work is actually commenced by the town. From sunset
to sunrise, all barricades and excavations must be clearly outlined by adequate
signal lights, torches, etc. The town marshal department and unified fire
authority shall be notified at least twenty four (24) hours in advance of any
planned excavation requiring street closure or traffic detour. (Ord. 1997-O-6,
12-11-1997)
7-3-9: OTHER HIGHWAY PERMITS:
   A.   Applicability: Holders of permits for work on highways owned or under
the jurisdiction of other government entities, but located within the town
limits, shall not be required to obtain permits from the town under the
provisions of this chapter, unless the work extends beyond the backside of the
curb, or beyond any other designated jurisdictional boundary. Any town permit
shall not be construed to permit or allow work on a county road or a state
highway within the town without an applicable county or state permit.
   B.   Authority Of Town: The town engineer, in his or her discretion, shall
have the right and authority to regulate work under permits issued by other
governmental entities with respect to hours and days of work, and measures
required to be taken by the permittee of said governmental entity for the
protection of traffic and safety of persons and property. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impose any duty,
implied or express, on the town or its employees, officers, agents or assigns,
relative to the protection of traffic and safety of persons or property,
arising out of the issuance of any permit issued by government entities other
than the town, or arising out of any work performed on any public way owned or
within the jurisdiction of the town. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-10: RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES IN PUBLIC WAY:
   A.   Directives: The town engineer may direct any person owning or
maintaining facilities or structures in the public way to alter, modify or
relocate such facilities or structures as the town engineer may require as set
forth herein. Sewers, pipes, drains, tunnels, conduits, pipe driveways, vaults,
trash receptacles and overhead and underground gas, electric, telephone,
telecommunication and communication facilities shall specifically be subject to
such directives. The person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures
shall, at their own cost and expense and upon reasonable written notice by the
town, promptly protect, or promptly alter or relocate such facilities or
structures, or part thereof, as directed by the town. In the event that such
person refuses or neglects to conform to the directive of the town, the town
shall have the right to break through, remove, alter or relocate such part of
the facilities or structures without liability to such person. Such person
shall pay to the town all costs incurred by the town in connection with such
work performed by the town, including also design, engineering, construction,
materials, insurance, court costs and attorney fees.
   B.   Considerations: Any directive by the town engineer shall be based upon
of the following:
      1.   The facility or structure was installed, erected or is being
maintained contrary to law, or determined by the town engineer to be
structurally unsound or defective;
      2.   The facility or structure constitutes a "nuisance", as defined under
state statute;
      3.   The permit under which the facility or structure was installed has
expired or has been revoked;
      4.   The public way is about to be repaired or improved and such
facilities or structures may pose a hindrance to construction; or
      5.   The grades or lines of the public way are to be altered or changed.
   C.   Police Power: Any directive of the town engineer under this section
shall be under and consistent with the town's police power. Unless an emergency
condition exists, the town engineer shall make a good faith effort to consult
with the person regarding any condition that may result in a removal or
relocation of facilities in the public way to consider possible avoidance or
minimization of removal or relocation requirements and provide the directive as
far enough in advance of the required removal or relocation to allow the person
a reasonable opportunity to plan and minimize cost associated with the required
removal or relocation.
   D.   Private Easements: This obligation does not apply to facilities or
structures originally located on private property pursuant to a private
easement, which property was later incorporated into the public way, if that
prior private easement grants a superior vested right. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-
1997)
   E.   Failure To Comply; Penalty: Any person owning or maintaining facilities
or structures in the public way who fails to alter, modify or relocate such
facilities or structures upon notice to do so by the town engineer shall be
guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. All costs of alteration, modification or relocation shall
be borne by the person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures
involved. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997; amd. 2010 Code)
   F.   Action By Town In Emergency: The town may, at any time, in case of
fire, disaster or other emergency, as determined by the town in its reasonable
discretion, cut or move any parts of the system and appurtenances on, over or
under the public way, in which event the town shall not be liable therefor to a
person. The town shall notify a person in writing prior to, if practicable, but
in any event as soon as possible and in no case later than the next business
day following any action taken under this subsection. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-
1997)
7-3-11: IMPACT OF EXCAVATION ON EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Temporary Improvements: If any sidewalk or curb ramp is blocked by
excavation work, a temporary sidewalk or curb ramp shall be constructed or
provided. Said temporary improvement shall be safe for travel and convenient
for users, and consistent with town standards for such.
   B.   Surface: Where excavations are made in paved areas, the surface shall
be replaced with a temporary gravel surface until such time as the permanent
repairs are completed.
   C.   Restoration Of Property: At any time a permittee disturbs the yard,
residence or the real or personal property of a private property owner or the
town, such permittee shall ensure that such property is returned, replaced and/
or restored to a condition that is comparable to the condition that existed
prior to the commencement of the work.
   D.   Costs Borne By Permittee: The costs associated with the disturbance and
the return, replacement and/or restoration shall be borne by the permittee.
Further, a permittee shall reimburse a property owner or the town for any
actual damage caused by the permittee, its subcontractor, or its independent
contractor, in connection with the disturbance of such property. However,
nothing in this subsection shall require the permittee to pay a subscriber or
private property owner when that subscriber or private property owner requests
that the permittee remove, replace or relocate improvements associated with the
service provided by the permittee to the property owner and when the permittee
exercises due care in the performance of that service, or when the subscriber
or private property owner provided false information to the permittee on which
the permittee relied to its detriment.
   E.   Acts Included: Examples of types of acts specifically included in this
section are the following:
      1.   Removal of sod, lawn, shrubbery, flowers, trees, driveways, or
fence, to install, trench, repair, replace, remove or locate equipment, cable
or other appurtenances of the permittee;
      2.   Installation or removal of equipment or other appurtenances of the
permittee's system within a private property owner's property or residence
which requires drilling, excavating, plastering, or the like on the part of the
permittee;
      3.   Temporarily relocating or moving a piece of personal property or a
fixture of a private property owner (such as a motor vehicle, fence, air
conditioning, heating unit, or the like) in order to perform some sort of
construction, maintenance or repair by the permittee; or
      4.   Permanently removing a permittee's equipment or other appurtenances
due to the revocation, termination or nonrenewal of the franchise (if
applicable).
   F.   Blocking Drainage Channels: Existing drainage channels, such as gutters
or ditches, shall be kept free of dirt or other debris so that natural flow
will not be interrupted. When it is necessary to block or otherwise interrupt
flow of the drainage channel, a method of rerouting the flow must be submitted
for approval by the town engineer prior to the blockage of the channel.
   G.   Subcontractors Applicable: The requirements imposed upon the permittee
extend to any subcontractor or independent contractor that the permittee might
employee to perform the tasks pursuant to the permit.
   H.   Exception: The requirements of this section shall not apply to the
removal by a permittee of a permanent structure placed by a property owner in a
public way, unless such property owner has received prior written permission
from the town granting the property owner the right to install a permanent
structure on a public way, and such written permission has been recorded in the
office of the county recorder. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-12: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Required: The permittee shall, at its own expense, restore the surface
of any public way to its original condition and replace any removed or damaged
pavement with the same type and depth of pavement as that which is adjoining,
including the gravel base material. All restoration shall conform to the
engineering regulations, design standards and specifications promulgated by the
town and shall be accomplished within the time limits set forth in the permit,
unless additional time is granted in writing by the department.
   B.   Request For Town To Restore: At its option, the permittee doing the
actual excavation work may request that the town restore the surface to its
original condition. The fee for such resurfacing shall be determined by the
town engineer in accordance with its reasonable costs for such work and shall
be charged to the person, firm, or corporation making the excavation. Payment
for said work shall be received by the town prior to the release of the bond.
(Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-13: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall furnish to the town
evidence that such applicant has a comprehensive general liability and property
damage policy that includes contractual liability coverage endorsed with the
following limits and provisions or with such alternative limits and provisions
as may be approved by the town:
      1.   A minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined single
limit per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury, and property damage
and not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) in the aggregate. The
general aggregate limit shall apply separately to the permit, or the general
aggregate limit shall be two (2) times the required occurrence limit. The
coverage shall be in the nature of broad form commercial general liability
coverage. The town attorney may increase or decrease minimum insurance limits,
depending on the potential liability of any project.
      2.   All policies shall include the town, its employees, officers,
officials, agents, volunteers and assigns, as insureds. Any reference to the
"town" shall include the town, its employees, officers, officials, agents,
volunteers and assigns.
      3.   The coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the town, its
employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers, and assigns. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the town, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns shall be in excess of the permittee's insurance
and shall not contribute to or with it.
      4.   Any failure to comply with reporting provisions of the policy shall
not affect coverage provided to the town, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns.
      5.   Coverage shall state that the permittee's insurance shall apply
separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought,
except with respect to the limits of the insurer's liability.
      6.   Underwriters shall have no right of recovery or subrogation against
the town, it being the intent of the parties that the insurance policy so
affected shall protect both parties and be primary coverage for any and all
losses covered by the described insurance.
      7.   The insurance companies issuing the policy or policies shall have no
recourse against the town for payment of any premiums due or for any
assessments under any form of any policy.
      8.   Each insurance policy shall be endorsed to state that the coverage
shall not be suspended, voided, canceled or reduced in coverage or in limits,
except after thirty (30) days' prior written notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested sent to the town.
      9.   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, save harmless and defend
the town and its officers and employees against any claim or loss, damage or
expense sustained on account of damages to persons or property occurring by
reason of permit work done by the permittee, his/her subcontractor or agent,
whether or not the work has been completed and whether or not the right of way
has been opened to public travel.
      10.   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, hold harmless and
defend the town, and its officers and employees against any claim or loss,
damage or expense sustained by any person occurring by reason of doing any work
pursuant to the permit including, but not limited to, falling objects or
failure to maintain proper barricades and/or lights as required from the time
work begins until the work is completed and right of way is opened for public
use.
   B.   Insurance is to be placed with insurers with an AM Best rating of no
less than an A carrier, with a rating of "7" or higher.
   C.   The permittee shall furnish the town with certificates of insurance and
original endorsements affecting coverage required by the permit. The
certificates and endorsements for each insurance policy are to be signed by a
person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its behalf. The town
expressly reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all
required insurance policies at any time. Consequently, the permittee shall be
prepared to provide such copies prior to the issuance of the permit.
   D.   If any of the required policies are, or at any time become,
unsatisfactory to the town as to form or substance, or if a company issuing any
such policy is, or at any time becomes, unsatisfactory to the town, the
permittee shall promptly obtain a new policy, submit the same to the town for
approval, and thereafter submit verification of coverage as required by the
town. Upon failure to furnish, deliver and maintain such insurance as provided
herein, the town may declare the permit to be in default and pursue any and all
remedies the town may have at law or in equity, including those actions
outlined in this chapter.
   E.   The permittee shall include all subcontractors as insured under its
policies or shall furnish separate certificates and endorsements for each
subcontractor. All coverages for subcontractors shall be subject to all of the
requirements stated herein.
   F.   Any deductibles or self-insured retentions shall be declared to and
approved by the town. At the option of the town, either the insurer shall
reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retentions as respects the
town, its employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers or assigns, or the
permittee shall procure a bond, in a form acceptable to the town, guaranteeing
payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense
expenses.
   G.   A property owner performing work adjacent to his/her residence may
submit proof of a homeowner's insurance policy in lieu of the insurance
requirements of this section.
   H.   A provider may be relieved of the obligation of submitting certificates
of insurance under the following circumstances:
      1.   If such company shall submit satisfactory evidence in advance that:
         a.   It is insured in the amounts set forth in this chapter, or has
complied with state requirements to become self-insured. Public utilities may
submit annually evidence of insurance coverage in lieu of individual
submissions for each permit; and
         b.   Said coverage provides to the town the same scope of coverage
that would otherwise be provided by a separate policy as required by this
chapter; or
      2.   The work to be performed under the permit issued to the applicant is
to be performed by the town, in which case insurance or other risk transfer
issues shall be negotiated between the town and the applicant by separate
agreement. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-14: BOND; WHEN REQUIRED, CONDITIONS, WARRANTY:
   A.   Bond Required: Except as noted in this chapter, each applicant, before
being issued a permit, shall provide the town with an acceptable security (this
may include a corporate surety bond, cash bond or letter of credit, as
determined by the town) in the amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) to
guarantee faithful performance of the work authorized by a permit granted
pursuant to this chapter. The amount of the security required may be increased
or decreased at the discretion of the town engineer whenever it appears that
the amount and cost of the work to be performed, and not satisfactorily
completed, may vary from the amount of security otherwise required under this
chapter. The form of the security and the entity issuing the security shall be
subject to the approval of the town attorney.
   B.   Public Utilities Holding Franchise: Public utilities franchised by the
town shall not be required to file any security if such requirement is
expressly waived in the franchise documents.
   C.   Conditions: The security required by this section shall be conditioned
as follows:
      1.   The permittee shall fully comply with the requirements of the town
ordinances and regulations, specifications and standards promulgated by the
town relative to work in the public way, and respond to the town in damages for
failure to conform therewith;
      2.   After work is commenced, the permittee shall proceed with diligence
and expedition and shall promptly complete such work and restore the public way
to construction specifications, so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary;
      3.   The permittee shall guarantee the materials and workmanship for a
period of two (2) years from completion of such work, with reasonable wear and
tear excepted; and
      4.   Unless authorized by the town engineer on the permit, all paving,
resurfacing or replacement of street facilities on major or collector streets
shall be done in conformance with the regulations contained herein within three
(3) calendar days, and within seven (7) calendar days from the time the
excavation commences on all other streets, except as provided for during
excavation in winter or during weather conditions which do not allow paving
according to engineering regulations. In winter, a temporary patch must be
provided. In all excavations, restoration of pavement surfaces shall be made
immediately after backfilling is completed or concrete is cured. If work is
expected to exceed the above duration, the permittee shall submit a detailed
construction schedule for approval. The schedule will address means and methods
to minimize traffic disruption and complete the construction as soon as
reasonably possible. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-15: HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT; LIMITATIONS ON TOWN LIABILITY:
   A.   The permittee agrees to save the town, its officers, employees and
agents harmless from any and all costs, damages and liabilities which may
accrue or be claimed to accrue by reason of any work performed under the
permit. The issuance and acceptance of any permit under this chapter shall
constitute such an agreement by the permittee to this section.
   B.   This chapter shall neither be construed as imposing upon the town, its
officers, employees and agents, any liability or responsibility for damages to
any person injured by or by reason of the performance of any work within the
public way, or under a permit issued pursuant to this chapter; nor shall the
town, its officers, officials, employees, agents, volunteers or assigns thereof
be deemed to have assumed any such liability or responsibility by reason of
inspection authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit, or the approval of
any work. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-16: WORK WITHOUT PERMIT; PENALTY:
   A.   Stop Order: A stop order may be issued by the town engineer directed to
any person or persons doing or causing any work to be done in the public way
without a permit. The abutting property owner shall be responsible for causing
work to be done.
   B.   Fee: Any person found to be doing work in the public way without having
obtained a permit, as provided in this chapter, shall be required to pay a
permit fee equal to two (2) times the normal permit fee. For replacement work,
where a fee is not normally charged, the normal permit fee for new construction
shall apply. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-17: FAILURE TO COMPLY; DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE:
   A.   Violations; Notice: Any permit may be revoked or suspended and a stop
order issued by the town engineer, after notice to the permittee for:
      1.   Violation of any condition of the permit, the security, or of any
provision of this chapter;
      2.   Violation of any provision of any other ordinance of the town or law
relating to the work; or
      3.   Existence of any condition or the doing of any act which does
constitute, may constitute, or cause a condition endangering life or property.
   B.   Immediate Effect: A suspension or revocation by the town engineer, and
a stop order, shall take effect immediately upon entry thereof by the town
engineer and notice to the person performing the work in the public way. Notice
to the person performing the work shall be accomplished when the town engineer
has posted a stop work order at the location of the work and written notice has
been mailed, return receipt requested, to the address indicated by the
permittee on the permit.
   C.   Default: Whenever the town engineer finds that a default has occurred
in the performance of any term or condition of the permit, written notice
thereof may be given to the principal and to the surety on the bond, if there
is a surety bond. Such notice shall state the work to be done, the estimated
cost thereof, and the period of time deemed by the town engineer to be
reasonably necessary for the completion of the work.
   D.   Work Performed By Town: In the event that the surety (or principal),
within a reasonable time following the giving of such notice (taking into
consideration the exigencies of the situation, the nature of the work, the
requirements of public safety and for the protection of persons and property),
fails either to commence and cause the required work to be performed with due
diligence, or to indemnify the town for the cost of doing the work, as set
forth in the notice, the town may perform the work, at the discretion of the
town engineer, with town forces or contract forces, or both, and suit may be
commenced by the town attorney against the contractor and bonding company and
such other persons as may be liable, to recover the entire amount due to the
town, including attorney fees, on account thereof, In the event that cash has
been deposited, the cost of performing the work may be charged against the
amount deposited, and suit brought for the balance due, if any. (Ord. 1997-O-6,
12-11-1997)
7-3-18: FAILURE TO CONFORM TO DESIGN STANDARDS:
For failure to conform to the design standards and regulations, the town
engineer may:
   A.   Suspend or revoke the permit;
   B.   Issue a stop order;
   C.   Order removal and replacement of faulty work;
   D.   Require an extended warranty period; and/or
   E.   Negotiate a cash settlement to be applied toward future maintenance
costs. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-19: APPEAL OF SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR STOP ORDER:
Any suspension, revocation or stop order by the town engineer may be appealed
by the permittee to town council by filing a written notice of appeal within
ten (10) days of the action of the town engineer. The town council shall hear
such appeal, if written request therefor be timely filed, as soon as
practicable, and render his/her decision within a reasonable time following
filing of notice of appeal. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-20: TAMPERING WITH TRAFFIC BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or wantonly or without
authorization and legal cause, extinguish, remove or diminish any light
illuminating any barricade or excavation, or to tear down, remove or in any
manner alter any rail, fence or barricade protecting any excavation or other
construction site. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-21: CONFLICT WITH GOVERNING PROVISIONS:
Should there be a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any other ordinance, agreement, franchise or other document
governing the excavation of a public way, the more restrictive provisions of
the aforesaid documents shall apply. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997)
7-3-22: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a violation of any provision of
this chapter, or failure to comply with an order of suspension, revocation or
stop work, shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day the violation exists shall be a separate offense.
No criminal conviction shall excuse the person from otherwise complying with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1997-O-6, 12-11-1997; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE A.  DAMAGE TO UNDERGROUND UTILITY FACILITIES
SECTION:
7-3A-1: Definitions
7-3A-2: Prohibited Activity; Penalty
7-3A-3: Additional Penalties
7-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this article shall have the following
meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
EXCAVATE OR EXCAVATION: An operation in which earth, rock or other material on
or below the ground is moved or displaced by tools, equipment or explosives.
PERSON: Includes individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations and
companies and their agents.
UNDERGROUND UTILITY FACILITY: Personal property that is buried or placed below
ground level for use in the storage or conveyance of any of the following:
water; sewage; communications, including electronic, photonic, telephonic or
telegraphic communications; television, cable television or other
telecommunications signals, including transmission to subscribers of video or
other programming; electric power; oil, gas, or other fluid and gaseous
substances; or steam. (Ord. 1996-O-6, 12-12-1996)
7-3A-2: PROHIBITED ACTIVITY; PENALTY:
Any person who elects to excavate between the months of October and April, or
when the town has received over two feet (2') of accumulated snow, regardless
of the month, and who makes contact with or damages any underground utility
facility, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1996-O-6, 12-12-1996; amd. 2010 Code)
7-3A-3: ADDITIONAL PENALTIES:
It is the express intent of the town council that the sanctions contained in
this article shall be in addition to the civil penalties set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 54-8a-2 et seq. (Ord. 1996-O-6, 12-12-1996)
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; USE AND CONTROL
SECTION:
7-4-1: Use And Control
7-4-1: USE AND CONTROL:
   A.   Unlawful Use: Unless authorized by permit or other written
authorization issued by the town, or unless authority is granted by provisions
of this code or other ordinance of the town, now or hereafter enacted, it shall
be a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to: (1980 Code § 8-111; amd. 2010 Code)
      1.   Property Controlled By Town: Construct, lay, excavate, erect,
operate or maintain over, under, across, in or through any property owned or
controlled by the town, any utility, canal, ditch, construction or building.
      2.   Restricted Areas: Enter upon any property of the town contrary to
any posting or marking restricting or prohibiting use of the area.
      3.   Damage To Property: Intentionally use or perform acts upon property
of the town which materially impair, alter or damage the property. (1980 Code
§ 8-111)
   B.   Repair After Unlawful Use: The town council, in addition to any other
penalty which may be imposed, may order any person who has damaged, altered or
changed any property of the town to repair or restore the property to its
original condition prior to the damage, alteration or change. (1980 Code § 8-
112)
   C.   Franchise; Easement:
      1.   Provisions: The town council may grant to any person a franchise or
easement on such terms and conditions as it deems reasonable, for the purpose
of entering upon, constructing, building, operating and maintaining any
business or for other use of the property of the town, and the provisions of
subsections A and B of this section shall not apply to the extent such
provisions are waived, qualified or made inapplicable to the rights or
privileges granted in the franchise ordinance or easement.
      2.   In Writing: Any franchise or easement granted by the town shall be
in writing and any franchise or easement not in writing shall be void. (1980
Code § 8-113)
   D.   Acts Exempted: It shall not be a violation of this section where any
person uses the public property of the town in the manner or for the purpose
for which such property has been made available for public use. (1980 Code § 8-
114)
CHAPTER 5
TELECOMMUNICATIONS USE OF RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
7-5-1: Findings And Intent; Scope
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Franchise Required
7-5-4: Compensation And Other Payments
7-5-5: Franchise Applications
7-5-6: Construction And Technical Requirements
7-5-7: Franchise And License; Procedure For Transfer
7-5-8: Oversight And Regulation
7-5-9: Rights Of Town
7-5-10: Obligation To Notify
7-5-11: General Provisions
7-5-12: Federal, State And Town Jurisdiction
7-5-1: FINDINGS AND INTENT; SCOPE:
   A.   Declaration Of Findings And Intent:
      1.   Rights Of Way: The town finds that the rights of way within the
town:
         a.   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property
in the business and social life of the town;
         b.   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
         c.   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and
other public service entities delivering utility and public services rendered
for profit, to the enhancement of the health, welfare and general economic well
being of the town and its citizens; and
         d.   Are a unique and physically limited resource requiring proper
management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
taxpayers of the foregoing uses and to minimize the inconvenience to and
negative effects upon the public from such facilities' construction, placement,
relocation and maintenance in the rights of way.
      2.   Compensation: The town finds that the town should receive fair and
reasonable compensation for use of the rights of way.
      3.   Local Concern: The town finds that while telecommunications systems
are in part an extension of interstate commerce, their operations also involve
rights of way, municipal franchising and vital business and community service,
which are of local concern.
      4.   Promotion Of Telecommunications Services: The town finds that it is
in the best interests of its taxpayers and citizens to promote the rapid
development of telecommunications services, on a nondiscriminatory basis,
responsive to community and public interest, and to assure availability for
municipal, educational and community services.
      5.   Franchise Standards: The town finds that it is in the interests of
the public to franchise and to establish standards for franchising providers in
a manner that:
         a.   Fairly and reasonably compensates the town on a competitively
neutral and nondiscriminatory basis as provided herein;
         b.   Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under
which providers may use the rights of way to serve the public;
         c.   Fully protects the public interests and the town from any harm
that may flow from such commercial use of rights of way;
         d.   Protects the police powers and rights of way management authority
of the town, in a manner consistent with federal and state law;
         e.   Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and
use of the town infrastructure;
         f.   Protects the public's investment in improvements in the rights of
way; and
         g.   Ensures that no barriers to entry of telecommunications providers
are created and that such franchising is accomplished in a manner that does not
prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting telecommunication services, within
the meaning of the telecommunications act of 1996 ("act") [Pub.L. 104-104].
      6.   Power To Manage Rights Of Way: The town adopts this
telecommunications chapter pursuant to its power to manage the rights of way,
pursuant to common law, the Utah constitution and statutory authority, and
receive fair and reasonable, compensation for the use of rights of way by
providers as expressly set forth by section 253 of the act.
   B.   Scope: This chapter shall provide the basic local scheme for providers
of telecommunications services and systems that require the use of the rights
of way, including providers of both the system and service, those providers of
the system only, and those providers who do not build the system but who only
provide services. This chapter shall apply to all future providers and to all
providers in the town prior to the effective date hereof, whether operating
with or without a franchise as set forth in section
7-5-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Excluded Activities:
      1.   Cable TV: This chapter shall not apply to cable television operators
otherwise regulated by a cable television ordinance.
      2.   Wireless Services: This chapter shall not apply to personal wireless
service facilities.
      3.   Provisions Applicable To Excluded Providers: Providers excused by
other law that prohibits the town from requiring a franchise shall not be
required to obtain a franchise, but all of the requirements imposed by this
chapter through the exercise of the town's police power and not preempted by
other law shall be applicable. (Ord. 1997-O-5, 12-11-1997)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The words
"shall" and "will" are mandatory, and "may" is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
APPLICATION: The process by which a provider submits a request and indicates a
desire to be granted a franchise to utilize the rights of way of all, or a
part, of the town. An "application" includes all written documentation, verbal
statements and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by a provider
to the town concerning: the construction of a telecommunications system over,
under, on or through the rights of way; the telecommunications services
proposed to be provided in the town by a provider; and any other matter
pertaining to a proposed system or service.
COMPLETION DATE: The date that a provider begins providing services to
customers in the town.
CONSTRUCTION COSTS: All costs of constructing a system, including make ready
costs, other than engineering fees, attorney or accountant fees, or other
consulting fees.
CONTROL OR CONTROLLING INTEREST: Actual working control in whatever manner
exercised, including, without limitation, working control through ownership,
management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may be, of the
system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of control
or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership, directly
or indirectly, by any person or group of persons acting in concert of more than
twenty five percent (25%) of any provider (which person or group of persons is
hereinafter referred to as "controlling person"). "Control" or "controlling
interest", as used herein, may be held simultaneously by more than one person
or group of persons.
FCC: The federal communications commission, or any successor thereto.
FRANCHISE: The rights and obligation extended by the town to a provider to own,
lease, construct, maintain, use or operate a system in the rights of way within
the boundaries of the town. Any such authorization, in whatever form granted,
shall not mean or include: a) any other permit or authorization required for
the privilege of transacting and carrying on a business within the town
required by the ordinances and laws of the town; b) any other permit, agreement
or authorization required in connection with operations on rights of way or
public property, including, without limitation, permits and agreements for
placing devices on or in poles, conduits or other structures, whether owned by
the town or a private entity, or for excavating or performing other work in or
along the rights of way.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A contract entered into in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter between the town and a franchisee that sets forth, subject to
this chapter, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will be
exercised.
GROSS REVENUE: Includes all revenues of a provider that may be included as
gross revenue within the meaning of Utah Code Annotated title 11, chapter 26,
as amended.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the rights of way.
OPEN VIDEO SERVICE: Any video programming services provided to any person
through the use of rights of way, by a provider that is certified by the FCC to
operate an open video system pursuant to section 651 et seq., of the
telecommunications act (to be codified at 47 USC title VI, part V), regardless
of the system used.
OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM: The system of cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides,
optic fiber, microwave, laser beams, and any associated converters, equipment
or facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
amplifying or distributing open video services to or from subscribers or
locations within the town.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and
directly or through one or more persons owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
ORDINANCE OR TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORDINANCE: This telecommunications ordinance
concerning the granting of franchises in and by the town for the construction,
ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a telecommunications system.
PSC: The public service commission, or any successor thereto.
PERSON: Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint
stock company, trust, or any other legal entity, but not the town.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES: Has the same meaning as provided in
section 704 of the act (47 USC 332(c)(7)(c)), which includes what is commonly
known as cellular and PSC services that do not install any system or portion of
a system in the rights of way.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller or system lessee.
RESELLER: Refers to any person that provides local exchange service over a
system for which a separate charge is made, where that person does not own or
lease the underlying system used for the transmission.
RIGHTS OF WAY: The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way of any type whatsoever, now or hereafter
existing as such within the town.
SIGNAL: Any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light or
laser, or radio frequency energy or optical information, in either analog or
digital format.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a system or a specific portion
of a system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: The transmission, between or among points specified by the
user, of information of the user's choosing (e.g., data, video and voice),
without change in the form or content of the information sent and received.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE OR SERVICES: Any telecommunications services
provided by a provider within the town that the provider is authorized to
provide under federal, state and local law, and any equipment and/or facilities
required for and integrated with the services provided within the town, except
that these terms do not include "cable service" as defined in the cable
communications policy act of 1984, as amended by the cable television consumer
protection and competition act of 1992 (47 USC section 521 et seq.), and the
telecommunications act of 1996.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased or used by a provider, located in the rights of way
and utilized in the provision of services, including fully digital or analog,
voice, data and video imaging and other enhanced telecommunications services.
Telecommunications system or systems also includes an open video system.
TOWN: The town of Alta, Utah.
WIRE: Fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable, or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
(Ord. 1997-O-5, 12-11-1997)
7-5-3: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
   A.   Nonexclusive Franchise: The town is empowered and authorized to issue
nonexclusive franchises governing the installation, construction and
maintenance of systems in the town rights of way, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The franchise is granted through a franchise
agreement entered into between the town and provider.
   B.   Every Provider Must Obtain: Except to the extent preempted by federal
or state law, as ultimately interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction,
including any appeals, every provider must obtain a franchise prior to
constructing a telecommunications system or providing telecommunications
services using the rights of way, and every provider must obtain a franchise
before constructing an open video system or providing open video services via
an open video system. Any open video system or service shall be subject to the
customer service and consumer protection provisions applicable to the cable TV
companies to the extent the town is not preempted or permitted as ultimately
interpreted by a court of competent jurisdiction, including any appeals. The
fact that particular telecommunications systems may be used for multiple
purposes does not obviate the need to obtain a franchise for other purposes. By
way of illustration and not limitation, a cable operator of a cable system must
obtain a cable franchise, and, should it intend to provide telecommunications
services over the same system, must also obtain a telecommunications franchise.
   C.   Nature Of Grant: A franchise shall not convey title, equitable or
legal, in the rights of way. A franchise is only the right to occupy rights of
way on a nonexclusive basis for the limited purposes and for the limited period
stated in the franchise; the right may not be subdivided, assigned or
subleased. A franchise does not excuse a provider from obtaining appropriate
access or pole attachment agreements before collocating its system on the
property of others, including the town's property. This section shall not be
construed to prohibit a provider from leasing conduit to another provider, so
long as the lessee has obtained a franchise.
   D.   Current Providers: Except to the extent exempted by federal or state
law, any provider acting without a franchise on the effective date hereof shall
request issuance of a franchise from the town within ninety (90) days of the
effective date hereof. If such request is made, the provider may continue
providing service during the course of negotiations. If a timely request is not
made, or if negotiations cease and a franchise is not granted, the provider
shall comply with the provisions of subsection 7-5-9D of this chapter.
   E.   Nature Of Franchise: The franchise granted by the town under the
provisions of this chapter shall be a nonexclusive franchise providing the
right and consent to install, repair, maintain, remove and replace its system
on, over and under the rights of way in order to provide services.
   F.   Regulatory Approval Needed: Before offering or providing any services
pursuant to the franchise, a provider shall obtain any and all regulatory
approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses for the offering or provision of
such services from the appropriate federal, state and local authorities, if
required, and shall submit to the town, upon the written request of the town,
evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses.
   G.   Term: No franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall have a term of
less than five (5) years or greater than fifteen (15) years. Each franchise
shall be granted in a nondiscriminatory manner. (Ord. 1997-O-5, 12-11-1997)
7-5-4: COMPENSATION AND OTHER PAYMENTS:
   A.   Compensation: As fair and reasonable compensation for any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter, a provider shall have the following
obligations: (Ord. 1997-O-5, 12-11-1997)
      1.   Application Fee: In order to offset the cost to the town to review
an application for a franchise and in addition to all other fees, permits or
charges, a provider shall pay to the town, at the time of application, a
nonrefundable application fee in such amount as established by resolution of
the town council. (Ord. 1997-O-5, 12-11-1997; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Franchise Fee: The franchise fee, if any, shall be set forth in the
franchise agreement. The obligation to pay a franchise fee shall commence on
the completion date. The franchise fee is offset by any business license fee or
business license tax enacted by the town.
      3.   Excavation Permits: The provider shall also pay fees required for an
excavation permit as provided in chapter 3 of this title.
   B.   Payment: Unless otherwise agreed to in the franchise agreement, all
franchise fees shall be paid on a monthly basis within forty five (45) days of
the close of each calendar month.
   C.   Fee Statement And Certification: Unless a franchise agreement provides
otherwise, each fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement showing the
manner in which the fee was calculated and shall be certified as to its
accuracy. (Ord. 1997-O-5, 12-11-1997)
   D.   Future Costs: Any costs associated with any work to be done by the town
to provide space on town owned poles shall be borne by the provider.
   E.   Taxes And Assessments: To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities, other than the town on the use of the town
property as a result of a provider's use or occupation of the rights of way,
the provider shall be responsible for payment of its pro rata share of such
taxes, payable annually unless otherwise required by the taxing authority. Such
payments shall be in addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this
chapter.
   F.   Interest On Late Payments: In the event that any payment is not
actually received by the town on or before the applicable date fixed in the
franchise, interest thereon shall accrue from such date until received at the
rate charged for delinquent state taxes.
   G.   No Accord And Satisfaction: No acceptance by the town of any fee shall
be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount,
nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed as a release of any
claim the town may have for additional sums payable.
   H.   Not In Lieu Of Other Taxes Or Fees: The fee payment is not a payment in
lieu of any tax, fee or other assessment except as specifically provided in
this chapter, or as required by applicable law. By way of example, and not
limitation, excavation permit fees and fees to obtain space on the town owned
poles are not waived and remain applicable.
   I.   Continuing Obligation And Holdover: In the event a provider continues
to operate all or any part of the system after the term of the franchise, such
operator shall continue to comply with all applicable provisions of this
chapter and the franchise, including, without limitation, all compensation and
other payment provisions throughout the period of such continued operation;
provided, that any such continued operation shall in no way be construed as a
renewal or other extension of the franchise, nor as a limitation on the
remedies, if any, available to the town as a result of such continued operation
after the term, including, but not limited to, damages and restitution.
   J.   Costs Of Publication: A provider shall assume any publication costs
associated with its franchise that may be required by law. (Ord. 1997-O-5, 12-
11-1997)
7-5-5: FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Required: To obtain a franchise to construct, own, maintain or provide
services through any system within the town, to obtain a renewal of a franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter, or to obtain the town approval of a transfer
of a franchise, as provided in subsection 7-5-7A2 of this chapter, granted
pursuant to this chapter, an application must be filed with town on the form
attached to ordinance 1997-O-5 as exhibit A, on file in the town office. The
application form may be changed by the mayor so long as such changes request
information that is consistent with this chapter. Such application form, as
amended, is incorporated by reference.
   B.   Criteria: In making a determination as to an application filed pursuant
to this chapter, the town may, but shall not be limited to, request the
following from the provider:
      1.   A copy of the order from the PSC granting a certificate of
convenience and necessity.
      2.   Certification of the provider's financial ability to compensate the
town for provider's intrusion, maintenance and use of the rights of way during
the franchise term proposed by the provider;
      3.   Provider's agreement to comply with the requirements of section
7-5-6 of this chapter.
   C.   Franchise Determination: The town, in its discretion, shall determine
the award of any franchise on the basis of these and other considerations
relevant to the use of the rights of way, without competitive bidding. (Ord.
1997-O-5, 12-11-1997; amd. 2010 Code)
7-5-6: CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Requirement: No provider shall receive a franchise unless it
agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this section governing
construction and technical requirements for its system, in addition to any
other reasonable requirements or procedures specified by the town or the
franchise, including requirements regarding locating and sharing in the cost of
locating portions of the system with other systems or with town utilities. A
provider shall obtain an excavation permit, pursuant to chapter 3 of this
title, before commencing any work in the rights of way.
   B.   Quality: All work involved in the construction, maintenance, repair,
upgrade and removal of the system shall be performed in a safe, thorough and
reliable manner using materials of good and durable quality. If, at any time,
it is determined by the FCC or any other agency granted authority by federal
law or the FCC to make such determination, that any part of the system,
including, without limitation, any means used to distribute signals over or
within the system, is harmful to the public health, safety or welfare, or
quality of service or reliability, then a provider shall, at its own cost and
expense, promptly correct all such conditions.
   C.   Licenses And Permit: A provider shall have the sole responsibility for
diligently obtaining, at its own cost and expense, all permits, licenses or
other forms of approval or authorization necessary to construct, maintain,
upgrade or repair the system, including, but not limited to, any necessary
approvals from persons and/or the town to use private property, easements,
poles and conduits. A provider shall obtain any required permit, license,
approval or authorization, including, but not limited to, excavation permits,
pole attachment agreements, etc., prior to the commencement of the activity for
which the permit, license, approval or authorization is required.
   D.   Relocation Of System:
      1.   New Grades Or Lines: If the grades or lines of any rights of way are
changed at any time in a manner affecting the system, then a provider shall
comply with the requirements of the excavation provisions in chapter 3 of this
title.
      2.   Town Authority To Move System In Emergency: The town may, at any
time, in case of fire, disaster or other emergency, as determined by the town
in its reasonable discretion, cut or move any parts of the system and
appurtenances on, over or under the rights of way of the town, in which event
the town shall not be liable therefor to a provider. The town shall notify a
provider in writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon as
possible and in no case later than the next business day following any action
taken under this section. Notice shall be given as provided in subsection 7-5-
11D of this chapter.
      3.   Provider Required To Temporarily Move System For Third Party: A
provider shall, upon prior reasonable written notice by the town or any person
holding a permit to move any structure, and within the time that is reasonable
under the circumstances, temporarily move any part of its system to permit the
moving of said structure. A provider may impose a reasonable charge on any
person other than the town for any such movement of its systems.
      4.   Rights Of Way Change; Obligation To Move System: When the town is
changing a right of way and makes a written request, a provider is required to
move or remove its system from the right of way, without cost to the town, to
the extent provided in chapter 3 of this title (excavations). This obligation
does not apply to systems originally located on private property pursuant to a
private easement, which property was later incorporated into the rights of way,
if that private easement grants a superior vested right. This obligation exists
whether or not the provider has obtained an excavation permit. (Ord. 1997-O-5,
12-11-1997)
   E.   Protect Structures: In connection with the construction, maintenance,
repair, upgrade or removal of the system, a provider shall, at its own cost and
expense, protect any and all existing structures belonging to the town. A
provider shall obtain the prior written consent of the town to alter any water
main, power facility, sewerage or drainage system, or any other municipal
structure on, over or under the rights of way of the town required because of
the presence of the system. Any such alteration shall be made by the town or
its designee on a reimbursable basis. A provider agrees that it shall be liable
for the costs incurred by the town to replace or repair and restore to its
prior condition in a manner as may be reasonably specified by the town, any
municipal structure or any other rights of way of the town involved in the
construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the system that may
become disturbed or damaged as a result of any work thereon by or on behalf of
a provider pursuant to the franchise. (Ord. 1997-O-5, 12-11-1997; amd. 2010
Code)
   F.   No Obstruction: In connection with the construction, maintenance,
upgrade, repair or removal of the system, a provider shall not unreasonably
obstruct the rights of way of fixed guideway systems, railways, passenger
travel, or other traffic to, from or within the town without the prior consent
of the appropriate authorities.
   G.   Safety Precautions: A provider shall, at its own cost and expense,
undertake all necessary and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its
work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences,
barricades, security personnel and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such
other requirements prescribed by OSHA and Utah OSHA. A provider shall comply
with all applicable federal, state and local requirements, including, but not
limited to, the national electrical safety code.
   H.   Repair: After written reasonable notice to the provider, unless, in the
sole determination of the town, an eminent danger exists, any rights of way
within the town which are disturbed or damaged during the construction,
maintenance or reconstruction by a provider of its system may be repaired by
the town at the provider's expense, to a condition as good as that prevailing
before such work was commenced. Upon doing so, the town shall submit to such a
provider an itemized statement of the cost for repairing and restoring the
rights of ways intruded upon. The provider shall, within thirty (30) days after
receipt of the statement, pay to the town the entire amount thereof.
   I.   System Maintenance: A provider shall:
      1.   Install and maintain all parts of its system in a nondangerous
condition throughout the entire period of its franchise.
      2.   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and shall conform, when applicable, with the national
electrical safety code, and all applicable other federal, state and local laws
or regulations.
      3.   At all reasonable times, permit examination by any duly authorized
representative of the town of the system and its effect on the rights of way.
   J.   Trimming Of Trees: A provider shall have the authority to trim trees,
in accordance with all applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and easement
restrictions, upon and hanging over rights of way so as to prevent the branches
of such trees from coming in contact with its system. Such trimming to be done
by a qualified arborist to ensure damage to trees is kept to a minimum. (Ord.
1997-O-5, 12-11-1997)
7-5-7: FRANCHISE AND LICENSE; PROCEDURE FOR TRANSFER:
   A.   Notification Of Sale:
      1.   Notification And Election: When a provider is the subject of a sale,
transfer, lease, assignment, sublease or disposal of, in whole or in part,
either by forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale, consolidation or
otherwise, such that it or its successor entity is obligated to inform or seek
the approval of the PSC, the provider or its successor entity shall promptly
notify the town of the nature of the transaction. The notification shall
include either:
         a.   The successor entity's certification that the successor entity
unequivocally agrees to all of the terms of the original provider's franchise
agreement; or
         b.   The successor entity's application in compliance with section
7-5-5 of this chapter.
      2.   Transfer Of Franchise: Upon receipt of a notification and
certification in accordance with subsection A1a of this section, the town
designee, as provided in subsection 7-5-9A of this chapter, shall send notice
affirming the transfer of the franchise to the successor entity. If the town
has good cause to believe that the successor entity may not comply with this
chapter or the franchise agreement, it may require an application for the
transfer. The application shall comply with section
7-5-5 of this chapter.
      3.   If PSC Approval No Longer Required: If the PSC no longer exists, or
if its regulations or state law no longer require approval of transactions
described in this section, and the town has good cause to believe that the
successor entity may not comply with this chapter or the franchise agreement,
it may require an application. The application shall comply with section
7-5-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Events Of Sale: The following events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment or other transfer of the franchise requiring compliance with this
section:
      1.   The sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of a
provider's assets to another person;
      2.   The sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership or other equity interests in a provider by one or more
of its existing shareholders, partners, members or other equity owners so as to
create a new controlling interest in a provider;
      3.   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership, membership
or other equity interest by a provider so as to create a new controlling
interest in such a provider; or
      4.   The entry by a provider into an agreement with respect to the
management or operation of such provider or its system. (Ord. 1997-O-5, 12-11-
1997)
7-5-8: OVERSIGHT AND REGULATION:
   A.   Insurance, Indemnity And Security: Prior to the execution of a
franchise, a provider will deposit with the town an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit or surety bond as required by the terms of the franchise, and
shall obtain and provide proof of the insurance coverage required by the
franchise. A provider shall also indemnify the town as set forth in the
franchise.
   B.   Oversight: The town shall have the right to oversee, regulate and
inspect periodically the construction, maintenance and upgrade of the system,
and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of the franchise and
applicable law. A provider shall establish and maintain managerial and
operational records, standards, procedures and controls to enable a provider to
prove, in reasonable detail, to the satisfaction of the town at all times
throughout the term, that a provider is in compliance with the franchise. A
provider shall retain such records for not less than the applicable statute of
limitations.
   C.   Maintain Records: A provider shall at all times maintain:
      1.   On file with the town, a full and complete set of plans, records and
as built hard copy maps and, to the extent the maps are placed in an electronic
format, they shall be made in electronic format compatible with the town's
existing GIS system, of all existing and proposed installations and the types
of equipment and systems installed or constructed in the rights of way,
properly identified and described as to the types of equipment and facility by
appropriate symbols and marks which shall include annotations of all rights of
ways where work will be undertaken. As used herein, "as built" maps include
"file construction prints". Maps shall be drawn to scale. As built maps,
including the compatible electronic format, as provided above, shall be
submitted within thirty (30) days of completion of work or within thirty (30)
days after completion of modification and repairs. As built maps are not
required of the provider who is the incumbent local exchange carrier for the
existing system to the extent they do not exist.
      2.   Throughout the term of the franchise, a provider shall maintain
complete and accurate books of account and records of the business, ownership
and operations of a provider with respect to the system in a manner that allows
the town at all times to determine whether a provider is in compliance with the
franchise. Should the town reasonably determine that the records are not being
maintained in such a manner, a provider shall alter the manner in which the
books and/or records are maintained so that a provider comes into compliance
with this section. All financial books and records which are maintained in
accordance with the regulations of the FCC and any governmental entity that
regulates utilities in the state, and generally accepted accounting principles
shall be deemed to be acceptable under this section.
   D.   Confidentiality: If the information required to be submitted is
proprietary in nature or must be kept confidential by federal, state or local
law, upon proper request by a provider, such information shall be classified as
a protected record within the meaning of the Utah government records access and
management act (GRAMA), making it available only to those who must have access
to perform their duties on behalf of the town; provided, that a provider
notifies the town of, and clearly labels the information which a provider deems
to be confidential, proprietary information. Such notification and labeling
shall be the sole responsibility of the provider.
   E.   Provider's Expense: All reports and records required under this chapter
shall be furnished at the sole expense of a provider, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter or a franchise.
   F.   Right Of Inspection: For the purpose of verifying the correct amount of
the franchise fee, the books and records of the provider pertaining thereto
shall be open to inspection or audit by duly authorized representatives of the
town at all reasonable times, upon giving reasonable notice of the intention to
inspect or audit the books and records; provided, that the town shall not audit
the books and records of the provider more often than annually. The provider
agrees to reimburse the town the reasonable costs of an audit if the audit
discloses that the provider has paid ninety five percent (95%) or less of the
compensation due the town for the period of such audit. In the event the
accounting rendered to the town by the provider herein is found to be
incorrect, then payment shall be made on the corrected amount within thirty
(30) calendar days of written notice, it being agreed that the town may accept
any amount offered by the provider, but the acceptance thereof by the town
shall not be deemed a settlement of such item if the amount is in dispute or is
later found to be incorrect. (Ord. 1997-O-5, 12-11-1997)
7-5-9: RIGHTS OF TOWN:
   A.   Enforcement And Remedies:
      1.   Enforcement; Town Designee: The town is responsible for enforcing
and administering this chapter, and the town or its designee, as appointed by
the mayor, is authorized to give any notice required by law or under any
franchise agreement.
      2.   Enforcement Provision: Any franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter shall contain appropriate provisions for enforcement, compensation and
protection of the public, consistent with the other provisions of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, defining events of default, procedures for
accessing the bond/security fund, and rights of termination or revocation.
   B.   Force Majeure: In the event a provider's performance of any of the
terms, conditions or obligations required by this chapter, or a franchise, is
prevented by a cause or event not within a provider's control, such inability
to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be
imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this section, causes or events
not within the control of a provider shall include, without limitation, acts of
God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, failure or loss of
utilities, explosions, acts of public enemies, and natural disasters such as
floods, earthquakes, landslides and fires.
   C.   Extended Operation And Continuity Of Services:
      1.   Continuation After Expiration: Upon either expiration or revocation
of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the town shall have discretion
to permit a provider to continue to operate its system or provide services for
an extended period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of such
expiration or revocation. A provider shall continue to operate its system under
the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise granted pursuant to
this chapter.
      2.   Continuation By Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier: If the provider is
the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall be permitted to continue to
operate its system and provide services without regard to revocation or
expiration, but shall be obligated to negotiate a renewal in good faith.
   D.   Removal Or Abandonment Of Franchise Property:
      1.   Abandoned System: In the event that:
         a.   The use of any portion of the system is discontinued for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months, and thirty (30) days after no response
to written notice from the town to the last known address of provider;
         b.   Any system has been installed in the rights of way without
complying with the requirements of this chapter or franchise; or
         c.   The provisions of section
7-5-3 of this chapter are applicable and no franchise is granted, a provider,
except the provider who is an incumbent local exchange carrier, shall be deemed
to have abandoned such system.
      2.   Removal Of Abandoned System: The town, upon such terms as it may
impose, may give a provider written permission to abandon, without removing,
any system, or portion thereof, directly constructed, operated or maintained
under a franchise. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, a provider shall remove within a reasonable time the
abandoned system and shall restore, using prudent construction standards, any
affected rights of way to their former state at the time such system was
installed, so as not to impair their usefulness. In removing its plant,
structures and equipment, a provider shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation necessarily made by it and shall leave all rights of way in as good
condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without materially
interfering with any electrical or telephone cable or other utility wires,
poles or attachments. The town shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of the rights of way cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to
and after removal. The liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this
chapter and any security fund provided in a franchise shall continue in full
force and effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by a
provider with the terms and conditions of this section.
      3.   Transfer Of Abandoned System To Town: Upon abandonment of any system
in place, a provider, if required by the town, shall submit to the town a
written instrument, satisfactory in form to the town, transferring to the town
the ownership of the abandoned system.
      4.   Removal Of Aboveground System: At the expiration of the term for
which a franchise is granted, or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as
provided for by this chapter, in any such case without renewal, extension or
transfer, the town shall have the right to require a provider to remove, at its
expense, all aboveground portions of a system from the rights of way within a
reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than one hundred eighty
(180) days. If the provider is the incumbent local exchange carrier, it shall
not be required to remove its system, but shall negotiate a renewal in good
faith.
      5.   Leaving Underground System: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
set forth in this chapter, a provider may abandon any underground system in
place so long as it does not materially interfere with the use of the rights of
way or with the use thereof by any public utility, cable operator or other
person. (Ord. 1997-O-5, 12-11-1997)
7-5-10: OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY:
Before entering onto any private property, a provider shall make a good faith
attempt to contact the property owners in advance, and describe the work to be
performed. (Ord. 1997-O-5, 12-11-1997)
7-5-11: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Conflicts: In the event of a conflict between any provision of this
chapter and a franchise entered pursuant to it, the provisions of this chapter
in effect at the time the franchise is entered into shall control.
   B.   Severability: If any provision of this chapter is held by any federal,
state or local court of competent jurisdiction, to be invalid as conflicting
with any federal or state statute, or is ordered by a court to be modified in
any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such law and all
appellate remedies with regard to the validity of the ordinance provisions in
question are exhausted, such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct
and independent part of this chapter, and such holding shall not affect the
validity and enforceability of all other provisions hereof. In the event that
such law is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed, so
that the provision which had been held invalid or modified is no longer in
conflict with such law, the provision in question shall return to full force
and effect and shall again be binding on the town and the provider; provided,
that the town shall give the provider thirty (30) days, or a longer period of
time as may be reasonably required for a provider to comply with such a
rejuvenated provision, written notice of the change before requiring compliance
with such provision.
   C.   New Developments: It shall be the policy of the town to liberally amend
this chapter, upon application of a provider, when necessary to enable the
provider to take advantage of any developments in the field of
telecommunications which will afford the provider an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently or economically serve itself or the public.
   D.   Notices: All notices from a provider to the town required under this
chapter or pursuant to a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be
directed to the officer as designated by the mayor. A provider shall provide in
any application for a franchise the identity, address and phone number of the
person to receive notices from the town. A provider shall immediately notify
the town of any change in its name, address or telephone number.
   E.   Exercise Of Police Power: To the full extent permitted by applicable
law either now or in the future, the town reserves the right to adopt or issue
such rules, regulations, orders or other directives that it finds necessary or
appropriate in the lawful exercise of its police powers. (Ord. 1997-O-5, 12-11-
1997)
7-5-12: FEDERAL, STATE AND TOWN JURISDICTION:
   A.   Construction: This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent
with all applicable federal and state statutes.
   B.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all franchises granted or
renewed after the effective date hereof. This chapter shall further apply, to
the extent permitted by applicable federal or state law, to all existing
franchises granted prior to the effective date hereof, and to a provider
providing services, without a franchise, prior to the effective date hereof.
   C.   Other Applicable Ordinances: A provider's rights are subject to the
police powers of the town to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the
health, safety and welfare of the public. A provider shall comply with all
applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the town pursuant to its
police powers. In particular, all providers shall comply with the town zoning
and other land use requirements.
   D.   Town Failure To Enforce: A provider shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or any
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter by reason of any failure of the town
to enforce prompt compliance.
   E.   Construed According To State Law: This chapter and any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter shall be construed and enforced in accordance
with the substantive laws of the state. (Ord. 1997-O-5, 12-11-1997)
CHAPTER 6
PARK USAGE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Notification And Permit Required For Large Groups
7-6-2: Hours Of Usage
7-6-3: Removal Of Garbage
7-6-1: NOTIFICATION AND PERMIT REQUIRED FOR LARGE GROUPS:
In general, the town park shall be open to the public, without reservations
being required. However, for groups of seventy five (75) persons or more, said
group shall be required to notify staff of the town at least seven (7) days
prior to the intended usage and receive permission to use the park. A letter
from the town shall constitute a permit for usage. The permit shall not grant
the group exclusive use of the park, which shall remain open to the public.
Groups may be required to pay for additional public safety and health costs as
determined by the town staff. (Ord. 2000-O-4, 7-13-2000)
7-6-2: HOURS OF USAGE:
The town park shall be opened, under normal conditions, from six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. until ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.; however, individuals or groups may receive
permission to use the park earlier or later providing the conditions set forth
in section
7-6-1 of this chapter are met. (Ord. 2000-O-4, 7-13-2000)
7-6-3: REMOVAL OF GARBAGE:
Any group of eight (8) or more shall be required to remove all of the garbage
it generates from the park. (Ord. 2000-O-4, 7-13-2000)
CHAPTER 7
CAMPING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
7-7-1: Camping Restrictions
7-7-2: Penalty
7-7-1: CAMPING RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to camp, lodge, cook, make a fire or pitch a
tent, lean-to, tarpaulin, umbrella, yurt, or any other type of ground cover or
shelter, or temporary structure of any kind, for the purpose of camping, or
place sleeping bags, bedding or any other type of camping or sleeping
equipment, except in areas authorized, designated and posted as campgrounds for
overnight camping during the camping season as designated by official
representatives of the United States forest service. Special event camping
permits may be authorized by the town. (Ord. 2002-O-2, 3-15-2002)
7-7-2: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2002-O-2, 3-15-2002; amd. 2010 Code)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Water Department And Administration
8-1-2: Access Authorized To Town Officers
8-1-3: Analysis Of Town Water Required
8-1-4: Application For Service
8-1-5: Fees, Rates And Charges; Billings; Delinquency
8-1-6: Equipment Furnished By Town
8-1-7: Meters
8-1-8: Fire Protection Pipes
8-1-9: Service Pipes
8-1-10: Building Construction To Be Metered
8-1-11: Plumbers And Plumbing Work
8-1-12: Water Main Extensions
8-1-13: Private Water Services
8-1-14: Developments
8-1-15: Nonpermanent, Seasonal Connections
8-1-16: Fire Hydrants
8-1-17: Water Shut Off Allowed Without Liability To Town
8-1-18: Good Repair Of Private Service Required
8-1-19: Prohibited Acts And Activities
8-1-20: Use Limited By Proclamation During Scarcity
8-1-21: Shut Off For Failure To Comply
8-1-1: WATER DEPARTMENT AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Water Department Created: The water department is hereby created. It
shall comprise all of the property and equipment and personnel necessary to the
maintenance and operation of the town water supply and distribution. (1980 Code
§ 14-101)
   B.   Employment Of Superintendent: The mayor may appoint, by and with the
approval of the town council, a competent person to the position of
superintendent of the water department, who shall hold office during the
pleasure of the mayor and town council. (1980 Code § 14-102)
   C.   Duties Of Superintendent: The superintendent of the waterworks system
shall under the direction of the mayor and council member in charge of water,
have charge of all waters and water sources, water tanks, water mains, fire
hydrants, and all the equipment and appurtenances pertaining to the waterworks
system. He shall have the direction of the laying of the water mains, and
putting in of all service pipes, and the regulation of the supply of water, and
shall perform such duties as may be required of him by law or ordinance, or by
his contract of employment. He shall report to the mayor and town council
monthly, or more often if required, his doings as superintendent, the condition
of the waterworks system, and make suggestions as the nature of the service
that may be required. The superintendent shall also have the power to issue
citations and bring all penalties for any violation of this chapter. (1980 Code
§ 14-103; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Intergovernmental Agreement: The water supply agreement from Salt Lake
City to the town will be adhered to strictly. It shall be the responsibility of
the superintendent of waterworks, under the direction of the mayor and town
council, to uphold the standards and specifications of the intergovernmental
agreement. Breaches of this section shall result in a one hundred dollar
($100.00) fine. (1980 Code § 14-104)
8-1-2: ACCESS AUTHORIZED TO TOWN OFFICERS:
Free access shall at all ordinary hours be allowed to the superintendent of
waterworks, or other authorized person, to all places supplied with water from
the waterworks system, to examine the apparatus, the amount of water used, the
manner of its use, and to make all necessary shutoffs for vacancy, delinquency
and violations of this chapter. (1980 Code § 14-141)
8-1-3: ANALYSIS OF TOWN WATER REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of the superintendent of the waterworks to make or cause
to be made at least once every week a bacteriological analysis, according to
the standard methods of the U.S. public health service, of the water furnished
by the town through its water system, and report the same to the town council
once a month. (1980 Code § 14-156)
8-1-4: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Application Required: No culinary water shall be furnished to any user
from the town without an application filed by the applicant on a printed form
to be furnished by the department of public works office. (1980 Code § 14-105)
   B.   Contents Of Application: All applicants shall state fully and truly the
purpose for which water is required and shall agree to conform to and be
governed by the rules and regulations that may be prescribed by the town
council, for the control of the water supply. The applicant shall also, in his
application, agree to be responsible for and pay all bills due the town for all
materials and/or labor furnished, as well as for all water supplied to the
premises. (1980 Code § 14-106)
8-1-5: FEES, RATES AND CHARGES; BILLINGS; DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Connection, User Fees: Water system connection fees and water user fees
shall be established by resolution. (Ord. 1996-O-04, 9-12-1996)
   B.   Previous Charges Paid Prior To Service: Before water will be turned on
to any premises, all charges against the premises that are due and payable to
the town for water, or any service, material or supplies pertaining thereto
furnished thereon, must have been paid. (1980 Code § 14-107)
   C.   Billing Period: Bills for water used through meters shall be rendered
monthly or quarterly. The superintendent of waterworks shall determine from
time to time when monthly or quarterly meter readings shall be made and bills
rendered. (1980 Code § 14-144)
   D.   Required Turn Off For Nonpayment: If the bills rendered are not paid
within thirty (30) days after their rendition, the superintendent of waterworks
shall cause the water to be turned off. (1980 Code § 14-145; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Payments Required Before Turn On: Before the water is turned on, all
unpaid rates must be paid in full, together with a turn on fee as established
by resolution of the town council. (1980 Code § 14-146; amd. 2010 Code)
   F.   Average Rate Charged Upon Failure Of Meters: When for any reason the
water meter shall fail to register, or the meter cannot be read, a bill shall
be rendered at the average rate of consumption for like periods of time. (1980
Code § 14-147)
   G.   Meter Deposits Required From Nonowners: Water takers who are not the
owners of the premises on which water service is being supplied, shall pay to
the water department for deposit with the town treasurer, an amount sufficient
to cover the cost of water rates which may accumulate. The amount deposited
shall be not less than twice any monthly or quarterly bill for water consumed
over the preceding year on such premises, but in no case shall it be less than
ten dollars ($10.00). Water users who are buying under contract or bond for
deed premises to which water service is being or is to be supplied shall be
deemed owners under this section and need not furnish the deposit herein
required. Contractors applying for new water service, claiming to be owners of
the property involved, shall be required to make deposits as hereinabove
specified. The provisions of this subsection shall apply alike to all water
consumers receiving water service, whether within or without the corporate
limits of the town. (1980 Code § 14-152)
   H.   Power Of Town Council To Change Rates: Nothing herein contained shall
prohibit the town council from amending, altering or adding to the provisions
of this chapter in relation to the water supply or the rules or regulations
which may be adopted in conformity therewith; provided, that no alteration in
water rates shall apply to any permission given or contact made for the use of
water, until after the expiration of such permission or contact. (1980 Code
§ 14-155)
8-1-6: EQUIPMENT FURNISHED BY TOWN:
The service pipes and connections from the main, including the box and meter,
to be placed in a designated position, will be furnished and maintained by the
town, upon payment of installation and connection charges by the applicant.
(1980 Code § 14-108)
8-1-7: METERS:
   A.   Information; Connection Charges:
      1.   Within Town Limits: The installation and connection of a service
line and meter shall be under the water department's jurisdiction. The cost
will include the engineer's cost, plus line installation, including the meter
from the main to the meter which, where possible, will be located inside the
building. All charges shall be payable in advance.
      2.   Outside Town Limits: The installation and connection of a service
line and meter shall be under the town council's jurisdiction. The cost will
include the engineer's cost, plus line installation, including meter. An
additional charge as established by resolution of the town council will also be
included per unit connected to the main. The meter will also be located inside
the building where at all possible. All charges shall be payable in advance. In
the case of a large corporation coming in, the cost of a connection shall be
negotiable by the mayor and town council. In all cases, the pipe and type of
meter shall be specified by the superintendent of the public works office and
shall be under his exclusive control. (1980 Code § 14-109; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   Connections Requiring Annexation: It shall be solely up to the
discretion of the town council to allow connections which require annexation.
(1980 Code § 14-109)
   B.   Meter Maintenance Charges:
      1.   The town is to maintain all water connections of three- fourths inch
(3/4") to four inch (4") sizes from the point of connection with the water main
up to and including the meter.
      2.   All maintenance and replacement, where necessary, on all service
lines above four inches (4") in size, are to be kept at the entire expense of
the consumer. (1980 Code § 14-110)
   C.   Meter Box Cover Required Under Traffic Stress:
      1.   Wherever water services have been installed or are to be installed
on any premises in such a location that the meter box is or may be subject to
vehicular traffic, then, in that case, it shall be the responsibility of the
owner or occupant of the premises to install or have installed entirely at his
expense a standard heavy concrete meter box with standard cast iron ring and
cover of sufficient strength to withstand the load of said vehicular traffic
without breaking.
      2.   If the owner or occupant of any such premises shall fail to make
such installation as provided in subsection C1 of this section, the town public
works office may, in addition to any and all other remedies afforded it by law,
remove the meter if one is already installed and terminate all water services
to such premises until proper installation is made or provided, or the
department may make such installation and bill the owner or occupant for the
cost to it for making such installation. (1980 Code § 14-111)
   D.   Meter Testing Upon Request; Payment: Should any water taker using a
water meter desire to have the meter on his premises tested, the charge shall
be as established by resolution of the town council, where the meter is found
to be correct, or to register in favor of the consumer, but where found to be
over registering, the cost of such test shall be borne by the town. (1980 Code
§ 14-148; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Interference With Meter Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
by himself, family, servants or agents to open, interfere with, injure, deface
or in any way impair the workings of any water meter. (1980 Code § 14-153)
   F.   Removal Of Meter Prohibited; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any
person, other than a duly authorized employee of the department of public
works, to remove any water meter from any premises. (1980 Code § 14-154)
8-1-8: FIRE PROTECTION PIPES:
   A.   Without Meter: Pipes to be used only in case of fire will be allowed
within buildings on the following conditions:
      1.   The fire pipes must be entirely disconnected from those used for
other purposes.
      2.   Hose pipes or branches must be arranged by means of seals, or
otherwise, so that they can be used only in case of fire. (1980 Code § 14-133)
   B.   With Meter: Should water be used through such fire pipe for other than
fire purposes, the superintendent of the public works department shall require
that a meter be installed upon the fire pipes, and no water shall be delivered
to said fire pipes until such meter is installed. (1980 Code § 14-134)
8-1-9: SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Requirements For Service Pipes: All service and other pipes used
underground shall be of ductile iron, cast iron or PVC pipe, laid not less than
five feet (5') below the surface of the ground and of sufficient strength to
stand the water pressure. All work upon the alterations or extensions of water
pipes shall be approved by the superintendent. (1980 Code § 14-112)
   B.   Permit Required For Service Pipes: No connection of service pipes shall
be made without first obtaining a permit therefor from the department of public
works, and no other extensions shall be made to another water taker from such
pipe, either within the town limits or where water service is extended by
agreement. (1980 Code § 14-113)
   C.   Right Angle Direct Connection Required: No consumer shall be permitted
to conduct water pipes across lots or buildings to adjoining premises, and each
structure abutting on a town main must be supplied through its own separate
pipe running at right angles to the main. (1980 Code § 14-114)
   D.   Expense Of Extending Service Pipe Responsibility Of Applicant: Where
the town mains do not extend to the premises to be served, a permit may be
issued by the superintendent of the public works department when, in his
opinion, it is impractical to extend a standard water main, provided the
applicant at his own expense extends a service pipe to the point where the town
main is to be tapped. (1980 Code § 14-115)
8-1-10: BUILDING CONSTRUCTION TO BE METERED:
   A.   Requirement: Where a building is to be erected, application shall be
made for service pipe in the regular manner, and all water consumed in the
construction of such building shall be paid for at regular rates. (1980 Code
§ 14-149)
   B.   Unlawful To Use Water Except Through Meter: It shall be unlawful for
any contractor or other person engaged in construction work to use water from
the town mains, except through a meter, as provided in subsection A of this
section. Abuse of this section shall result in a one hundred dollar ($100.00)
fine. (1980 Code § 14-150)
8-1-11: PLUMBERS AND PLUMBING WORK:
   A.   Compliance Required Of Plumbers: The requirements set forth in this
section shall apply to all persons performing any plumbing work in or upon any
of the mains and connections to appliances appertaining to the town public
works, and any violation of such sections or failure to comply therewith shall
be deemed a violation of this section. (1980 Code § 14-126)
   B.   License, Registration And Bond Required: No person shall make any
connections to, or in any manner perform any work upon, any of the mains,
connections or appliances pertaining to the town public works until he shall
have secured a license, been registered and filed a bond in an amount adequate
to cover the cost of work being performed for said public works department.
(1980 Code § 14-127)
   C.   Work On Water Pipes Without Permit Prohibited: No alteration, addition
or disconnection in or about any water pipes to apparatus connected with the
public works shall be made by any plumber or any consumer of water without a
written permit to do such work granted by the superintendent of the public
works department. A penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) will be levied on
any person abusing this subsection. (1980 Code § 14-128)
   D.   Turn Off Allowed Upon Discovery Of Leak: In case of leaks or other
accidents to service pipes, or other apparatus connected with the public works,
plumbers may shut off the water at the connection box to make necessary
repairs. (1980 Code § 14-129)
   E.   Water Valve Replaced In Original Position: In all cases when plumbers
shall make repairs to pipes or fixtures on any premises, they shall leave the
water turned on or turned off as they found it when they entered the premises
to make such repairs. (1980 Code § 14-130)
   F.   Stop And Waste Cock In Accessible Position: When a water pipe enters a
building, plumbers must supply such pipe with a stop and waste cock with a
handle or wrench fixed thereto for the purpose of turning the same. Such stop
and waste cock shall be placed on the pipe in an accessible position within
nine inches (9") of the wall where such pipe enters the building. All such
pipes shall enter buildings at the excavated portions thereof. Stop boxes,
cutoff and connections for meters and all meters installed shall be located in
accessible places, placed inside the building where at all possible. (1980 Code
§ 14-131)
   G.   Key Required To Open Stop Boxes: The opening of stop boxes by plumbers
by any means other than a proper wrench is unlawful. All plumbers must have a
stop box wrench attached to their keys for opening and closing stops. Any
plumber breaking a stop box cover or bolt will be required to pay for same in
addition to the penalty prescribed by the public works office. (1980 Code § 14-
132)
8-1-12: WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Expense Of Petitioner: All water main extensions shall be made at the
expense of the person, persons or corporation petitioning for that extension
and shall be made without special taxes being levied to pay for the same. (1980
Code § 14-157)
   B.   Advance Expense Authorized: Any person desiring to have the water mains
within the town extended, and being willing to advance the whole expense of
such extension, and receive the return thereof, as hereinafter provided, may
take application to the mayor or town council by petition containing a
description of such proposed extension, accompanied by map showing the location
thereof, which petition shall also contain an offer to advance the whole
expense of making the same as said expense shall be certified by the
superintendent of public works. (1980 Code § 14-158)
   C.   Statement Of Costs For Extension: Upon the receipt of such petition and
map, and before the petition is granted, the mayor and town council shall
obtain from the superintendent of public works a certified statement showing
the whole cost and expense of making such extension. (1980 Code § 14-159)
   D.   Deposit Of Expense With Town: If the town council shall grant said
petition, before any work shall be done on such extension, and within thirty
(30) days or such other time as the cost and expense of making such extension,
as certified by the superintendent of public works, shall be deposited with the
town treasurer. (1980 Code § 14-160)
   E.   Refund Of Expenses: Money deposits pursuant to subsection D of this
section shall be partially or completely refunded, without interest thereon,
only under the following conditions:
      1.   The amount to be refunded shall be fifty five percent (55%) of the
gross amount received by the town each year from water delivered through
service connections made to each such extension after the date on which each
said extension is completed and accepted in writing by the general
superintendent of the town waterworks.
      2.   Said amount shall be calculated upon water served during the
calendar year and paid by the town treasurer on or before July 1 of each year.
      3.   In no event shall the total amount refunded exceed the amount
deposited, nor shall such refund payments be made for water served through such
extensions after ten (10) years have passed from the above defined completion
date.
      4.   Upon approval of said extension, in writing, by the general
superintendent of town waterworks, title to all facilities installed in
connection with the said extension, except service lines, shall vest in the
town and any easements and rights of way necessary for the continued existence
of said extension shall be conveyed to the town. (1980 Code § 14-161)
   F.   Request For Extension Without Advancing Expenses: Any person desiring
to have the water mains of this town extended without advancing the cost and
expense thereof, as hereinbefore provided, may make application therefor by
petition to the mayor and town council, showing the location and extent of such
proposed extension. (1980 Code § 14-162)
   G.   Subdivision Approval Required Prior To Extension: No water mains or
pipes shall be laid, nor shall permission be given to lay water mains or pipes
to supply water from the waterworks system of the town to the occupants of any
plat, unless the addition or the subdivision shall have been approved by the
mayor and the town council. (1980 Code § 14-163)
8-1-13: PRIVATE WATER SERVICES:
   A.   Permit Required: When permission is granted by the mayor and town
council to any person to put in a private water service, the whole cost of
installing the same shall be paid by the persons obtaining such permission. All
such water services shall be maintained and kept in good repair by the owners
and users thereof, at their own cost and expense. In all cases, a standard
valve and other facilities and control equipment, approved by the
superintendent of the public works office, shall be required. (1980 Code § 14-
164)
   B.   Failure To Obtain Permit: Should anyone connect to a private pipe
without a permit from the public works department, water may be shut off at the
main until a permit is taken out and all expense of shutting off and turning on
is paid. (1980 Code § 14-165)
   C.   Private Lines May Be Master Metered: When a private water main
supplying more than one house is connected to the town water main, the director
of the public works office may require a master meter to be installed near the
point where the connection is to be made to the town main. This installation
will be at the expense of the owners of the private line according to the
regular rates for meter installation. Responsible parties must agree to pay all
bills for water service through said meter at regular meter rates. (1980 Code
§ 14-166)
   D.   Minimum Charge For Service Connections: The standard minimum charge for
each service connection taking off from said private line will be made. (1980
Code § 14-167)
8-1-14: DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Defined: "Development" shall mean a group or planned group or planned
development, including apartment and/or group dwellings, or any other private
housing development where streets within such development are not dedicated to
the town. (1980 Code § 14-170)
   B.   Fire Hydrants Located In Any Development: The owner, builder and/or
developer of any development located within the limits of the town shall
install within said development, at their sole expense, all fire hydrants
required and at those locations designated by the fire marshal. Additionally,
where the development is located on private property and the street containing
water mains and said hydrants are not conveyed or otherwise dedicated to the
town, said owner, builder and/or developer shall be and remain solely liable
for all claims arising therefrom and responsible for the complete maintenance
and operations of all mains and fire hydrants within said development. Where
said street containing water mains and hydrants are later conveyed or otherwise
dedicated the town, said owner, builder and/or developer shall, at their
expense, maintain said mains and fire hydrants for a period of one year from
the date of written acceptance thereof by the town. No dwelling unit in any
such development shall be located more than three hundred feet (300') from a
fire hydrant. (1980 Code § 14-171)
   C.   Compliance With Specifications: All hydrants installed in any such
subdivision must comply with then current specifications for fire hydrants of
the public works office. (1980 Code § 14-172)
   D.   Bond Required: A performance bond in an amount adequate to cover the
cost of construction must be posted before any installation of mains and fire
hydrants can begin hereunder in order to assure compliance with the foregoing,
and that said hydrants and water mains shall be properly installed and
maintained according to specifications of the town department of public works.
Said bond will not be released until the requirements are met and all fire
hydrants and water mains connected thereto are certified in writing to be in
good operating condition by the public works superintendent. (1980 Code § 14-
173)
8-1-15: NONPERMANENT, SEASONAL CONNECTIONS:
The town may authorize nonpermanent water connections for seasonal uses which
can be completely disconnected at the end of said seasonal use. A nonpermanent
connection shall not be issued to any dwelling unit, commercial use or any
other permanent building even though it may only be operated on a seasonal
basis. The fee for water usage for nonpermanent connections shall be
established by resolution. (Ord. 2000-O-3, 6-15-2000)
8-1-16: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Control: All fire hydrants within the limits of the town, and those
installed outside, shall be under the control of and shall be kept in repair by
the superintendent of the public works department in conjunction with the fire
marshal. (1980 Code § 14-116)
   B.   Purchase Of Water From Hydrants Authorized: The chief administrative
officer of the town, or his/her agent, may allow public or private contractors,
subcontractors or other legitimate users to purchase water from fire hydrants.
Any entity requesting to purchase water from a hydrant must demonstrate to the
town that it has employees with the skills necessary to operate the equipment
set forth in subsection D of this section without damage to the hydrant and
without causing contamination to the town water system. A fee shall be charged
for said application; said fee to be established by resolution.
   C.   Applications In Writing Required: Applications for the purchase of
water from fire hydrants shall be completed and approved at least forty eight
(48) hours prior to the water being purchased. A properly issued application
shall constitute a permit for the purchase and taking of water and must be
present at the site where water is being taken. Said application and permit
shall only be used at the hydrant specified in the application. Purchase price
for the water shall be established by resolution.
   D.   Town To Require Specified Equipment: No water shall be taken from any
fire hydrant within the town unless a flow meter with a shutoff valve and
backflow preventer is used. Said flow meter shall either be furnished by the
town or shall be one acceptable to the town. The flow meter shall be returned
to the town in good working condition immediately upon completion of use. If
the town flow meter is used, a deposit in an amount which is at least the
replacement cost of said flow meter shall be charged, which amount shall be
established by resolution.
   E.   Charges And Regulations For Use Of Hydrants: Under the direction of the
chief administrative officer of the town, regulations for the use and purchase
of water from fire hydrants may be issued administratively. Fees for the usage
of equipment shall be charged and shall be set by resolution.
   F.   Proper Use And Indemnification: Any entity taking water from a fire
hydrant shall disconnect the flow meter and shutoff valve when water is not
being taken from the hydrant. All applicants shall agree to hold the town and
its officials and employees harmless from any and all claims, losses, damages,
costs and liability of any type which may arise as a result of the permittee's
use of the hydrant and water as authorized, and indemnify the town for any
costs it may incur thereby.
   G.   Responsibility For Damage: Any damage done to any equipment owned by
the town shall be the responsibility of and shall be paid for promptly by any
entity taking water from a fire hydrant. The town shall have the authority to
immediately revoke any permit on a showing that any damage has been done or
that any laws or regulations have been broken. (Ord. 2000-O-3, 6-15-2000)
   H.   Penalties For Unlawful Use: It shall be unlawful for any person,
business or any entity to take water from a fire hydrant without first
complying with the above laws. Violation of this section shall be a class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2000-O-3, 6-15-2000; amd. 2010 Code)
   I.   Fire Hydrants On Private Property:
      1.   Permit Required: No person, firm or corporation shall install a fire
hydrant or fire hydrant water supply piping on private property or cause the
same to be done, without first obtaining a permit for each structure from the
town building inspector.
      2.   Expense Of Owner; Maintenance: Any installation of a fire hydrant or
fire hydrant supply piping under this section shall be made at the expense of
the owner of the property upon which such installation is made and said hydrant
shall be installed and perpetually maintained by said person, or his successor
in interest, in compliance with the applicable fire hydrant specifications,
regulations and agreements of the department of public works.
      3.   Building Construction, Distance Requirements: It shall be unlawful
for any person to complete more than thirty percent (30%) of the construction
of any new building or building addition, other than buildings designed for use
as three (3) or less individual family dwelling units, when said building is
located on private property more than two hundred feet (200') from a fire
hydrant, measured from said fire hydrant. Whenever the building inspector
determines that any work is being done to the contrary to the provisions of
this subsection, he may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on
any person engaged in doing or causing such work to be done, and any such
person shall stop such work until authorized by the building inspector to
proceed with the work. (1980 Code § 14-174)
      4.   Specifications: All water outlets on fire hydrants installed
hereunder must meet the specifications of the department of public works. (1980
Code § 14-175)
      5.   Water Main Size Requirements: No new water main installation used to
service a fire hydrant shall be smaller than six inches (6") in diameter. (1980
Code § 14-176)
      6.   Number Of Hydrants Required For A Building: The following table
shall be used in determining the number of hydrants to be used for fire
protection in connection with the construction of any building not excluding
hereunder, with the location of each such hydrant to be determined and
designated by the fire marshal:
                          Number Of Hydrants Required
Building Area Square Feet 1 Story (Without Basement) 2 Stories Or More (1 Story
                                                     And Basement)
                          Number Of Hydrants Required
Building Area Square Feet 1 Story (Without Basement) 2 Stories Or More (1 Story
                                                     And Basement)
Up to 5,000               1                          1
5,000 to 15,000           2                          2
15,000 to 40,000          2                          3
40,000 to 100,000         3                          4
100,000 to 200,000        4                          5
200,000 to 300,000        5                          6
300,000 to 400,000        6                          8
Over 400,000              Discretion of fire marshal
 
(1980 Code § 14-177)
      7.   Bond: A performance bond in the amount adequate to cover the cost of
construction must be posted before any installation of fire hydrants can begin
hereunder in order to assure compliance with the foregoing. Said bond will not
be released until the requirements hereof are met and all water mains and fire
hydrants connected thereto are certified in writing to be in good operating
condition by the superintendent of the public works office. (1980 Code § 14-
178)
8-1-17: WATER SHUT OFF ALLOWED WITHOUT LIABILITY TO TOWN:
The town reserves the right to, at any time, without notice, shut off the water
from its mains for the purpose of making repairs or extensions or for other
purposes, and no claim shall be made against the town by reason of any breakage
whatsoever, or for any damage that may result from the shutting off of water
for repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants or other connections, or for
any other reason whatsoever. (1980 Code § 14-124)
8-1-18: GOOD REPAIR OF PRIVATE SERVICE REQUIRED:
All water takers shall keep their service pipes, connections and other
apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at their own expense. (1980
Code § 14-125)
8-1-19: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Use Of Water Without Payment Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person, by himself, family, servants or agents to use the water coming through
the water mains without first paying therefor as provided in this chapter.
(1980 Code § 14-135)
   B.   Tampering With Water Supply Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person, by himself, family, servants or agents without authority to open any
stock cock, valve or other fixture attached to the system of water supply, or
in any way to injure, deface or impair any part of appurtenance of the
waterworks, or to cast anything into any reservoir or tank belonging to said
works. (1980 Code § 14-136)
   C.   Turning On After Being Turned Off Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person, after the water has been turned off from his premises on account of
nonpayment of rates or other violation of the rules and regulations pertaining
to the water supply, or for any reason, to turn on or allow the water to be
turned on, or use or allow the water to be used without authority from the
superintendent of the public works. (1980 Code § 14-137)
   D.   Unlawful To Waste Water: It shall be unlawful for any user of the town
water system to waste or cause to waste any waters coming from the culinary
water system. Failure to abide with this law shall cause shutoff of all water
to the premises, plus a fine to be decided by the superintendent of the public
works office. (1980 Code § 14-139)
   E.   Mutilation Of Signs Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to deface, mutilate, tear down or in any way destroy any signs erected
by the department of public works. Penalties will be levied. (1980 Code § 14-
168)
   F.   Bathing In Streams Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
bath or swim in any of the waters, reservoirs or streams within the limits of
the town, except in public or private bath houses. Penalties will be levied.
(1980 Code § 14-169)
8-1-20: USE LIMITED BY PROCLAMATION DURING SCARCITY:
   A.   Authority: In the event of the scarcity of water, whenever it shall, in
the judgment of the mayor and the town council, be necessary, the mayor shall
by proclamation limit the use of water for other than domestic purposes, to
such extent which may be required for the public good. (1980 Code § 14-138)
   B.   Violation Of Proclamation Prohibited; Additional Penalty: It shall be
unlawful for any person by himself, family, servants or agents to violate any
proclamation made by the mayor in pursuance of this section, and if any
violation thereof shall occur, then in addition to any other penalty thereof,
the water supply to the premises upon which such violation occurs shall be shut
off and if shut off on that account it shall not be turned on again until the
payment of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each violation of the said proclamation.
(1980 Code § 14-140)
8-1-21: SHUT OFF FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY:
It shall be the duty of the superintendent of waterworks to cause the water
supply to be shut off of the premises of any water taker who shall fail to make
application and pay the charges therefor for the installation of water meter
within fifteen (15) days after notice in writing from the superintendent of
waterworks so to do, and the water shall not be turned on for use on such
premises until meter has been installed and all charges and rates paid in full,
together with the required charge for turning on the water. (1980 Code § 14-
151)
CHAPTER 2
BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Responsibilities For Protection
8-2-4: Requirements
8-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Help protect the safe drinking water supply of the town from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by requiring compliance with state
and local plumbing codes, health regulations, OSHA and other applicable
industry standards for water system safety within all water consumers internal
distribution systems or private water systems. Compliance with these minimum
safety codes, regulations and standards will be considered reasonable effort to
control contaminants or pollutants which could backflow into the public
drinking water systems; and
   B.   Promote reasonable elimination or control of cross connections in the
plumbing fixtures and industrial piping systems of the consumer, as required by
state and local plumbing codes, health regulations, OSHA and other applicable
industry standards to assure water system safety; and
   C.   Provide for the administration of a continuing program of backflow
prevention which will systematically help prevent the contamination or
pollution of all drinking water systems. (Ord. 1991-O-1, 3-14-1991)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY: An assembly, mechanism or device which is accepted
by the Utah department of health, bureau of drinking water/sanitation, as
meeting an applicable specification or as suitable for a proposed use.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to a water consumer's
premises other than the town public water supply will be considered as an
auxiliary water supply. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public potable water supply or any natural sources such as a well,
spring, river, stream, harbor, etc., or "used waters" or "industrial fluids".
These waters may be contaminated or polluted, or they may be objectionable and
constitute an unacceptable water source over which the water purveyor does not
have authority for sanitary control.
BACK PRESSURE: Pressure which causes the flow of water or other liquids,
mixtures or substances into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply
system from any sources other than the intended source.
BACK SIPHONAGE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any sources other
than the intended source, caused by the reduction of pressure in the potable
water supply system.
BACKFLOW: The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly, device or mechanism designed to
prevent backflow. Specifications for backflow prevention assemblies are
contained within the Utah plumbing code, chapter 10, (appendix J), and the
cross connection control program for Utah.
CONTAMINATION: A degradation of the quality of the potable water supply by
sewage, industrial fluids, waste liquids, compounds or any other materials or
substances.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or fixtures
which may allow nonpotable water or industrial fluids or other substances of
questionable quality to come in contact with potable water inside a
distribution system. This would include any temporary connections, such as
swing connections, removable sections, four (4) way plug valves, spools, dummy
sections of pipe, swivel or change over devices or sliding multiport tubes or
other plumbing arrangements.
CROSS CONNECTION, CONTAINMENT: The installation of an approved backflow
assembly at the water service connection to any water consumer's premises where
it is physically and economically infeasible to locate and/or permanently
eliminate or control all actual or potential cross connections within the
customer's water system; or, it shall mean the installation of an approved
backflow prevention assembly on the service line leading to and supplying a
portion of a water consumer's water system where there are actual or potential
cross connections which cannot be effectively eliminated or controlled at the
point of the cross connection.
CROSS CONNECTION, CONTROLLED: A connection between a potable water system and a
nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly properly
installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the protection
commensurate with the degree of hazard.
WATER PURVEYOR: The water department superintendent or other legally appointed
agent of the town who shall be vested with the authority and responsibility for
the implementation of an effective cross connection control program and for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1991-O-1, 3-14-1991)
8-2-3: RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PROTECTION:
   A.   Town Responsibility:
      1.   Drinking water system surveys/inspections of the consumer's water
distribution system shall be conducted or caused to be conducted by individuals
deemed qualified by and representing the town. Survey records shall indicate
the status of compliance with the aforementioned health and safety standards.
All such records will be maintained by the town.
      2.   The town shall notify, in writing, all water consumers of the need
of the periodic system survey to ensure compliance with existing applicable
minimum health and safety standards.
      3.   Selection of an approved backflow prevention assembly for
contaminant control required at the service entrance shall be determined from
the results of the system survey.
   B.   Consumer Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the consumer
to:
      1.   Comply with this chapter as a term and condition of the supply of
water service by the town.
      2.   Purchase, install, test and maintain any backflow prevention device/
assembly required to comply with this chapter.
   C.   Plumbing Official Responsibility:
      1.   The plumbing official's responsibility to enforce the applicable
sections of the plumbing code begins at the point of service (downstream or
consumer side of the meter) and continues throughout the developed length of
the consumer's water system.
      2.   The plumbing official will review all plans to ensure that
unprotected cross connections are not an integral part of the consumer's water
system. If a cross connection cannot be eliminated, it must be protected by the
installation of an air gap or an approved backflow prevention device/assembly,
in accordance with the state plumbing code.
      3.   Water vacating the drinking water supply must do so via approved air
gap or approved mechanical backflow prevention assembly, properly installed and
in accordance with the state plumbing code.
   D.   Certified Backflow Assembly Technicians, Surveyors Or Repair Persons
Responsibilities:
      1.   Whether employed by the consumer or a utility to survey, test,
repair or maintain backflow prevention assemblies, all certified backflow
technicians, surveyors or repair persons will have the following
responsibilities:
         a.   Ensure acceptable testing equipment and procedures are used for
testing, repairing or overhauling backflow prevention assemblies.
         b.   Make reports of such testing and/or repair to the consumer, water
purveyor, and the state bureau of drinking water/sanitation on forms approved
for such use by the bureau of drinking water/sanitation, and within the time
frames prescribed by the bureau of drinking water/sanitation.
         c.   Include in said report a list of materials or replacement parts
used.
         d.   Ensure that replacement parts are equal in quality to parts
originally supplied by the manufacturer of the assembly being repaired.
         e.   Refrain from changing the design, material or operational
characteristics of said assembly during testing, repair or maintenance.
         f.   Perform all tests of said assemblies, and be responsible for the
completeness and accuracy of all tests and reports.
         g.   Ensure that their license is current, the testing equipment being
used is acceptable to the state, and that it is in proper operating condition.
         h.   Be equipped with, and be competent to use, all tools, gauges and
other equipment necessary to properly test and maintain backflow prevention
assemblies.
         i.   Tag each double check valve, pressure vacuum breaker, reduced
pressure backflow assembly and high hazard air gap, showing the serial number,
date tested and by whom. The technician's license number must also be on this
tag. (Ord. 1991-O-1, 3-14-1991)
      2.   In the case of a consumer requiring a commercially available
technician, any certified technician is authorized to make the test and report
the results of that test to the consumer, the town and the bureau of drinking
water/sanitation. If such commercially tested assembly is in need of repair,
state law requires a licensed plumber make the actual repair. (Ord. 1991-O-1,
3-14-1991; amd. 2010 Code)
8-2-4: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Policy:
      1.   No water service connection to any premises or facility shall be
installed or maintained by the public water purveyor unless the water supply is
protected as required by state laws, regulations, codes and this chapter.
Service of water to a consumer found to be in violation of this chapter shall
be discontinued by the water purveyor after written notification of the
violation and an appropriate time allowed for voluntary compliance, if:
         a.   A backflow prevention assembly required by this chapter for
control of backflow and cross connections is not installed, tested and
maintained; or
         b.   It is determined that a backflow prevention assembly has been
removed or bypassed; or
         c.   An unprotected cross connection exists; or
         d.   If the periodic system survey has not been conducted.
Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
      2.   All water consumer systems shall be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the town to determine whether
cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including violations
of this chapter, exist and to audit the results of the system survey.
      3.   Whenever the town determines that a water consumer's service
connection or water usage contributes a sufficient hazard to the town water
supply or any other water consumer's water supply, an approved backflow
prevention assembly shall be installed on the service line of the identified
consumer's water line or system, at or near said consumer's property line, or
immediately inside the building, structure or facility being served; but, in
all cases, said assembly shall be installed before the first branch line
leading off the service line.
      4.   The type of protective assembly required under the foregoing
subsection shall depend upon the degree of hazard which exists at the point of
cross connection (whether direct or indirect), applicable to local and state
requirements or resulting from the system survey.
      5.   All presently installed backflow prevention assemblies which do not
meet the requirements of this section but which were assemblies approved for
the purposes described herein at the time of installation and which have been
properly maintained shall, except for the inspection and maintenance
requirements under the foregoing subsections, be excluded from the requirements
of these rules so long as the water purveyor is satisfied that they will
satisfactorily protect the town water system and water supply. Whenever an
existing assembly is moved from its present location or requires more than
minimum maintenance, or when the water purveyor finds that the operation or
maintenance of any assembly constitutes a hazard to health, said assembly shall
be replaced by an approved backflow prevention assembly meeting all applicable
local and state requirements.
      6.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer at any premises
or facility where backflow prevention assemblies are installed to have
certified surveys/inspections and operational tests conducted at least once per
year at said consumer's expense. In any instance where the water purveyor
discovers a hazard or threat to the town water system or water supply, he may
require certified surveys/inspections and tests at a more frequent interval. It
shall be the duty of the water purveyor to see that such tests are conducted in
accordance with the standards set forth by the state department of health,
bureau of drinking water/sanitation.
      7.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested within ten (10)
working days of initial installation.
      8.   No backflow prevention assembly shall be installed so as to create a
safety hazard (e.g., installed over an electrical panel, steam pipes, boilers,
pits or above ceiling level).
   B.   If violations of this chapter exist, or if no required corrective
action has been taken by any water consumer within ten (10) days of written
notification of deficiencies noted within the system survey, then the water
purveyor shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the water consumer's
premises or facility until said consumer has corrected the deficient condition
in conformance with the state and town statutes, regulations, guidelines and
ordinances relating to plumbing and safe drinking water supplies. (Ord. 1991-O-
1, 3-14-1991)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Sewer Department And System
8-3-3: Superintendent
8-3-4: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-3-5: Application For Sewer Connection
8-3-6: Private Wastewater Disposal
8-3-7: Permit Required
8-3-8: Fees, Rates And Charges
8-3-9: Annual Review Of Operational Costs
8-3-10: Sanitary Sewers, Building Sewers And Connections
8-3-11: Use Regulations Of Public Sewers
8-3-12: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-3-13: Penalties
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BIOCHEMICAL     The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of
OXYGEN DEMAND   organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five (5)
(BOD):          days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams
                per liter.
                That part of the lowest horizontal piping of the drainage system
                which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage
BUILDING DRAIN: pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
                building sewer, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the
                inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other
                place of disposal, also called "house connection".
CESSPOOL:       An underground reservoir for liquid waste (as household sewage).
EASEMENT:       An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
                others.
                Oil, fat or grease in physical state such that it will separate by
                gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
FLOATABLE OIL:  facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat
                if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere
                with the collection system.
GARBAGE:        The animal and vegetable waste resulting from processes, trade or
                business, as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
                Any user who discharges waste into the system requiring higher
HEAVY USERS:    than normal biochemical oxygen demand, or greater than normal
                total suspended solids.
INDUSTRIAL      The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or business, as
WASTES:         distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
MAY:            Is permissive (see definition of Shall).
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet (including storm sewers) into a watercourse, pond,
                ditch, lake or other body of surface or groundwater.
                The owner of the real property to which the sewer system is
                connected, or to which the sewer system is required to be
                connected, which ownership is reflected on the records of the Salt
                Lake County recorder as of the date a charge or fee is assessed by
OWNER:          the town. Any person who sells real property, subject to a charge
                or fee assessed under this chapter, by means of a contract or
                instrument which does not transfer legal title to the buyer but
                only purports to transfer equitable title to the buyer, shall be
                deemed the "owner" of the premises for purposes of this chapter.
PERSON:         Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation
                or group.
                The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ions
pH:             concentration. The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions,
                in grams, per liter of solution. Neutral water, for example, has a
                pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion concentration of 107.
PRIVY:          A small building having a bench with holes through which the user
                may defecate or urinate.
                The wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
PROPERLY        that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will
SHREDDED        be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in
GARBAGE:        public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2")
                (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER:   A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency, public utility
                or the town.
RESIDENTIAL     The flow strengths and flow volume.
FLOWS:
                A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
SANITARY SEWER: residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
                institutions, together with minor quantities of groundwater,
                stormwater and surface waters that are not admitted intentionally.
SEPTIC TANK:    A tank in which the solid matter of continuous flowing sewage is
                disintegrated by bacteria.
SEWAGE:         The spent water of a community. The preferred term is
                "wastewater".
SEWER:          A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
SEWER LATERAL:  Sewer piping intended to serve a single building or residence.
SEWER MAINLINE: Sewer piping intended to serve more than one building or
                residence.
SHALL:          Is mandatory (see definition of May).
                Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
                given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
SLUG:           duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
                the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during
                normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection system
                and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
STORM DRAIN
(Sometimes      A drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface
Termed "STORM   water or unpolluted water from any source.
SEWER"):
SUPERINTENDENT: The person or agency charged with management of the system as
                designated by the town.
                Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of, or is
SUSPENDED       in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
SOLIDS:         removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard
                Methods For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater" and referred
                to as nonfilterable residue.
SYSTEM:         The sewer, wastewater or combined wastewater and stormwater or
                surface water facilities of the town.
                The water of quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria
UNPOLLUTED      in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving
WATER:          water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge
                to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities
                provided.
                The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
                may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from
WASTEWATER:     residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
                institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water and
                stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER      The structures, equipment and processes required to collect and
FACILITIES:     carry away wastewater and industrial wastes.
                A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water, either
WATERCOURSE:    continuously or intermittently. (Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-13-1994; amd.
                2010 Code; Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
 
8-3-2: SEWER DEPARTMENT AND SYSTEM:
The sewer department of the town shall administer the operation and maintenance
of the sewer system through its own employees or pursuant to interlocal
agreement with another government entity. (Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-13-1994)
8-3-3: SUPERINTENDENT:
There is hereby created the position of superintendent of the sewer department.
The superintendent of the sewer department shall manage and supervise the Town
sewer system pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and pursuant to
resolutions, rules and regulations adopted by the town council from time to
time prescribing his powers and duties and directing the manner and frequency
with which he shall make reports to the mayor relating to the sewer system. All
of the functions and activities of the superintendent shall be carried on under
the direction of the mayor and may be performed pursuant to an interlocal
agreement wherein the manager or superintendent of the contracting agency shall
serve as the superintendent for the town. Absent an interlocal agreement, the
town manager shall serve as the superintendent. (Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-13-1994; amd.
Ord. 2021-O- 1, 3-10-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
8-3-4: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   D.   The owner of every structure or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town is hereby
required, at the owner's expense, to install suitable sewer facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the public sewer in accordance
with the provision of this chapter, within sixty (60) days after date of
official notice to do so, provided the sewer is within three hundred feet
(300') of the owner's property line and shall be charged a quarterly sewer fee
effective sixty (60) days after receiving notice. (Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-13-1994;
amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
8-3-5: APPLICATION FOR SEWER CONNECTION:
   A.   Required:
      1.   Any person, other than a subdivider or developer seeking multiple
connections, who desires or is required to secure a new connection to the town
sewer system, shall file with the sewer department for each such connection a
written and signed connection application in the form supplied by the town.
      2.   All owners or other persons who use the sewer system shall also
adhere to this chapter and to the Cottonwood improvement district rules and
regulations pertaining to wastewater treatment.
   B.   Subdividers, Developers: Whenever a subdivider or developer desires or
is required to install sewer connections and extensions for a subdivision or
development, the subdivider or developer shall enter into a written agreement
which shall constitute an application for permission to make the extensions and
connections, and an agreement specifying the terms and conditions under which
the sewer extensions and connections shall be made and the payments that shall
be required. (Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-13-1994)
8-3-6: PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
   A.   Permitted: Where a public sanitary sewer is not available within three
hundred feet (300') of the building, the building sewer shall be connected to a
private wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this
section.
   B.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
issued by the town. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as deemed necessary. A permit and
inspection fee shall be paid to the town at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Inspections: Permission to use the system for a private wastewater
disposal system shall not be authorized until the installation is completed in
compliance with the approved plans applicable with all state and local codes
and this chapter. Authorized town employees or representatives shall be allowed
to inspect the work at any stage of construction. The applicant for the permit
shall notify the town manager when the work is ready for final inspection and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within two (2) business days of the receipt of notice by the town manager.
   D.   Compliance With State: The type, capacities, location and layout of a
private wastewater disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the
state department of environmental quality. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   E.   When Public Sewer Available: At such time as a public sewer becomes
available to a property served by a private wastewater disposal system, the
owner shall make a direct connection to the public sewer within sixty (60) days
after receiving, and subject to, notice of availability from the town, in
compliance with this chapter, and shall pay the quarterly fee to the town, and
the private disposal system shall be disconnected and made inoperable.
   F.   Operation And Maintenance: When a public sewer is not available, the
owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal facilities in
a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the town. All private
wastewater shall be disposed of at the sewer dump station located within the
town.
   G.   Wastewater disposal within Upper Albion Basin Protection Overlay Zone:
      1.   Where a public sanitary sewer is available, buildings constructed
within the Upper Albion Basin Protection Overlay Zone shall be connected to the
public system using AWWA C-900 pipe.
      2.   If connection to a public sanitary system is not available, a
private wastewater disposal system shall be installed which shall meet the
following requirements:
         a.   Written approval by the Salt Lake Valley health department.
         b.   Disposal system shall consist of holding tank(s) equipped with an
effective alarm system that remotely notifies the property owner and the Town
of Alta in the event that the holding tank reaches seventy five percent (75%)
of full level.
         c.   Disposal system shall be equipped with an automatic water shut-
off feature to the building in the event that the holding tank reaches seventy
five percent (75%) of full level.
         d.   Building owner shall maintain and submit to the Town of Alta
pumping records for each holding tank at least once every year.
      3.   Section 8-3-6 (G)(2) does not apply to lots within the UABPOZ which
contain dwellings that existed at the time this ordinance was passed except if
the dwelling is renovated or remodeled to the degree that the Building Code
requires the structure to meet current standards, then the dwelling shall meet
the requirements of subsection 2 above. (Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-13-1994; amd. Ord.
2021-O-1, 3-10-2021; Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
8-3-7: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer, or appurtenance thereof, without
first obtaining a written permit from the town. (Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-13-1994)
8-3-8: FEES, RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Set By Resolution: The rates, penalty fee for delinquency in payment,
connection fee, reconnection fee, inspection fee and other charges incidental
to connection and services from the town sewer system shall be fixed from time
to time by resolution enacted by the town council. The town council may from
time to time promulgate rules for levying, billing, guaranteeing and collecting
charges for water services and all other rules necessary for the management and
control of the system. Rates for services furnished shall be uniform with
respect to each class or classes of service established or that may hereafter
be established.
   B.   Costs Of Building Sewer: All costs and expense incidental to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   C.   Responsible Party: Irrespective of the occupant, user, tenant,
cotenant, permissive user, contract purchaser or any other person, firm,
partnership, corporation or entity being in possession of the premises to which
a connection is supplied or service is made available, the owner of the
premises according to the records of the Salt Lake County recorder as of the
date the charge, fee or assessment is made, unless designated otherwise, shall
be legally responsible for the payment of all charges, fees, assessments,
obligations or liabilities of a user. Any person who sells property subject to
this chapter by means of a contract or instrument which does not transfer legal
title to the buyer but only purports to transfer equitable title to the buyer
and thus retains legal title to the property in the seller's name, shall be
deemed the owner of the premises. If any delinquent sewer connections, sewer
user charge, repairs, maintenance or any other obligation is imposed against
any premises, property, buildings or structures, the obligation shall be deemed
by the town as a lien upon all of the real property on which any use is made
from a sewer connection. Water service to delinquent property shall be turned
off by the town for failure to pay said fee, assessment, charge or liability
and will not be turned on again to those premises where a delinquency occurs
unless and until all liabilities to the town for sewer service are paid in
full.
   D.   Interest Charge On Delinquent Or Past Due Accounts: The mayor and town
council may, at their discretion and at the highest legal rate impose an
interest charge or a late fee on all past due accounts, either for connection
fees, user charges, maintenance, repair or any other charge which is provided
for, imposed or authorized by this chapter.
   E.   Billing; Delinquency; Discontinuance Of Service:
      1.   The sewer department, water department, or such other person as the
governing body may designate, shall furnish to each user by mail or leave at
his place of residence or usual place of business, a written or printed
statement stating the sewer service charges assessed against him each quarter,
or at such other regular intervals as the governing body shall direct. The
statement shall specify the amount of the bill, the place of payment, and the
date due.
      2.   If any person fails to pay his sewer charges within thirty (30) days
of the date due, the town shall give the customer notice in writing of the
intent to discontinue the service of water to the premises unless the customer
pays the bill in full within five (5) days from the date of notice.
      3.   If the water service is thereafter discontinued for failure to make
payment of the sewer service charges, before the water service to the premises
shall again be provided, all delinquent sewer charges must have been paid to
the town treasurer or arrangements made for their payment that are satisfactory
to the town.
      4.   In the event water is turned off for nonpayment of sewer charges,
before the water services to the premises shall again be provided, the customer
shall pay, in addition to all delinquent charges, and administrative costs,
such extra charge for turning the water on and off as the governing body may
have established by resolution or ordinance.
      5.   If any person fails to pay his sewer charges within thirty (30) days
of the due date, the town is hereby authorized to take all action necessary to
enforce collection, including, but not limited to, the commencement of legal
proceedings in a court of proper jurisdiction seeking judgment for all the
amount of the delinquent fees and service charges, and all costs of collection,
including court costs and reasonable attorney fees.
   F.   Annual Notification: Each user will be notified at least annually, in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the rates. (Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-13-1994; amd.
Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
8-3-9: ANNUAL REVIEW OF OPERATIONAL COSTS:
The town shall review the total annual cost of operation and maintenance, long
term debt service relating to the wastewater treatment works, if any, as well
as each user's wastewater contribution percentage at least once every year, and
will revise the user charge system as necessary to assure equity of the system
established herein and to assure that sufficient funds are obtained from the
town user charge system to: a) adequately operate and maintain the wastewater
system; b) cover said debt service, if any; and c) pay all charges and
assessments required by the Cottonwood improvement district. (Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-
13-1994)
8-3-10: SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Separate Connection Required; Exceptions: A separate and independent
building sewer shall be provided for every building; except, where one building
stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is
available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole system will be considered as one
building sewer. Current users in violation of this subsection but which comply
with regulations of the Cottonwood improvement district shall be exempt. The
town does not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage
caused by or resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
   B.   Existing Building Sewers: Building sewers which formerly serviced
buildings, which buildings no longer exist or are torn down, may be used in
connection with newly constructed buildings only when the building sewer is
examined and tested by the town sewer and water superintendent and found to
meet all requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Construction, Installation: The size, slope, alignment, materials or
construction of all sanitary sewers, including building sewers, and the methods
to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and
backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building
and plumbing codes, or other applicable rules and regulations of the town and
the state. In the absence of these code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
ASTM and WPCF manual of practice no. 9 shall apply. Sewer mainline and sewer
lateral piping within the Upper Albion Basin Protection Overlay Zone shall be
constructed of AWWA C-900 piping unless otherwise approved by Town.
   D.   Elevation: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought from
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in
which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer. Where such means are necessary, the
owner shall be responsible for all installations, maintenance and operating
costs for their operations.
   E.   Polluted Surface Drainage: No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface
runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer, unless such
connection is approved by the town and the state department of environmental
quality for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   F.   Connection Requirements: The connection of the building sewer into the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
codes, or other applicable rules and regulations of the town and the state, or
the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF
manual of practice no. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and
watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the town before installation. All excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the town and to a condition equal to or better than the
condition existing prior to the work being performed. (Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-13-
1994; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
8-3-11: USE REGULATIONS OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause the discharge of any unpolluted
waters, such as stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage or cooling water to any sewer. Stormwater runoff from limited areas,
which stormwater may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the sanitary
sewer by permission of the town and state department of environmental quality.
   B.   Stormwater, other than that exempted under subsection A of this
section, and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to natural outlets approved
by the town and the state department of environmental quality. Unpolluted
industrial cooling water or process waters shall also be discharged to a storm
sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters, liquids or wastes to any public sewers: 1) any
gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive liquid,
solid or gas; 2) any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
other wastes to contaminate or interrupt any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard in or have an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the works; 3) any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater works; and 4) solid or
viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction
to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper operation of the
wastewater facilities, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud,
straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood underground
garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper
dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
Each person or user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an
increase in the cost of managing the effluent of the sludge of the wastewater
treatment works shall pay for such increased costs.
   D.   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to the municipal system to concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either the sewers, the sludge of any municipal
system, the wastewater treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream or equipment, or will not otherwise endanger
lives, public property or constitute a nuisance. The town may set limitations
below if such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above
objectives. In setting these requirements, the town will give consideration to
such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the
wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the sewers, capacity of the
wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations or
restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged
to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the town
are as follows:
      1.   Wastewater having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65 degrees Celsius).
      2.   Wastewater containing more than twenty five (25) milligrams per
liter of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral
oil origin.
      3.   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage
originates from the preparation of food in commercial kitchens for the purpose
of consumption on the premises.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the state for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing odor producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the state.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life of
concentration as may exceed limits established in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations.
      8.   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both, which constitute a
"slug", as defined in section
8-3-1 of this chapter.
      9.   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
      10.   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   E.   If any water or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated above, and which are determined by the town to have
a deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the town may:
      1.   Reject the wastes.
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers.
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
this chapter. If the town permits the pretreatment of equalization or waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the town and the state department of health.
      4.   Require a plot plan of sewers on the user's property showing sewer
and pretreatment facility location.
      5.   Require details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
      6.   Require details of systems to prevent and control the loss of
materials through spills to the municipal sewer.
   F.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, durations and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis, subject to approval by the town.
   G.   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the town for treatment.
   H.   No persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any persons violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest and charged according to law. (Ord. 1994-
O-1, 1-13-1994; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
8-3-12: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Authority To Enter Premises: Duly authorized employees or
representatives of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall
be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to the discharge to
the community system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Information May Be Obtained: Duly authorized town employees or
representatives are authorized to obtain information concerning industrial
processes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to
the wastewater collection system. Industrial users may withhold information
when they have established that the revelation of said information to the
public might result in an advantage to competitors.
   C.   Interceptors: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified
herein, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients are
introduced into public sewers; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units, all interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the state plumbing code, and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In
the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the
proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captivated material and
shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to
review by the town. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by owner's personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste
disposal firms.
   D.   Maintenance Of Facilities: Where pretreatment or flow equalization
facilities are provided or required for any water or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
its expense.
   E.   Observation, Sampling Structure: When determined necessary by the town,
the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes shall install a suitable structure, together with such necessary meters
and other appurtenances in the building sewer, to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such structures, when required, shall
be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with
plans approved by the town. The structure shall be installed by the owner at
his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at
all times.
   F.   Compliance Requirements: The town may require any user of sewer
services to provide information needed to determine compliance with this
chapter. These requirements may include:
      1.   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period.
      2.   Chemical analysis of wastewaters.
      3.   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality.
      4.   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvents
or other materials important to sewer control.
   G.   Safety Rules: While performing the necessary work on private properties
referred to herein, the duly authorized employees or representatives of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees or representatives, and the town shall indemnify the company
against loss or damage to its property for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain safe conditions.
   H.   Authority To Enter Where Easements Exist: Duly authorized employees or
representatives of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall
be permitted to enter all private properties through which the town holds a
duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the wastewater facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any, on said easement shall be done in full accordance with terms of
the easement pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-13-
1994)
8-3-13: PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except nonpayment of charges, shall be served by the town with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-13-1994)
   B.   Misdemeanor Offense: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for the notice, shall be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-13-1994; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Liability For Expenses, Loss: Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the town for the expense,
loss, attorney fees or damage occasioned the town by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 1994-O-1, 1-13-1994)
TITLE 9
BUILDING CODES AND CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING AND RELATED CODES; REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Purpose And Intent
9-1-2: Codes Adopted
9-1-2-1: Code Amendments
9-1-3: Successor Codes
9-1-4: Removal And/Or Storage Of Snow In Violation Of Approved Plan
9-1-5: Outside Agency Approval For Development Prior To Planning Commission
Review
9-1-6: Fees
9-1-7: Hazardous Materials
9-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish the regulatory codes
and guidelines to govern construction within the town in a thorough and concise
manner while also providing for the adoption of changes to the codes and
guidelines without the necessity of adopting new ordinances for each change or
amendment to said codes and guidelines. (2010 Code)
9-1-2: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Building Code: The international building code (IBC), as adopted by the
state, is hereby adopted as the official building code for the town, subject to
section
9-1-3 of this chapter. (2010 Code)
   B.   Fire Code:
      1.   For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire and explosion, the 2009 edition of the
international fire code ("IFC"), and any subsequent editions, including the
international fire code standards, is hereby adopted including appendices B, C,
D, E, F, G, H, I and J but not appendix A thereof, with such amendments as are
set forth below.
      2.   Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 10-3-711 (17-53-208), upon passage
hereof, a copy of the international fire code shall be placed on file in the
office of the town clerk for the use and examination of the public. (Ord. 2010-
O-3, 12-9-2010, eff. retroactive to 7-1-2010)
   C.   Uniform Code For Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings: The town hereby
adopts the 1997 edition of the uniform code for the abatement of dangerous
buildings (UCADB), as adopted by the International Code Council.
   D.   Wastewater Disposal Regulations: The town hereby adopts the Salt Lake
Valley health department wastewater disposal regulations.
   E.   Other Codes As Approved: All other building, plumbing, electrical,
mechanical, energy and/or natural gas codes established and adopted as standard
by the state, including amendments thereto, shall hereby become established as
the adopted codes of the town, subject to section
9-1-3 of this chapter. (2010 Code)
9-1-2-1: CODE AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Amendments To The Fire Code:
      1.   The town of Alta hereby adopts by reference and incorporates herein
the amendments to the international fire code, 2009 edition, adopted by the
Utah state legislature pursuant to section 58-56-4 in house bill 308 (2010
general session).
      2.   Section 903.4.2 of the international fire code, 2009 edition is
amended to read as follows:
903.4.2 Alarms. Approved audible devices shall be connected to every automatic
sprinkler system serving more than 20 fire sprinkler heads. Such sprinkler
water flow alarm devices shall be activated by water flow equivalent to the
flow of a single sprinkler of the smallest orifice size installed in the
system. Alarm devices shall be provided on the exterior of the building and
interior spaces per NFPA 72 in an approved location. With the exception of R-
3 occupancies where a fire alarm system is installed, actuation of the
automatic sprinkler system shall actuate the building fire alarm system.
(Ord. 2010-O-3, 12-9-2010, eff. retroactive to 7-1-2010)
9-1-3: SUCCESSOR CODES:
The adoption of any and all codes, as established herein as the adopted codes
of the town, shall also adopt any replacement or successor codes as they become
adopted by the state and shall become effective by the town immediately upon
passage by the state. (2010 Code)
9-1-4: REMOVAL AND/OR STORAGE OF SNOW IN VIOLATION OF APPROVED PLAN:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any developer, landowner, homeowners'
association, or other persons having responsibility for maintenance of common
areas and/or general management of condominium or planned unit developments, or
subdivisions, to remove or store snow, or to allow snow to remain which should
be removed, in violation of the plan which was approved as a condition for
building approval for any real property development within the town. (Ord.
1993-O-2, 1-27-1993)
   B.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall be a class C misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1993-O-2, 1-27-1993; amd. 2010 Code)
9-1-5: OUTSIDE AGENCY APPROVAL FOR DEVELOPMENT PRIOR TO PLANNING COMMISSION
REVIEW:
   A.   Each real property development proposal brought to the town must have
evidence of approval from each of the following agencies or political
subdivisions of the United States government or state government prior to
submission to the town planning commission for further action. Said agencies or
political subdivisions are: Salt Lake City department of public utilities,
water division; Salt Lake Valley health department and division of water
quality; Salt Lake Valley health department, environmental health division;
Salt Lake County service area no. 3; Cottonwood improvement district; Utah
department of transportation; U.S. army corps of engineers; town marshal
department; and unified fire authority.
   B.   The town manager shall provide a list of the entities set forth in
subsection A of this section with contact information to those seeking to
develop within the town. The town manager is given the authority to change the
agency or political subdivision on said list in the event the same governmental
review function is transferred to another office. Entities may be added to this
list without amending this section on the condition that the town manager
inform the town council at a public meeting of a new entity exercising
jurisdiction over development. (Ord. 2002-O-4, 9-12-2002; amd. Ord. 2023-O-2,
4-12-2023)
9-1-6: FEES:
Fees for permits and inspections shall be in such amounts as established by
resolution of the town council. (2010 Code)
9-1-7: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
   A.   Storage: The storage of class I and class II hazardous materials in
aboveground or belowground tanks, inside and outside of buildings is prohibited
unless allowed by the zoning provisions applicable to the location in which the
proposed tanks are to be located. In addition, the storage of class I and class
II hazardous materials pursuant to this section is subject to the provisions of
NFPA 30, 58 and 59A.
   B.   Fees: In accordance with IFC, section 113, the town of Alta hereby
adopts by reference the fees for hazardous materials permitting and inspection,
fire inspection, fire watch, reinspection–delay in preparation at work site,
and blasting permitting which are attached to the ordinance codified herein as
exhibit A. The fee schedule shall be placed on file in the office of the town
clerk. All fees set out in exhibit A shall be collected by and paid to the
unified fire authority at the time the permit, inspection, reinspection or fire
watch staffing is requested and shall be a condition for issuance of the permit
and scheduling of the inspection, reinspection or fire watch staffing. (Ord.
2010-O-3, 12-9-2010, eff. retroactive to 7-1-2010)
ARTICLE A.  IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Definitions
9-1A-2: Impact Fees Adopted
9-1A-3: Fees Based On Reasonable Plan
9-1A-4: Right Of Appeal
9-1A-5: Voluntary Waiver Of Study
9-1A-6: Accounting, Expenditure And Refund Of Impact Fees
9-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this article shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
DEVELOPER: An individual or entity engaged in "development activity", as
defined in this section.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: Any new construction or expansion of commercial or
residential buildings, or any change in use of a building that creates
additional demand and need of public facilities.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL: Any written authorization from the town that authorizes
the commencement of development activity.
IMPACT FEE: A payment of money imposed upon development activity as a condition
of development approval. "Impact fee" does not mean a tax, a special
assessment, a building permit fee, a hookup fee, a fee for project
improvements, or other reasonable permit or application fee.
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS: Site improvements and facilities that are planned and
designed to provide service for development resulting from a development
activity; and necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or users
of development resulting from a development activity. "Project improvements"
does not mean "system improvements", as defined in this section.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE: The cost of public facility improvements that are roughly
proportionate and reasonably related to the service demands and needs of any
development activity.
PUBLIC FACILITIES: Capital facilities that have a life expectancy of ten (10)
or more years and are owned or operated by or on behalf of the town, a list of
which is set forth in section
9-1A-2 of this article.
SERVICE AREA: A geographic area designated by the town on the basis of sound
planning or engineering principles in which a defined set of public facilities
provide service within the area, which may include the entire town.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS: Existing public facilities that are designed to provide
services to service areas within the community at large, and future public
facilities identified in a plan that are intended to provide services to
service areas within the community at large. "System improvements" does not
mean "project improvements", as defined in this section.
For any terms not defined in this section, the town shall use as definitions
those definitions as found in the state impact fee act, Utah Code Annotated
section 11-36-102, as amended. (Ord. 1998-O-1, 3-12-1998, eff. 3-13-1998)
9-1A-2: IMPACT FEES ADOPTED:
   A.   Impact fees shall be collected by the town on development activity when
an analysis for financing system improvements establishes that such impact fees
are necessary to achieve an equitable allocation to the costs borne in the past
and to be borne in the future, in comparison to the benefits already received
and yet to be received, with respect to the following public facilities:
      1.   Water rights and water supply, treatment and distribution
facilities;
      2.   Wastewater collection and treatment facilities;
      3.   Stormwater, drainage and flood control facilities, to the extent the
town cooperates in the development of such with Salt Lake County division of
flood control;
      4.   Roadway facilities;
      5.   Parks, recreation facilities, open space and trails; and
      6.   Public safety facilities, which shall include "Alta Central".
   B.   Impact fees may also be imposed for public facility costs previously
incurred by the town to the extent that new growth and development will be
served by previously constructed improvements.
   C.   The town council may allow a credit against impact fees for any
dedication of land for, improvement to, or new construction of, any system
improvements provided by the developer if said facilities are required by the
town as a condition of approving the development activity.
   D.   Impact fees may be assessed for environmental mitigation if the town
formally agrees to fund a habitat conservation plan to resolve conflicts with
the endangered species act of 1973, or any other state or federal environmental
law or regulation, if the impact fee bears a reasonable relationship to the
environmental mitigation required by the habitat conservation plan. (Ord. 1998-
O-1, 3-12-1998, eff. 3-13-1998)
9-1A-3: FEES BASED ON REASONABLE PLAN:
   A.   Prior to the granting of a building permit on any development activity,
an impact fee analysis shall be undertaken to determine the amount of impact
fees which can be collected by the town consistent with the requirements of
section
9-1A-2 of this article. Said study shall be performed by a qualified
engineering firm or other firm showing demonstrated expertise in the field of
impact fee analysis and calculation. Said firm shall be mutually agreed upon by
the town manager and the developer; however, if agreement cannot be reached,
the names of three (3) such firms shall be submitted to the town council, which
shall, after allowing comment from the developer and the town manager, choose a
firm to conduct the study. In lieu of the foregoing procedure, a developer may
request that the town staff conduct a less formal impact fee analysis, the fee
for which shall be mutually agreed upon. The cost of either study shall be
borne by the developer.
   B.   The impact fee analysis study shall:
      1.   Identify the impact on system improvements required by the
development activity;
      2.   Demonstrate how those impacts on system improvements are reasonably
related to the development activity;
      3.   Estimate the proportionate share of the costs of impacts on other
system improvements that are reasonably related to the new development
activity; and
      4.   Identify how the impact fee was calculated, based on the factors and
requirements set forth in this article and in Utah Code Annotated section 11-
36-201(5), as amended.
   C.   If applicable, the impact fee analysis shall identify:
      1.   The cost of existing public facilities;
      2.   The manner of financing existing public facilities;
      3.   The relative extent to which the newly developed properties and the
other properties in the town have already contributed to the cost of existing
public facilities, by means as user charges, special assessments, or payment
from the proceeds of general taxes;
      4.   The relative extent to which the newly developed properties and the
other properties in the town will contribute to the cost of existing public
facilities in the future;
      5.   The extent to which the newly developed properties are entitled to a
credit because the town is requiring their developers or owners to provide
common facilities, inside or outside the proposed development, that have been
provided by the town and financed through general taxation or other means,
apart from user charges, in other parts of the town;
      6.   Extraordinary costs, if any, in servicing the newly developed
properties; and
      7.   The time price differential inherent in fair comparisons of amounts
paid at different times. (Ord. 1998-O-1, 3-12-1998, eff. 3-13-1998; amd. Ord.
2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
9-1A-4: RIGHT OF APPEAL:
If a developer does not agree with the impact fees as determined by the impact
fee analysis, an appeal can be made to the town council, which shall have the
power to waive or modify any proposed impact fee. The appeal must be in writing
and be delivered to the town clerk at least eight (8) days prior to the next
scheduled town council meeting. (Ord. 1998-O-1, 3-12-1998, eff. 3-13-1998)
9-1A-5: VOLUNTARY WAIVER OF STUDY:
Above provisions to the contrary notwithstanding, a developer may voluntarily
waive the right to have impact fees calculated as set forth above and choose to
pay impact fees as they existed on June 30, 1997: Impact fees for connection to
water and sewer systems as per then existing schedules and a fee of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per guestroom in each "dwelling unit", as defined
in section
10-1-6 of this code, and, if a building permit is applied for purposes of
constructing an improvement which does not consist of guestrooms, then a fee of
one percent (1%) of the total cost of the new construction. Fees collected
pursuant to this section shall only be allocated as authorized in this article.
(Ord. 1998-O-1, 3-12-1998, eff. 3-13-1998)
9-1A-6: ACCOUNTING, EXPENDITURE AND REFUND OF IMPACT FEES:
The town shall comply with Utah Code Annotated section 11-36-301 et seq., as
amended, with respect to the accounting for, expenditure of, and refund of any
impact fees it assesses. (Ord. 1998-O-1, 3-12-1998, eff. 3-13-1998)
CHAPTER 2
SMOKE DETECTORS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Regulations And Requirements
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
DWELLING UNIT: A single-family residence, each living unit of a multi-family
complex, each living unit of a mixed use building, or any other room or unit
used for human habitation.
SLEEPING AREAS: The area or areas of a dwelling unit where the bedrooms or
sleeping rooms are located.
SMOKE DETECTOR: A device capable of sensing visible or invisible particles of
combustion and providing a suitable audible alarm. (Ord. 89-O-2, 9-28-1989)
9-2-2: REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Installation Required: Beginning January 1, 1991, the owner of each new
or existing dwelling unit, including mobile homes, shall install smoke
detectors in that unit as provided for in this chapter.
   B.   Sleeping Areas: At least one smoke detector shall be installed to
protect each sleeping area in such a manner as to ensure that rising smoke is
not obstructed in reaching the detector. Where bedrooms or sleeping rooms are
separated by other use areas, including kitchens and living rooms, but not
including bathrooms or closets, they are considered separate sleeping areas for
the purpose of this chapter.
   C.   Stairways: At least one smoke detector shall be installed in or near
each stairway leading up to an occupied area in such a manner as to assure that
rising smoke is not obstructed in reaching the detector and the detector
intercepts rising smoke before it reaches the occupied area.
   D.   Power: In new residential dwellings, smoke detectors shall be wired
directly (hard wired) to the building's power supply. In existing dwellings,
detectors may be powered by self-monitored battery or operated in a plug-in
outlet which is fitted with a plug restrainer device, provided the outlet is
not controlled by a switch other than the main power supply.
   E.   Lease Or Rental Dwelling Units: The owner of buildings with lease or
rental dwelling units shall additionally:
      1.   Post and maintain detectors in common stairways and hallways.
      2.   Provide the tenant of each dwelling unit with written information
regarding detector testing and maintenance.
   F.   Tenants: Tenants in leased or rented dwelling units shall:
      1.   Test and provide general maintenance for the detectors within the
tenant's own dwelling unit and notify the owner or his agent in writing of any
deficiencies which the tenant cannot correct.
      2.   Replace any required batteries in the detectors within the tenant's
own dwelling unit.
      3.   Provide the owner or his agent with access to the dwelling unit to
correct any deficiencies in the detector which has been reported in writing as
provided in subsection F1 of this section. (Ord. 89-O-2, 9-28-1989)
   G.   Penalty For Failure To Comply: Any person who fails to install or
maintain in operating condition the smoke detector in accordance with this
chapter is guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   H.   Tampering Unlawful: Any person who tampers with, removes, destroys,
disconnects, or removes batteries from any installed smoke detector, except by
the owner or tenant for the purpose of inspection, maintenance, substitution,
or repair, is guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code.
   I.   New Occupancies: After January 1, 1991, at every change of occupancy of
every dwelling unit occasioned by or incidental to a sale, lease or sublease of
said unit, it shall be the duty of the grantor thereof (i.e., the seller,
lessor or sublessor, as the case may be) to provide, before occupancy, to the
new occupant that all smoke detectors as required by this section are installed
and in proper working condition. Failure to comply with this subsection shall
be punishable as set forth herein; provided, however, that this subsection
shall not be construed to vitiate or render void any contract, lease or
sublease subject hereto.
   J.   Fire Code Applicability; Conflicts:
      1.   This chapter is intended to be used with and supplemented by the
applicable provisions of the adopted fire code. If there shall be any conflict
between this chapter and the supplemental standards, this chapter and any rules
and regulations adopted pursuant thereto shall prevail. (Ord. 89-O-2, 9-28-
1989; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   a. Note: Battery powered smoke detectors are acceptable given that
an inspection and battery replacement plan is followed.
         b.   Battery powered units are acceptable due to the frequent power
outages experienced in the town. (Ord. 89-O-2, 9-28-1989)
CHAPTER 3
PRESERVATION OF VEGETATION DURING DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Site Plan Approval
9-3-3: Requirements For Preservation Or Replacement
9-3-4: Penalty
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms are defined as follows:
DEVELOPMENT: Any new building, including single-family dwellings, or addition
to an existing building; or any major reshaping, contouring, change or
alteration upon any surface lands.
MATURE TREE: Any tree over fifteen feet (15') in height.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, limited partnership or other
entity proposing development.
SAPLING: Any vigorous tree three feet (3') to fifteen feet (15') in height.
SEEDLING: Any tree six inches (6") to three feet (3') in height.
SITE PLAN: A detailed map prepared by a licensed land surveyor showing the
size, location, species or type of each plant, tree or grass on the lot or
parcel upon which development is contemplated. An approved site plan is one for
which the mayor or planning commission has given approval for the removal and/
or replacement of vegetation and/or trees if necessary.
VEGETATION: Any living plant, including grasses, shrubs and forbs. (Ord. 1992-
O-1, 6-11-1992)
9-3-2: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
   A.   Required; Approving Authority: It is the express policy of the town to
preserve as many mature trees as possible. It shall be unlawful for any person
to proceed with any development or remove mature trees within the town without
first having submitted a site plan and obtaining an approved site plan with
respect to vegetation. For single-family residential development, the mayor
shall provide said approval. For all other development, the planning commission
shall provide said approval. In order to obtain approval to remove mature
trees, a person must show that the failure to remove a mature tree will
constitute extreme hardship.
   B.   Forest Service Land: For development on forest service land, and
private land being developed in conjunction with forest service permitted land,
on which a building is not proposed or contemplated, written approval by the
forest service of a vegetation plan shall constitute approval from the town,
which must receive said written approval prior to issuing any building permits
and prior to any development proceeding. (Ord. 1992-O-1, 6-11-1992)
9-3-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR PRESERVATION OR REPLACEMENT:
   A.   Seedlings: Any seedling removed from the property shall be replaced
with three (3) vigorous seedlings of at least six inches (6") in height.
   B.   Saplings: Any sapling removed from the property shall be replaced with
three (3) vigorous seedlings at least six inches (6") in height and three (3)
vigorous saplings at least five feet (5') in height.
   C.   Mature Trees:
      1.   Any mature tree, if approved for removal from the property, shall be
replaced with five (5) vigorous seedlings at least six inches (6") in height
and five (5) vigorous saplings at least five feet (5') in height.
      2.   No mature tree shall be removed without site plan approval.
   D.   Survival; Replacement: Appropriate steps shall be taken to ensure all
planted trees survive. Any planted trees that do not survive shall be replaced.
   E.   Bond; Replacement: A two (2) year bond shall be given to the town in
the amount of the value of the replaced trees to be utilized in the event of
their death and nonreplacement by the developer or landowner. Submission of a
site plan shall constitute a license in favor of the town to enter upon a
development and replace dead vegetation in the event the landowner or developer
does not replace the same after written notice from the town to do so. (Ord.
1992-O-1, 6-11-1992)
9-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter, in addition to civil
remedies, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Landowners shall be jointly liable with persons developing
their land in the event of violations of this chapter. (Ord. 1992-O-1, 6-11-
1992; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 4
EXCAVATING, GRADING AND CUT AND FILL OPERATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Permits Required
9-4-3: Emergency Work
9-4-4: Applications And Submittals
9-4-5: Fees Required
9-4-6: Erosion Control, Revegetation And Drainage
9-4-7: Inspections Required
9-4-8: Penalty
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
COMPACTION: The densification of a fill by mechanical means.
CUT: The removal of earth material by any means. Also referred to as
"excavation", as defined in this section.
EMERGENCY WORK: Excavation, grading or cut and fill required to mitigate
imminent threats to the health, safety and well being of persons or property.
EROSION: The wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the movement of
wind, water or ice.
EXCAVATION: The removal of earth material by any means. Also referred to as a
"cut", as defined in this section.
FILL: Deposition of earth materials.
GRADE: The degree or inclination of a road or slope, datum or reference level,
especially ground level. The vertical location of the ground surface.
GRADE, EXISTING: The grade prior to grading.
GRADE, FINISHED: The grade of the site at the conclusion of all grading
efforts.
GRADING: An excavation or fill, or combination thereof.
MINOR LANDSCAPING AND GARDENING: Landscaping and gardening activities which do
not cause a vertical disturbance in excess of two feet (2'). Such activities
may include tree planting, vegetable gardening, planting of annual flowers or
other activities as determined by the building official.
SLOPE: An inclined surface, the inclination of which is expressed as a ratio or
horizontal distance to vertical distance. (Ord. 2009-O-2, 6-18-2009)
9-4-2: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: To reduce the possibility of erosion and eliminate
unsightly scars on the mountain slopes, all excavation, grading and cut and
fill operations shall be done under the strict control and approval of the
building official. No excavation, grading or cut and fill operations shall be
done without first obtaining a building permit for excavation, grading or cut
and fill from the building official. A separate approval or permit shall be
required for each property. A single permit for multiple contiguous properties
may be granted at the discretion of the building official.
   B.   Work Included: Excavation, grading and cut and fill building permits
are required for work, including, but not limited to, new developments,
construction projects, detention basins, ditches, drainage culverts, slopes in
excess of fifteen percent (15%), roads, utilities, exploratory excavations,
boring and drilling, and clearing of any site which contains trees and/or
vegetation.
   C.   Plans And Specifications: For work requiring a building permit, plans
and specifications shall be completed by a registered professional as
determined by the building official.
   D.   Exempt Activities: Activities exempt from permits shall include grading
activities associated with minor landscaping and gardening within one hundred
feet (100') of an existing structure, provided such activities would not
interrupt or modify existing surface drainage patterns. (Ord. 2009-O-2, 6-18-
2009)
9-4-3: EMERGENCY WORK:
   A.   Proceeding Without Permit: Any person maintaining pipes, lines or
facilities may proceed with work upon existing facilities without a permit when
emergency work demands the work to be done immediately, provided a permit could
not reasonably and practicably have been obtained beforehand.
   B.   Commencement During Regular Business Hours: If said emergency work
commenced during regular business hours, the building official shall be
notified within two (2) hours from the time the work commences. The person
commencing and conducting such work shall take all necessary safety precautions
for the protection of the public and shall ensure that work is accomplished
according to all requirements set out in this chapter.
   C.   Outside Business Hours: If said emergency work commences without a
permit outside of regular business hours, said person shall immediately
thereafter apply for a permit or give notice during the first hour of the first
regular business day on which the town office opens for business after such
work is commenced. A permit for such emergency may be issued which shall be
retroactive to the date when the work began. (Ord. 2009-O-2, 6-18-2009)
9-4-4: APPLICATIONS AND SUBMITTALS:
   A.   Information Required: To obtain a building permit or approval, the
applicant shall first file an application in writing on a building permit form
furnished by the building department for that purpose. Each building permit
application shall:
      1.   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the building permit
or approval for which application is made;
      2.   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal
description, street address or similar description that will readily identify
and definitively locate the proposed work and identify lots of any platted
subdivision included within the proposed building site;
      3.   Indicate the purpose, use or occupancy for which the proposed work
is intended;
      4.   For other than exploratory purposes, plans, diagrams, computations,
specifications and other data may be required by the building official;
      5.   Show the location of property lines and all existing and proposed
streets, roadways, utility rights of way, driveways, easements and other rights
of ways on, contiguous, or adjacent to the proposed development site;
      6.   Present a plan showing erosion control measures to prevent erosion
during the course of construction;
      7.   Show a revegetation plan addressing the revegetation requirements;
      8.   Provide a statement of the estimated starting and completion dates
for the grading work proposed and any revegetation work that may be required;
      9.   Where applicable, submit a copy of the recorded subdivision plat
showing developable area limitations;
      10.   Provide a brief description of the intended project if grading
activity is exploratory in nature;
      11.   Provide details showing access to the proposed area of excavation,
grading or cut and fill, and identify erosion control, revegetation and
stabilization methods to be used if proposed excavation, grading and cut and
fill is not accessible by existing roadway.
   B.   Grading Plan: A grading plan is required that shall show the existing
grade and finished grade in contour intervals of sufficient clarity to indicate
the nature and extent of the work and show in detail that it complies with the
requirement of this code.
   C.   Soil Suitability, Geology Report: If excavation, grading or cut and
fill operations are conducted for more than exploratory purposes, the building
official may require a soil suitability report and/or a geology report.
   D.   Referral To Other Agencies: The building official may refer the
application and site plans to those government agencies and/or affected
entities necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public, and
to ensure the project's compliance with applicable ordinances and codes. The
building official may condition the final approval of said application on any
specific recommendations or requirements from those governmental agencies and
affected entities. (Ord. 2009-O-2, 6-18-2009)
9-4-5: FEES REQUIRED:
   A.   The excavation, grading or cut and fill permit shall be in such amount
as established by resolution of the town council. (Ord. 2009-O-2, 6-18-2009;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Fees for emergency work that requires excavation, grading or cut and
fill operations for maintaining pipes, lines or facilities for emergency
purposes may be waived by the building official.
   C.   Fees may be changed at any time by resolution of the town council.
(Ord. 2009-O-2, 6-18-2009)
9-4-6: EROSION CONTROL, REVEGETATION AND DRAINAGE:
   A.   Erosion Control: Erosion control shall utilize best practice methods to
contain all erosion on site. The faces of cut and fill slopes shall be prepared
and maintained to control erosion. Where necessary, check dams, cribbing,
riprap or other devices or methods shall be employed to control erosion and
provide safety.
   B.   Revegetation: To restore the vegetation on the faces of cut and fill
slopes, all applicants must follow the requirements set forth in the town
ordinance pertaining to the preservation of vegetation, as provided in chapter
3 of this title.
   C.   Drainage Plan: The applicant shall provide a detailed drainage plan
based on the 100-year storm event. The drainage plan shall demonstrate
protection of the said property and downstream properties from flooding,
erosion and other adverse impacts. (Ord. 2009-O-2, 6-18-2009)
9-4-7: INSPECTIONS REQUIRED:
   A.   Performed; Filing: All inspections shall be performed by the building
official or his/her representative and, upon completion, filed with the town.
   B.   Required Inspections: Inspections shall be required:
      1.   Before commencement of excavation, grading or cut and fill
operations and placement of erosion control measures and after required
construction stakes have been set; and
      2.   When all rough grading has been completed; and
      3.   When all work, including installation of all drainage and other
structures and required revegetation has been completed. (Ord. 2009-O-2, 6-18-
2009)
9-4-8: PENALTY:
A violation of any section of this of this chapter shall be a class C
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2009-O-2, 6-18-2009; amd. 2010 Code)
TITLE 10
LAND USE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Interpretation
10-1-4: Conflict
10-1-5: Effect On Previous Ordinances And Maps
10-1-6: Definitions
10-1-7: Building Permit Required
10-1-8: Amendments
10-1-9: Hearing And Publication Of Notice Before Amendment
10-1-10: Licensing
10-1-11: Penalty
10-1-12: Time Computation
10-1-13: Severability
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the UNIFORM ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF ALTA,
UTAH, and may be so cited and pleaded. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of preserving, protecting
and promoting the public health, safety, order, morals and the general welfare
of the town and specifically, to preserve and maintain Alta as a vibrant,
viable, protective and orderly recreation area, to perpetuate its inherent
geologic and geographic features, to preserve the essential watershed of Little
Cottonwood Canyon for all the residents of the Salt Lake Valley, and to
otherwise retain and replenish the remarkable and natural beauty, peace, and
tranquility of the town. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements
contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for the purposes
set forth. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-1-4: CONFLICT:
This title shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of covenants,
agreements, other ordinances or laws, but shall prevail notwithstanding such
provisions which are less restrictive. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-1-5: EFFECT ON PREVIOUS ORDINANCES AND MAPS:
The existing ordinances of the town covering the zoning of areas and districts
in the town, in their entirety and including the maps heretofore adopted and
made a part of said ordinances, are hereby superseded and amended to read as
set forth herein; provided, however, that this title, including the maps on
file with the planning commission and town clerk, and by this reference made a
part hereof, shall be deemed a continuation of previous ordinances, and not a
new enactment, insofar as the substance of revisions of previous ordinances is
included in this title, whether in the same or different language; and this
title shall be so interpreted upon all questions of construction, including,
but not limited to, questions of construction, relating to tenure of officers
and boards established by previous ordinances, and to questions of conforming
or nonconforming uses, complying or noncomplying buildings or structures, and
to questions as to the dates upon which such uses, buildings become conforming
or nonconforming or structures complying or noncomplying. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd.
Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are defined as follows:
Words used in the present tense include the future, words in the singular
number include the plural and the plural the singular.
                The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and gardening, but
AGRICULTURE:    not including the keeping or raising of domestic animals or fowl, except
                household pets, and not including any agricultural industry or business, such as
                fruit packing plants, fur farms, animal hospitals or similar uses.
                Any public way or thoroughfare less than sixteen feet (16'), but not less than
ALLEY:          ten feet (10') in width, which has been dedicated or deeded to the public for
                public use.
APARTMENT       Any building or portion thereof which contains three (3) or more dwelling units
HOUSE:          and, for the purpose of this title, includes residential condominiums.
APPEAL          The person, board, commission, agency or other body designated by town ordinance
AUTHORITY:      to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use application or variance.
                Any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a floor level
BASEMENT:       in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a basement
                unless such floor level qualifies as a first "story", as defined in this
                section.
BUILDING:       Any Structure or any part thereof, built or used for the support, shelter, or
                enclosure of any use or occupancy by person, animals, or chattel.
BUILDING,       Any detached building used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or
ACCESSORY:      occupancy subordinate and clearly incidental to that of the main building and
                located on the same lot occupied by the main building.
BUILDING        The vertical distance from the lower of Established Grade or Finished Grade to
HEIGHT:         the highest point of the structure excluding Rooftop Elements.
BUILDING, MAIN: The principal building or one of the principal buildings upon a lot that is used
                primarily for the principal use.
                An owner or a person employed by the owner of a private, residential dwelling to
                reside within the building and to provide primarily maintenance, custodial and
CARETAKER:      security services; or, a property management services company, licensed by the
                Town of Alta, which does not have an employee who resides within the building,
                but which provides maintenance, custodial and security services.
                A living area within a dwelling which is separated physically from the remainder
CARETAKER UNIT: of the dwelling or annexed to the dwelling, the purpose for which is to house an
                on premises "caretaker", as defined in this section. The owner shall certify to
                the town in writing that a caretaker unit shall be occupied only by a caretaker.
                A private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For purposes of this
CARPORT:        title, a carport shall be subject to all of the regulations prescribed for a
                private garage.
                An establishment for the care and/or instruction, whether or not for
CHILD NURSERY:  compensation, of six (6) or more children other than members of the family
                residing on the premises.
CLASS A BEER    A place of business wherein beer is sold in original containers to be consumed
OUTLET:         off the premises in accordance with the alcoholic beverage control act of Utah
                and the licensing ordinance of the town.
CLASS B BEER    A place of business wherein beer is sold in original containers for consumption
OUTLET:         on or off the premises in accordance with the alcoholic beverage control act of
                Utah and the licensing ordinance of the town.
CLASS C BEER    A place of business wherein draft beer or beer in original containers is sold
OUTLET:         for consumption on or off the premises in accordance with the alcoholic beverage
                control act of Utah and the licensing ordinance of the town.
COMMERCIAL      The renting of real property for terms of thirty (30) days or less, or other
RENTAL:         impermanent or transitory lodging use lacking in stability or continuity of
                persons occupying real property.
CONDITIONAL     A use of land for which a conditional use permit is required pursuant to Chapter
USE:            9 of this title.
                A.   A real estate plan or project whereby two (2) or more units, whether
                contained in an existing or proposed building or buildings, are separately
                offered or proposed to be offered for sale. "Condominium project" shall also
                mean the property when the context so requires.
CONDOMINIUM     B.    The owner or developer of any condominium project or "time period unit"
PROJECT:        project, as defined in this section, shall comply with the Utah condominium
                ownership act, Utah Code Annotated title 57, chapter 8, which is hereby
                incorporated within and made a part of this title by reference. Such owner or
                developer shall also comply with all pertinent provisions of all chapters of
                this title.
                A gathering and consisting of multipurpose meeting facilities, typically
CONFERENCE:     consisting of one or more meeting or multipurpose rooms that are available for
                use by various groups for such activities as meetings and receptions.
COURT:          An occupied space on a lot, other than a yard, that is designed to be partially
                or completely surrounded by group dwellings.
DISTRICT:       A portion of the Town of Alta.
DWELLING:       Any building or portion thereof which contains not more than two (2) dwelling
                units.
DWELLING,       A group of two (2) or more dwellings located on a parcel of land in one
GROUP:          ownership and having any yard or court in common.
DWELLING,       A building used or intended to be occupied by more than two (2) "families", as
MULTIPLE-FAMILY defined in this section.
:
DWELLING,       A building used or intended to be occupied by one "family", as defined in this
SINGLE-FAMILY:  section.
DWELLING, TWO-  A building used or intended to be occupied by two (2) "families", as defined in
FAMILY:         this section.
                Any building or portion thereof which contains living facilities, including
                provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, as required by this
DWELLING UNIT:  title, for not more than one family. For purposes of determining maximum density
                of dwelling units for all uses in any FM zone, two (2) guestrooms shall be
                equivalent to one dwelling unit.
EFFICIENCY      A dwelling unit containing only one habitable room.
DWELLING UNIT:
                Chimneys, flues, and similar venting apparatus; communications equipment such as
                antennas and satellite dishes; elevator penthouses; stair enclosures; rooftop
ELEMENTS,       railings; mechanical equipment such as heating, ventilation, and air
ROOFTOP:        conditioning systems; renewable energy production systems such as solar panels
                and wind turbines; other mechanical equipment used for operation of a building;
                flag poles; and wind socks or any such allowed rooftop item which protrudes or
                is located on top of the building.
                Channels which have been created by erosion but which do not normally contain or
EROSION         convey water, except during local rainstorm, snowmelt, or runoff events.
CHANNELS:       Riparian vegetation or habitat, as evidenced by the presence of hydrophilic
                plants or other evidence are not supported by Erosion Channels. For purposes of
                this Title, Erosion Channels are not Waterways.
FAMILY OR       An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage, or a
FAMILIES:       group of not more than five (5) persons (excluding employees) who need not be
                related by blood or marriage living together in a dwelling unit.
                The area included within the surrounding exterior walls of a building or portion
FLOOR AREA:     thereof, exclusive of vent shafts and courts. The floor area of a building, or
                portion thereof, not provided with surrounding exterior walls shall be the
                useable area under the horizontal projection of the roof or floor above.
FOOTPRINT:      All exterior surfaces of an existing structure where actually located.
                All property fronting on one side of the street between intersecting or
                intercepting streets, or between a street and a right of way, waterway, end of
FRONTAGE:       dead end street, or political subdivision boundary, measured along the street
                line. An intersecting or intercepting street shall determine only the boundary
                of the frontage on the side of the street it intercepts.
                An accessory building designed or used for the storage of not more than four (4)
                automobiles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is
                accessory, provided that on the lot occupied by a multiple-family dwelling, the
GARAGE,         private garage may be designed and used for the storage of one and one-half (1-
PRIVATE:        1/2) times as many automobiles as there are dwelling units in the multiple-
                family dwelling. A garage shall be considered part of a dwelling if the garage
                and the dwelling have a roof or wall in common. A private garage may not be used
                for storage of more than one truck for each family dwelling upon the premises,
                and no such truck shall exceed two and one-half (2-1/2) tons capacity.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any garage other than a private garage.
                The grade of the earth, whether natural or previously altered, that exists
                before a site has been prepared or changed for purposes of development or
GRADE,          building. In areas where a building exists on the site, the building official
ESTABLISHED:    shall determine the established grade by extending the elevations of the
                adjacent established grades where buildings do not exist through the area of the
                existing building.
GRADE,          The finished and resulting grade where earth meets the structure at the
FINISHED:       completion of the proposed construction.
GUEST:          Any person hiring or occupying a room for living or sleeping purposes, or any
                person occupying a room or property for periods of thirty (30) days or less.
                A separate dwelling located on a lot with one or more main dwellings and used or
GUESTHOUSE:     intended for the housing of guests or servants and not rented, leased or sold
                separate from the rental, lease or sale of the main dwelling.
                A.   Any room or rooms used or intended to be used by a guest for sleeping
                purposes. Every one hundred (100) square feet of total floor area in a dormitory
GUEST-ROOM:     shall be considered to be a guestroom.
                B.   Within the base facilities zone, "guestroom" shall be defined as every six
                hundred (600) square feet of total floor area within a structure, and the
                remainder thereof.
HABITABLE       Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet
SPACE:          compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility space, and similar areas, are
                not considered "habitable space".
                An area of land or water, or a structural surface, which is used, or intended
HELIPORT:       for use, for the landing and takeoff of helicopters, and any appurtenant areas
                which are used, or intended for use, for heliport buildings and other heliport
                facilities.
HELISTOP:       The same as a "heliport", as defined in this section, except that no refueling,
                maintenance, repairs or storage of helicopters is permitted.
                Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on by one person
                residing in the dwelling, which use is clearly incidental and secondary to the
                use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change the character of
                the dwelling or property for residential purposes and in connection with which
                there is no display nor stock in trade. The home occupation shall not include
HOME            the sale of commodities, except those which are produced on the premises and
OCCUPATION:     shall not involve the use of any accessory building or yard space for activity
                outside the main building not normally associated with residential use. Parking
                for home occupations shall be as follows: 1) one car for each twenty five feet
                (25') of unobstructed and unrestricted frontage of the subject property; and 2)
                available parking on the subject property where automobiles are customarily
                parked. "Home occupation" shall include the care of not more than six (6)
                children other than members of the family residing in the dwelling.
                Any building containing guestrooms intended or designed to be used, or which are
                used, rented or hired out to be occupied on a nightly basis, or which are
                occupied for sleeping purposes by guests, and which may include accessory
HOTEL:          facilities such as a lobby, meeting rooms, recreation facilities, group dining
                facilities and other facilities customarily associated with hotels. A "hotel"
                shall not include any building used for residential purposes, including, but not
                limited to, condominiums and single-family residences.
                Animals and/or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house and kept for company or
                pleasure, such as dogs, cats and canaries, including not more than two (2) dogs
HOUSEHOLD PETS: 1  or two (2) cats over four (4) months in age, and not more than a total of
                four (4) animals. A "household pet" does not include inherently or potentially
                dangerous animals, fowl or reptiles.
                The use of any lot or portion of a lot or tract of land for the storage, keeping
                or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or other scrap material, or for
JUNKYARD:       the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles, or
                machinery or parts thereof; provided, that this definition shall be deemed not
                to include such uses which are clearly accessory and incidental to any
                agricultural uses permitted in the zone.
KENNEL:         The keeping of three (3) or more dogs at least four (4) months old.
LAND USE        All applications requiring approval from the land use authority pursuant to Utah
APPLICATION:    Code Annotated or Town of Alta ordinances.
LAND USE        A person, board, commission, agency or other body designated by the town council
AUTHORITY:      to act upon a land use application.
LAND USE        A planning, zoning, development, or subdivision ordinance of the Town of Alta
ORDINANCE:      made by legislative decision.
LODGING HOUSE:  Any building or portion thereof containing not more than five (5) guestrooms
                where rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise.
                A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a building or group of buildings,
                together with such yards, open spaces, lot width and lot areas as are required
LOT:            by this title, having frontage upon a street or upon a right of way approved by
                the appeal authority, or upon a right of way not less than sixteen feet (16')
                wide. Except for group dwellings and guesthouses, not more than one dwelling may
                occupy one lot.
                A lot abutting on two (2) intersecting or intercepting streets where the
LOT, CORNER:    interior angle of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred
                thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT, INTERIOR:  A lot other than a corner lot.
                Shall include:
                A. One nameplate for each dwelling unit, not exceeding two (2) square feet in
                area, indicating the name of the occupant or permitted home occupation.
                B. One sign board not exceeding eight (8) square feet in area appertaining to
                the lease or sale of the property, or the sale of products produced on the
                property, or warning against trespassing.
NAMEPLATES AND/ C. One bulletin board not exceeding eight (8) square feet in area for a church
OR SIGNS:       or other institution for the purpose of displaying the name and character of
                services or other activities conducted therein.
                D. One identification sign not exceeding eight (8) square feet in area for
                buildings other than dwellings.
                E. All such bulletin boards and identification signs shall be attached to and
                parallel with the front wall of the building. If any nameplate, bulletin board
                or sign is illuminated, only indirect lighting shall be used. No flashing or
                intermittent illumination shall be employed.
                The area of ground within a lot that satisfies all of the following conditions:
                A. Slope less than thirty percent (30%); and
                B. Soils of a suitable depth and type based on soil exploration and percolation
                tests in accordance with the regulations of the Utah department of health to
                ensure against detriment to surface and groundwater quality; and,
                C. Not closer than fifty feet (50') from the high water line of any Waterway and
                outside of the Top of Bank as determined by the building official; and,
                D. Notwithstanding subsection (C) above in the Upper Albion Basin Protection
NET DEVELOPABLE Overlay Zone, not closer than one hundred feet (100') from the high water line
ACREAGE:        of any Waterway and at least twenty feet (20') from the Top of Bank as
                determined by the building official; and,
                E. Free from unreasonable risk of harm to the property and the general public
                from natural hazards such as flood, landslide, avalanche, a high water table, or
                inordinate soil erosion after full compliance with applicable provisions of the
                building code governing topographic, structural and general design standards
                necessary to meet the maximum foreseeable risk of such hazards, and in discharge
                of the obligation imposed upon any person so developing and/or improving
                property subject to such natural hazards imposed by subsection
                10-6A-9 of this title.
                A Structure, or portion thereof, that (1) legally existed prior to the current
NONCOMPLYING    land use designation; and (2) because of subsequent land use ordinance
STRUCTURE:      amendments, does not conform to the regulations that currently govern the
                structure.
                A use of land that (1) legally existed prior to the current land use
NONCONFORMING   designation; (2) has been maintained continuously since the time the land use
USE:            ordinance governing the land was amended; and (3) because of subsequent land use
                ordinance amendments, does not conform to the regulations that now govern the
                use of the land.
PACKAGE AGENCY: Any outlet authorized by the Utah alcoholic beverage control commission to sell
                original package liquor or wine for consumption off the premises.
PARKING LOT:    An open area, other than a street, used for parking of more than four (4)
                automobiles or other vehicles.
PARKING SPACE:  An area within a building, lot or parking lot for parking or storage of one
                automobile or other vehicle.
PERMITTED USE:  A use of land for which no conditional use permit is required.
PLANNED UNIT    A complete development plan for an area pursuant to Chapter 10 of this title.
DEVELOPMENT:
PLANNING        The Town of Alta planning commission.
COMMISSION:
PRIVATE         A social club, recreational, athletic or similar association, incorporated under
NONPROFIT       the provisions of the Utah nonprofit corporation and cooperation act, which
LOCKER CLUB:    maintains or intends to maintain premises upon which liquor is or will be
                stored, consumed or sold.
PRIVATE
NONPROFIT       Nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities operated by an association
RECREATIONAL    incorporated under the provisions of the Utah nonprofit corporation and
GROUNDS AND     cooperation act, or a corporate sole.
FACILITIES:
                A use operated exclusively by a public or quasi-public body, such use having the
PUBLIC USE:     purpose of serving the public health, safety or general welfare, and including
                uses such as public schools, parks, playgrounds and other recreational
                facilities, administrative and service facilities, and public utilities.
                A use operated by a private nonprofit, educational, religious, recreational,
QUASI-PUBLIC    charitable or philanthropic institution, such use having the purpose primarily
USE:            of serving the general public, such as churches, private schools, universities
                and similar uses.
RECREATION,     The use of property for recreational facilities operated as a business and open
COMMERCIAL:     to the general public for a fee, such as ski lifts, golf driving ranges and
                baseball batting ranges.
REPAIR:         The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building for the
                purpose of its maintenance.
RESTAURANT:     A place where meals or refreshments are sold to the public or guests for
                compensation.
STATE STORE:    An outlet for the sale of liquor located on premises owned and leased by the
                state of Utah.
                That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any floor and
                the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost story shall
                be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the topmost
                floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level directly above
STORY:          a useable or unused under-floor space is more than six feet (6') above the
                Finished Grade, as defined in this section, for more than fifty percent (50%) of
                the total perimeter, or is more than twelve feet (12') above the Finished Grade,
                as defined in this section, at any point, such useable or unused under-floor
                space shall be considered as a story.
STREET:         Any thoroughfare or public way not less than sixteen feet (16') in width which
                has been dedicated or deeded to the public for public use.
STRUCTURAL      Any change in the supporting structural components of a structure, such as
ALTERATION:     columns, bearing walls, beams, joists or trusses.
                Anything that is constructed, the Use of which requires a fixed location on or
STRUCTURE OR    in the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground
STRUCTURES:     and which imposes an impervious material on or above the ground. All Buildings
                are Structures.
                An annually recurring part or parts of a calendar year specified in the
TIME PERIOD     condominium declaration or other document as a period for which a physical unit
UNIT:           is separately owned. Separate ownership is represented as shares in a
                corporation, a partnership interest, or any other individually owned
                transferrable property right or interest.
TIME PERIOD     A real estate project devoted in whole or in part to "time period units", as
UNIT PROJECT:   defined in this section.
                That vertical point along a Waterway where an abrupt change in slope is evident
TOP OF BANK:    or the point where the stream or creek would enter the floodplain as determined
                by the building official.
                The amount of square footage contained within all buildings and structures on
                the building site, measured by the inside surfaces of the exterior wall,
TOTAL FLOOR     excluding any floor area designed as employee living accommodations and common
AREA:           areas, including, but not limited to, any lobby, elevator bank and elevator,
                restaurant, restaurant kitchen, common stairwells and hallways, management
                offices, covered decks and service, maintenance and mechanical spaces.
TOWN            The staff employed by the Town of Alta acting as the town clerk, the town
ADMINISTRATION: manager, the assistant town manager and the deputy town clerk.
TOWN COUNCIL:   The Town of Alta town council.
USE:            The purpose or purposes for which land or structures are occupied, maintained,
                arranged, designed, or intended.
USE, ACCESSORY: Any subordinate use customarily incidental to and located upon the same lot
                occupied by the principal use.
                The degree to which land or structures are used as measured by factors including
USE, INTENSITY  but not limited to purpose of occupancy, building footprint, square footage, the
OF:             need for parking, and the number of bedrooms, bathrooms, kitchens, hot tubs, or
                plumbing fixtures.
USE, PRINCIPAL,
OR MAIN OR      The main or primary use of land or structures as opposed to an accessory use.
PRIMARY:
UTAH CODE       The Utah law as codified and periodically amended and supplemented in the Utah
ANNOTATED:      Code Annotated, and as interpreted by Utah courts.
                Those areas varying in width including, but not limited to, streams, creeks,
WATERWAY OR     gullies, washes, rivulets, or culverts, whether constructed, altered, or
WATERWAYS:      naturally occurring, which normally contain or convey water during at least part
                of the year, and which are considered drainage channels and not merely Erosion
                Channels , as determined by the building official.
WIDTH OF LOT:   The distance between the side lot lines at the distance back from the front lot
                line required for the depth of the front yard.
YARD:           A space on the lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
                ground upward, by buildings, except as otherwise provided herein.
                A space on the same lot with the building between the front line of the building
YARD, FRONT:    and the front lot line, and extending across the full width of the lot. The
                "depth" of the front yard is the minimum distance between the front lot line and
                the front of the building.
                A space on the same lot with the building between the rear line of the building
YARD, REAR:     and the rear lot line, and extending across the full width of the lot. The
                "depth" of the rear yard is the minimum distance between the rear lot line and
                the rear of the building.
                A space on the same lot with the building between the side line of the building
                and the nearest side lot line, and extending from the front lot line to the rear
                lot line. The "width" of the side yard is the minimum distance between the side
YARD, SIDE:     lot line and the nearest side of the building. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 90-O-
                4, 4-12-1990; Ord. 1997-O-7, 11-13-1997, eff. 11-27-1997; Ord. 1998-O-3, 3-12-
                1998; Ord. 2008-O-5, 6-12-2008; 2010 Code; Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021; Ord. 2023-
                O-2, 4-12-2023)
 
 
Notes
1 1 See definition of Kennel is this section
10-1-7: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Construction, alteration, repair or removal of any building or
structure, or any part thereof, as provided or as restricted by this title,
shall not be commenced, or proceeded with, except after the issuance of a
written permit for the same by the building official. The use of the land shall
not be commenced or proceeded with except after issuance of a written permit
for the same by the building official.
   B.   However, Structures on U.S. Forest Service property which are not
Buildings and are for Commercial Recreation ski area operation or campground
operations, such as lift towers, signs, avalanche control devices, snowmaking
equipment, picnic tables and fire pits, do not require a building permit so
long as and only if, such Structures comply with requirements of the regulatory
bodies having jurisdiction, including U.S. Forest Service, U.S. Army Corp
Engineers, State Engineer's Office, Utah Division of Water Rights Salt Lake
Valley Health Department and the Salt Lake City Division of Public Utilities
and such approval, if required by the regulatory bodies having jurisdiction,
shall be submitted to the Building Official prior to the Structure being put in
place. Written notification of the installation or construction of any
Structure, whether or not an approval from the regulatory bodies is required,
must be given to the Town Administration prior to the Structure being put in
place or any site preparation for the structure. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord.
2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-1-8: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authorized; Submit To Planning Commission: The town council may, from
time to time, amend the number, shape, boundaries or area of any zone, or any
regulation of or within any district or districts or zones or any other
provisions of this title. Any such amendment shall not be made or become
effective unless the same shall have been proposed by or be first submitted for
the approval, disapproval or suggestions of the planning commission.
   B.   Appeal Of Denial: Zoning amendment applications denied by the planning
commission may be appealed to the town council. Any such appeals must be made
within ten (10) calendar days of the date of the planning commission decision.
Should the town council find merit in the appeal, the application shall be
remanded to the planning commission with the council's recommendations and the
matter shall be reconsidered by the planning commission at its next regularly
scheduled meeting.
   C.   Denial To Reclassify: Denial of an application to amend the zoning map
to reclassify any parcel or property shall prohibit the filing of another
application to amend the zoning map to reclassify the same parcel of property,
or any portion thereof, to the same zone classification within one year from
the date of the final denial of the previous application, unless the planning
commission finds that there has been a substantial change in the circumstances
or sufficient new evidence since the denial of the previous application to
merit consideration of a second application within the one year time period.
(Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-1-9: HEARING AND PUBLICATION OF NOTICE BEFORE AMENDMENT:
Before finally adopting any such amendment, the town council shall hold a
public hearing thereon, at least fifteen (15) days' notice of the time and
place of which shall be given by at least one publication in a newspaper of
general circulation within the town. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-1-10: LICENSING:
All departments, officials and public employees of the town, which are vested
with the duty and authority to issue permits or licenses, shall conform to the
provisions of this title and shall issue no permit or license for a use,
building or purpose where the same would be in conflict with the provisions of
this title, and any such permit or license, if issued in conflict with the
provisions of this title, shall be null and void. Issuance of a permit or
license in conflict with the provisions of this title shall not estop the town
from enforcing the provisions of this title. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-1-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation, whether as principal, agent, employee or
otherwise, violating or causing or permitting the violation of the provisions
of this title shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Such person, firm or corporation who intentionally violates
this title shall be deemed to be guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day during which any violation of this title is committed, continued or
permitted by such person, firm or corporation and shall be punished as herein
stated; provided, however, that when any structure or use is in continuous
violation of this title for a period exceeding five (5) years, and upon proper
affidavits being submitted to the appeal authority to the effect that no action
has been instigated or complaint received during said period with respect to
the violation, and when said board finds that in the interest of justice and
the general public good and welfare, such structure or use should be allowed to
continue, then and in that event, said board may declare such structure or use
nonconforming or complying. However, the period of limitation of five (5) years
prescribed herein shall not commence to run until the effective date of this
title and in no way shall be interpreted to permit the continuation of any
violation which exists on the effective date hereof. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010
Code; Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-1-12: TIME COMPUTATION:
In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this title, the day of
the act, event or decision after which the designated period of time begins to
run is not to be included. The last day of the period so computed is to be
included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in which event the
period runs until the end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday
or a holiday. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven
(7) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be excluded in the
computation. A half-holiday shall be considered as other days and not as a
holiday. The date of a decision or recommendation of the planning commission
shall be the date of the hearing at which such decision or recommendation is
made. If no hearing is held on the matter, the date of the decision or
recommendation shall be the date written notice of such decision or
recommendation is mailed to the applicant. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1,
3-10-2021)
10-1-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this title shall be deemed to be unenforceable for any reason
whatsoever, the remaining portions shall nevertheless be in full force and
effect. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Building Official To Enforce
10-2-2: Powers And Duties Of Building Official
10-2-3: Permits To Comply With Title
10-2-4: Required Documents
10-2-1: BUILDING OFFICIAL TO ENFORCE:
The building official is designated as the officer charged with the enforcement
of this title. The building official shall be the individual appointed by the
Mayor, and the Mayor shall have the power to appoint and discharge the building
official. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-2-2: POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The building official is hereby authorized to inspect or cause to be inspected
all buildings and structures in the course of construction, modification or
repair, and to inspect building and land uses to determine compliance with the
provisions of this title. The building official shall enforce all the
provisions of this title, employing all legal means available to do so. In
enforcement of this title, the building official or his authorized
representative shall have the right to enter any building for the purpose of
determining the use thereof or to enter the premises for the purpose of
determining compliance with the provisions of this title; provided, that such
right of entry shall be exercised only at reasonable hours and that in no case
shall entry be made to any occupied building in the absence of the owner or
tenant thereof without the written order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-2-3: PERMITS TO COMPLY WITH TITLE:
After the effective date hereof, no building permit may be issued without first
having been approved by the building official. The building official shall not
approve or issue a building permit if any building, structure or use of land
would be in violation of any of the provisions of this title, nor shall any
other town officer or employee grant a permit or license for the use of any
building or land if such use would be in violation of this title. (Ord., 6-8-
1989)
10-2-4: REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:
As a part of the application for a building permit, three (3) sets of complete
construction documents of the proposed project shall be submitted. The
documents shall be of a detail and scale appropriate to completely describe the
proposed construction activities, as well as the intended use of the project.
If, in the opinion of the building official, the documents submitted are not of
sufficient size, scale, detail or nature, additional documents may be required
as determined by the building official. For all projects involving structural
work, all structural calculations, design and documents shall be prepared by a
licensed Utah structural engineer or architect and bear his stamp and signature
on each page of all documents submitted. In addition, the applicant shall
submit those letters of approval from various agencies as required by other
chapters of this title. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
CHAPTER 3
LAND USE AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-3-1: Designated; Authority
10-3-2: Process For Land Use Applications
10-3-3: Meetings; Minutes
10-3-4: Quorum Requirement
10-3-5: Voting
10-3-6: Decisions
10-3-7: No Participation By Member Of Appeal Authority
10-3-1: DESIGNATED; AUTHORITY:
The planning commission shall serve as the town "land use authority", as
defined in section
10-1-6 of this title, and pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a et
seq., as amended and supplemented from time to time, for all land use
applications for all land within the town boundaries. The land use authority
shall hear, review and act on all such land use applications, and shall be the
final decision maker on such land use applications. (Ord. 2008-O-3, 6-12-2008)
10-3-2: PROCESS FOR LAND USE APPLICATIONS:
The land use authority shall substantively review a complete land use
application and shall approve, deny or condition each application with
reasonable diligence.
   A.   Notice Requirements: For each land use application, the town shall
notify the applicant of the time and place of each public meeting and public
hearing, if any, to consider the application, and the town shall provide each
applicant with a copy of each staff report regarding the application at least
three (3) business days before any such public meeting and public hearing.
   B.   Public Meeting, Hearing: The land use authority shall hold a public
meeting to review the land use application and, if required by Utah Code
Annotated, shall hold a public hearing to review such land use application in a
following land use authority meeting. In preparation for and during any public
meeting and public hearing, the land use authority may request further
information and may seek the advice or technical expertise of experts to assist
in its decision.
   C.   Exception For Approval:
      1.   An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application as
required by Utah Code Annotated; except, if before the application was
submitted, the town formally initiated proceedings to amend its ordinances in a
manner that would prohibit approval of the application as submitted.
      2.   In such event, the town may hold the application for processing
until after one hundred eighty (180) days have passed since the proceedings
were initiated; and shall process the application if the proceedings had not
resulted in an enactment that prohibits approval of the application as
submitted. (Ord. 2008-O-3, 6-12-2008)
10-3-3: MEETINGS; MINUTES:
The land use authority shall keep official minutes of its meetings, in
accordance with Utah Code Annotated, and such minutes shall be stored with the
town clerk. All meetings shall comply with Utah Code Annotated title 52,
chapter 4 (open and public meetings), as amended. (Ord. 2008-O-3, 6-12-2008)
10-3-4: QUORUM REQUIREMENT:
The land use authority shall not conduct any business at a meeting unless a
quorum is present. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the appointed
members of the land use authority. (Ord. 2008-O-3, 6-12-2008)
10-3-5: VOTING:
Actions of the land use authority pass by majority vote. A majority is a simple
majority of those members present at the meeting and entitled to vote on the
matter under consideration. In the event of a tie, the action does not pass and
is not approved. (Ord. 2008-O-3, 6-12-2008)
10-3-6: DECISIONS:
All decisions of the land use authority shall be included in the minutes. Where
written findings are required, the findings shall be included and incorporated
into the minutes. The land use authority decision on any matter is final when
the decision is approved by a majority vote of land use authority members. The
decision shall be effective immediately upon adoption. (Ord. 2008-O-3, 6-12-
2008)
10-3-7: NO PARTICIPATION BY MEMBER OF APPEAL AUTHORITY:
No member of the appeal authority shall participate or comment at any land use
authority proceedings. (Ord. 2008-O-3, 6-12-2008)
CHAPTER 4
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purpose
10-4-2: Created; Membership; Appointment
10-4-3: Terms, Eligibility Of Members
10-4-4: Mayor As Ex Officio Member
10-4-5: Chairperson
10-4-6: Authority Of Planning Commission
10-4-7: Staff And Technical Assistance
10-4-8: Recommendation Process
10-4-9: Meetings; Minutes
10-4-10: Quorum Requirement
10-4-11: Voting
10-4-12: Decisions
10-4-13: Grounds For Removal
10-4-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The planning commission shall serve as a nonpolitical, long range
planning body for the town. The planning commission shall make recommendations
to the town council for the general plan and amendments to the general plan,
and land use ordinances, zoning maps, official maps and amendments thereto.
   B.   The planning commission shall serve as any other body within the town
based on such other powers as the town council confers upon the planning
commission. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 6-12-2008)
10-4-2: CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT:
   A.   Specified: There is hereby created a planning commission, to consist of
five (5) members. Members shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and
consent of the town council. Alternate members may also be appointed, which the
mayor may appoint with the advice and consent of the town council.
   The mayor shall, with the advice and consent of the town council, appoint a
new planning commission member, or reappoint an incumbent Member, to fill a
position on the planning commission that has expired. The Mayor shall appoint a
new Planning Commission member, with the advice and consent of the town
council, to fill vacancies that might arise and such appointments shall be to
the end of the vacating member's term.
   B.   Community Representation: To the extent possible, appointments to the
planning commission shall be made on a basis which represents the interests of
residents of the town, and, in the event that they are available, should
include at least one member representing the business community, one member
representing the environmental community, one member representing the
architecture/building community, one member representing the planning
community, and one member who is an at large representative. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 6-
12-2008; amd. Ord. 2014-O-4, 12-11-2014; Ord. 2022-O-7, 12-14-2022)
10-4-3: TERMS, ELIGIBILITY OF MEMBERS:
Terms: Members of the planning commission shall serve terms of five (5) years.
There is no limitation on the length of time a member may to serve if they are
reappointed. Terms shall be staggered with one seat expiring each year and
shall expire on March 1 of the respective year. Members shall continue to serve
until their successors are appointed.
In the event that the expiration of planning commissioners' terms are not
staggered, the mayor may appoint members for a term shorter than five (5) years
to ensure the staggered expiration of terms. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 6-12-2008; amd.
Ord. 2022-O-7, 12-14-2022)
10-4-4: MAYOR AS EX OFFICIO MEMBER:
So long as the planning commission is acting as the long range planning body
for the town and is not acting as the land use authority for the town, the
mayor shall be an ex officio member of the planning commission, and may
participate in and comment at planning commission meetings. The mayor shall not
vote on any matter before the planning commission. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 6-12-2008)
10-4-5: CHAIRPERSON:
The planning commission shall, during or before the first meeting of the year,
elect a chairperson who shall serve a term of five (5) years and may be
reelected for one succeeding consecutive term of five (5) years. A member may
not serve more than two (2) consecutive terms as chairperson of the planning
commission. The chairperson may participate in discussions and may vote on all
issues. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 6-12-2008)
10-4-6: AUTHORITY OF PLANNING COMMISSION:
The planning commission shall have all authority conferred on the planning
commission pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-302, as amended and
supplemented from time to time, and such other powers as are conferred on it by
the town council. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 6-12-2008)
10-4-7: STAFF AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
The town administration shall assist and coordinate with the planning
commission with technical matters. In order to further assist the planning
commission in carrying out its duties, the planning commission may request the
assistance of technical experts and/or employees and agents of the town,
including, but not limited to, engineering, public works, applicable utility
agencies, school district, unified fire authority officials, town marshal,
building official, state department of transportation, town legal counsel, and
"affected entities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-103(1), as
amended and supplemented from time to time. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 6-12-2008; amd.
Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
10-4-8: RECOMMENDATION PROCESS:
   A.   Public Hearing: After completing its recommendation for a proposed
general plan, a proposed land use ordinance or related maps, or amendment to
the same, the planning commission shall schedule and hold at least one public
hearing on such matters. The planning commission may hold more than one public
hearing on such matters, in its discretion or as otherwise required by Utah
Code Annotated.
   B.   Notice Of Public Hearing: The planning commission shall provide notice
of the public hearing as required by Utah Code Annotated.
   C.   Authority: After the public hearing, the planning commission may modify
the proposed general plan, land use ordinance and related maps, and the
amendment to the same.
   D.   Recommendations To Town Council: The planning commission shall forward
its recommendations for the respective proposed general plan, land use
ordinance and related maps, and amendment to the same, to the town council,
which shall make the final decision regarding the adoption or enactment of the
general plan, land use ordinance and related maps, and amendments to the same.
(Ord. 2008-O-2, 6-12-2008)
10-4-9: MEETINGS; MINUTES:
The planning commission shall keep official, written minutes of all its
meetings in compliance with Utah Code Annotated, and such minutes shall be
stored with the town clerk. All meetings shall comply with Utah Code Annotated
title 52, chapter 4 (open and public meetings), as amended. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 6-
12-2008)
10-4-10: QUORUM REQUIREMENT:
The planning commission shall not conduct any business at a meeting unless a
quorum is present. A quorum shall consist of three (3) of the appointed members
of the commission. (Ord. 2014-O-4, 12-11-2014)
10-4-11: VOTING:
Actions of the planning commission pass by a vote in the affirmative of three
(3) members. (Ord. 2014-O-4, 12-11-2014)
10-4-12: DECISIONS:
All decisions and all findings for the decision of the planning commission
shall be included and incorporated in the minutes. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 6-12-2008;
amd. Ord. 2022-O-7, 12-14-2022)
10-4-13: GROUNDS FOR REMOVAL:
Any planning commission member who is absent from three (3) consecutive
regularly scheduled meetings, or a total of five (5) regularly scheduled
meetings per calendar year, or who violates ethical standards under Utah Code
Annotated, or who engages in improper or illegal conduct, may be called before
the town council and asked to resign or be removed for cause by the town
council. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 6-12-2008)
CHAPTER 5
APPEAL AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-5-1: Created
10-5-2: Terms, Eligibility Of Members
10-5-3: Authority
10-5-4: Time To Appeal
10-5-5: Adversely Affected Party's Burden
10-5-6: Form Of Appeals
10-5-7: Notice; Public Meeting
10-5-8: Appeal Process
10-5-9: Quasi-Judicial Role And Standard Of Review
10-5-10: Written Findings Required
10-5-11: Variances
10-5-1: CREATED:
There is hereby created a town appeal authority. The town council will serve as
the appeal authority. (Ord. 2008-O-4, 6-12-2008)
10-5-2: TERMS, ELIGIBILITY OF MEMBERS:
Members of the town council shall serve as members of the appeal authority
during each member's respective town council term. So long as a person remains
a member of the town council, that person will be a member of the appeal
authority. (Ord. 2008-O-4, 6-12-2008)
10-5-3: AUTHORITY:
The appeal authority shall serve as the final arbiter of issues involving the
interpretation or application of land use ordinances. The appeal authority
shall hear requests for variances. The appeal authority may not entertain an
appeal of a matter in which the appeal authority, or any member of the appeal
authority, had first acted as the land use authority. (Ord. 2008-O-4, 6-12-
2008)
10-5-4: TIME TO APPEAL:
The adversely affected party shall have fifteen (15) calendar days to appeal to
the appeal authority a final decision by the land use authority. The appeal
authority shall set a date for the appeal, which shall occur within a
reasonable time period after the adversely affected party files the appeal with
the appeal authority. (Ord. 2008-O-4, 6-12-2008)
10-5-5: ADVERSELY AFFECTED PARTY'S BURDEN:
The adversely affected party shall be required to present to the appeal
authority every theory of relief that it can raise in district court. The
adversely affected party shall allege that there is error in the order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the land use authority in the
administration or interpretation of the land use ordinance. The adversely
affected party has the burden of proving that the land use authority erred.
(Ord. 2008-O-4, 6-12-2008)
10-5-6: FORM OF APPEALS:
   A.   Submission: Appeals to the appeal authority shall be submitted in
person or by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the town
administration, at the town offices. Appeals shall be deemed submitted when
received by a member of the town administration in the town offices.
   B.   Content; Fee: Appeals must be by letter or petition, and must contain
the name, address and telephone number of the appellant, his or her
relationship to the project, or subject property, and must have a comprehensive
statement of all the reasons for the appeal, including specific provisions of
the law, if known, that are alleged to be violated by the action taken. The
appellant shall pay the applicable fee.
   C.   Written Findings, Conclusions: The land use authority shall direct the
town administration to prepare detailed written:
      1.   Findings of fact which explain and support the land use authority
decision; and
      2.   Conclusions as to how a contrary decision would violate provisions
of the town land use ordinance, other town ordinances, or applicable state or
federal laws or regulations. (Ord. 2008-O-4, 6-12-2008)
10-5-7: NOTICE; PUBLIC MEETING:
For each appeal before the appeal authority, the appeal authority shall hold a
public meeting to consider the appeal, which shall be noticed as a public
meeting pursuant to Utah Code Annotated. (Ord. 2008-O-4, 6-12-2008)
10-5-8: APPEAL PROCESS:
   A.   Date Set: The appeal authority shall set a date for the appeal.
   B.   Notice: The town shall notify the appellant, the land use applicant (if
not the appellant), and the land use authority of the appeal date. The town
clerk shall obtain the findings, conclusions and other pertinent information
from the town administration, as required under subsection
10-5-6C of this chapter, and the appellant's appeal, and shall provide a copy
of all documents to each member of the appeal authority at least seven (7)
calendar days before the date of the appeal.
   C.   Use Of Minutes: The appeal authority may review and include in its
decision any minutes from the land use authority in which the application was
discussed or decided upon.
   D.   Decision: The appeal authority may affirm, reverse or affirm in part
and reverse in part, any properly appealed decision of the land use authority.
The appeal authority may remand the matter to the land use authority with
directions for clarification or review. The appeal authority's scope of review
should be limited to consideration of only those matters raised by the
petition, unless the appeal authority, by motion and majority vote, enlarges
the scope of the appeal to accept information on other matters. (Ord. 2008-O-4,
6-12-2008; amd. Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
10-5-9: QUASI-JUDICIAL ROLE AND STANDARD OF REVIEW:
The appeal authority shall act in a quasi-judicial manner. The appeal authority
shall review factual matters de novo and the appeal authority shall determine
the correctness of a decision of the land use authority in its interpretation
and application of a land use ordinance. (Ord. 2008-O-4, 6-12-2008)
10-5-10: WRITTEN FINDINGS REQUIRED:
The decision of the appeal authority is final when the appeal authority adopts
written findings of fact and conclusions of law in the record by a majority
vote of the appeal authority members present at the meeting. (Ord. 2008-O-4, 6-
12-2008)
10-5-11: VARIANCES:
   A.   Application: Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of
the requirements of a land use ordinance as applied to a parcel of property
that he owns, leases, or in which he holds some other beneficial interest, may
apply to the appeal authority for a variance from the terms of the ordinance.
The appeal authority may grant a variance only if the application for the
variance is in compliance with the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section
10-9a-702, as amended and supplemented from time to time.
   B.   Burden Of Proof: The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that
all of the conditions justifying a variance have been met.
   C.   Additional Requirements May Be Imposed: In granting a variance, the
appeal authority may impose additional requirements on the applicant that will:
      1.   Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or
      2.   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or
modified.
   D.   Variances Run With Land: Variances and any requirements imposed by the
appeal authority run with the land.
   E.   Further Appeal: The appeal authority decision to deny a variance, grant
a variance or grant a variance with conditions may be appealed pursuant to Utah
Code Annotated. (Ord. 2008-O-4, 6-12-2008)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Establishment Of Zones
10-6-2: Zoning Map
10-6-3: Zone Boundaries
10-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES:
For the purpose of this title, the town to which this title applies is divided
into eight (8) zones and one (1) overlay zone as follows:
Forestry multi-family zone                 FM-10
Forestry multi-family zone                 FM-20
Base facilities zone                       BF-10
Forestry and recreation zone               FR-0.5
Forestry and recreation zone               FR-1
Forestry and recreation zone               FR-20
Forestry and recreation zone               FR-50
Peruvian estates zone                      PE-0.5
Upper Albion Basin Protection Overlay Zone UABPOZ
 
(Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6-2: ZONING MAP:
Each of the sections of the town which are hereby amended or zoned are shown on
the zoning map on file with the town clerk, and such map is made by this
reference, as such, a part of this title as if fully described and detailed
herein. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-6-3: ZONE BOUNDARIES:
The boundary of any zone shall be construed as the property line or lines of
any perimeter parcel or parcels located therein. Should uncertainty exist as to
the boundary of any zone, the appeal authority shall interpret the map. (Ord.,
6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE A.  FORESTRY AND RECREATION ZONES
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Purpose
10-6A-2: Permitted Uses
10-6A-3: Conditional Uses
10-6A-3-1: Prohibited Uses
10-6A-4: Lot Area, Lot Width And Slope Requirements
10-6A-5: Yard Regulations
10-6A-6: Height Requirements
10-6A-7: Maximum Lot Coverage
10-6A-8: Wastewater System UABPOZ
10-6A-9: Special Regulations
10-6A-10: Construction Documents Approval
10-6A-11: Petitions To Rezone
10-6A-12: Mechanical Screening Of Rooftop Elements
10-6A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the forestry and recreation zones set forth in this article is
to allow for uses of certain areas of the town which will be compatible with
one another and with the natural, scenic beauty of the town and the nearby
mountain vistas. No interest in a residential unit, dwelling or project of any
type whatsoever to be located in a forestry and recreation zone shall be
conveyed or transferred by deed or contract for a specified period of time of
less than thirty (30) days. A major purpose of this zone is to increase the
period of ownership and occupancy of its residents. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010
Code)
10-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
All permitted uses are subject to sections
10-6A-4 through and including
10-6A-9 of this article.
Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a permitted use.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
All conditional uses are subject to sections
10-6A-4 through and including
10-6A-9 of this article, except that the regulations of sections
10-6A-4 through
10-6A-9 of this article may be modified by the town council as they relate to
Public Use and Quasi-Public Uses.
   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a conditional use.
   Commercial and private recreation.
   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises of any Main Use.
   Offices incidental to Main Use.
   Public Uses and Quasi-Public Uses.
   Temporary structures. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 90-O-5, 4-12-1990; Ord.
2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6A-3-1: PROHIBITED USES:
It shall be deemed to be a prohibited commercial use in all FR zones to issue
or rent any dwelling or other structure, or portion thereof, for lodging
purposes for a period of thirty (30) days or less. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-6A-4: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND SLOPE REQUIREMENTS:
 
District Minimum Lot Area (Net Developable Acreage) Lot Width
FR-0.5   1/2 acre                                   100 feet
FR-1     1 acre                                     200 feet
FR-5     5 acres                                    300 feet
FR-20    20 acres                                   300 feet
FR-50    50 acres                                   300 feet
FR-100   100 acres                                  300 feet
 
The term "Net Developable Acreage", as used in this article, shall be deemed to
be defined as set forth in section
10-1-6 of this title. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
In all FR zones, as delineated above, no construction shall be permitted on any
lot or portion thereof where the ground slope exceeds thirty percent (30%).
Where exceptional and extraordinary conditions exist, resort may be made to the
appeal authority. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6A-5: YARD REGULATIONS:
Because of the unique nature of topography and climatic conditions within the
town, the side, rear and front yard requirements will be determined on an
individual basis by the town council, acting upon the recommendation of the
planning commission. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-6A-6: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
No single-family dwelling shall be erected to a height greater than three (3)
stories, nor less than one story, and the maximum height of any single-family
dwelling shall be thirty five feet (35') above the lower of the Established
Grade or Finished Grade. Any single-family dwelling which complied with the
height requirements on March 10, 2021 and no longer complies with this section
is a valid complying structure as to height. (Ord., 6-8-1989; Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-
10-2021)
10-6A-7: MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   The maximum coverage for the aggregate of all buildings, structures,
graded surfaces, paved areas, overhangs, driveways, decks, parking areas and
walkways shall be limited by the following schedule.
 
Zone   Maximum Lot Coverage
FR-0.5 25 percent of the net developable acreage
FR-1   25 percent of the net developable acreage
FR-5   10 percent of the net developable acreage
FR-20  5 percent of the net developable acreage
FR-50  2 percent of the net developable acreage
FR-100 1 percent of the net developable acreage
 
   B.   The following areas shall not be counted as coverage: Areas that may
have been graded but remain vegetated and open to the sky, such as ski trails
or lawn areas;
   C.   The following areas shall be counted as coverage: Green or planted
roofs shall be counted as coverage. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-
2021)
10-6A-8: WASTEWATER SYSTEM UABPOZ:
Prior to submittal for a building permit for any occupied structure in the
UABPOZ applicant shall show and guarantee ability to connect to a public sewer
system. This provision does not apply to dwellings located within the UABPOZ
which legally existed at the time this chapter was passed. (Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-
10-2021)
10-6A-9: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Natural Hazards: Construction of permanent or temporary structures
shall not be permitted, erected, established or performed in such a manner as
to place real and personal property and/or individuals at unreasonable risk of
harm or injury from natural, geographic or topographic hazards, namely: floods,
landslides, avalanches, a high water table, or inordinate soil erosion. In
addition to compliance with the provisions of the building code governing
topographic, structural, construction and design standards necessary to meet
the maximum foreseeable risk of such hazards, persons developing, improving,
managing or owning such property shall have the obligation and bear the burden
of so developing and/or improving the property in such a manner that the
property and/or the general public are safeguarded from unreasonable risk of
harm or injury from such natural hazards to the satisfaction of the planning
commission and the building official.
   B.   Board Of Health Approval: Prior to issuance of a conditional use permit
by the planning commission or the town council, or issuance of a building
permit by the building official, approval of all uses, regardless of size or
number of units, shall be given in writing by the Salt Lake Valley health
department, who shall certify as to the adequacy of the culinary water system
and the sewage system. The approval of all culinary water and sewage facilities
shall be in accordance with the regulations of the Salt Lake Valley health
department and the state division of health.
   C.   Sewage System: Site plan approvals, conditional use permits or building
permits shall not be issued until the complete sewage system design and
specifications have been approved in writing by all appropriate governmental
agencies with jurisdiction.
   D.   Building Materials: Buildings shall be designed to preserve the natural
beauty of the canyon area. Only those building materials which will blend
harmoniously into the natural environment shall be permitted. The use of wood
and stone and other harmonious materials is encouraged.
   E.   Grading: To reduce the possibility of erosion and eliminate unsightly
scars on the mountain slopes, all excavation, grading and cut and fill
operations shall be done under the strict control and approval of the building
official. All areas disturbed by construction activities shall be revegetated
and maintained in accordance with an approved plan. No certificate of occupancy
for any project shall be issued by the building official until all revegetation
is complete.
   F.   Natural Vegetation: All existing and proposed vegetation shall be shown
on the approved site plan, and existing vegetation shall not be removed except
as shown thereon. The design of the project shall be such as to retain as much
of the existing natural vegetation as possible.
   G.   Stream Regulations:
      1.   No dwelling unit, structure, improvement or appurtenance shall be
constructed, raised or established within fifty feet (50') from the high water
line of any Waterway or within the Top of Bank as determined by the building
official.
      2.   Notwithstanding (1) above, in the Upper Albion Basin Protection
Overlay Zone, no dwelling unit, structure, improvement or appurtenance shall be
constructed, raised or established, within one hundred feet (100') from the
high water line of any Waterway or within twenty feet (20') from the Top of
Bank as determined by the building official.
      3.   Notwithstanding (1) and (2) above, On U.S. Forest Service property,
Structures which are not Buildings and are for Commercial Recreation ski area
operation or campground operations, such as lift towers, signs, avalanche
control devices, snowmaking equipment, picnic tables and fire pits, are exempt
from these setbacks so long as and only if, such structures comply with
requirements of the regulatory bodies having jurisdiction, including US Forest
Service , U.S. Army Corp Engineers, State Engineer's Office, Utah Division of
Water Rights, Salt Lake Valley Health Department and the Salt Lake City
Division of Public Utilities and such approval, if required by the regulatory
bodies having jurisdiction, shall be submitted to the Building Official prior
to the Structure being put in place. Written notification of the installation
or construction of any Structure, whether or not an approval from the
regulatory bodies is required, must be given to the Town Administration prior
to the Structure being put in place or any site preparation for the structure.
      4.   The approved site plan shall depict the Waterway and Top of Bank
setbacks and also indicate the extent and specific design of the proposed
method of control of erosion during and after construction activities. The
complete, approved erosion control system shall be installed and approved by
the building official prior to commencement of any construction activities on
any site.
   H.   Rehabilitation Of Existing Landscape Scars: In conjunction with
submission of plans and documents for building permit plan or conditional use
approval, the applicant shall submit for approval a detailed program for
rehabilitation of existing scars on the landscape, if any, caused by unused
roads, mine dumps, excavation, construction or other causes. A bond, in an
amount determined by the building official, covering such rehabilitation
program shall be deposited with the town to ensure that such rehabilitation
will be completed. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the building
official until all approved rehabilitation work is complete.
   I.   Parking Requirements: The planning commission shall determine the
number of parking spaces required; however, the minimum requirements of chapter
12 of this title shall be satisfied. Covered parking is encouraged.
   J.   Utilities: All utilities shall be placed underground. (Ord., 6-8-1989;
amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6A-10: CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS APPROVAL:
In order to determine compliance with this title and to promote orderly and
harmonious development of canyon areas, construction documents for all projects
shall be approved by the building official prior to the issuance of any
building permits. Applications for building permits shall be accompanied by
plans, specifications and other documents with sufficient data and at a
reasonable scale to describe all existing and proposed conditions, including,
but not limited to, topography, grading, roads and walks, buildings, utilities,
vegetation, exterior materials, color schedules, and other such information as
may be required to ensure compliance with the provisions of this title. The
building official may seek the recommendation of the planning commission prior
to approval of any project. Applications may be approved as submitted, approved
subject to conditions, or disapproved. Appeal of any decision of the building
official may be made to the town council by filing a written notice of such
effect with the town clerk within twenty (20) days of the date of the written
notice of such determination. The town council shall thereupon promptly hear
such appeal at the next regular meeting of the town council or at a special
meeting upon call of the mayor, and the matter shall be reviewed de novo.
(Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6A-11: PETITIONS TO REZONE:
   A.   Content Of Petition: Any request to amend an existing zoning ordinance
or to amend and change the zoning of any particular property within the town
shall be submitted to the town clerk in the form of a written and verified
petition. Said petition shall include the following elements:
      1.   The full name and address of the petitioner.
      2.   A statement of all legal, contractual and equitable interest in the
property as to which zoning amendment or change is sought, including the names
and addresses of all such individuals.
      3.   A legal description by metes and bounds, or otherwise, of the
property as to which zoning amendment or change is sought.
      4.   A statement as to the reasons and basis for the amendment or change
to any zoning ordinance or land use classification.
      5.   If real property is to be developed pursuant to the proposed amended
and/or changed zoning ordinance, a statement in detail of the plans and
documents relating to such development, including those elements as required in
sections
10-6A-3 through and including
10-6A-9 of this article. The petitioner shall attach two (2) copies of plans,
specifications and other documents as may be necessary to fully describe in
detail the nature, character and extent of the proposed development as to which
the petition relates.
      6.   A statement as to the availability of all utility services. (Ord.,
6-8-1989)
   B.   Fees: At the time the petition is filed, the applicant shall also pay
to the town clerk all required fees as set by resolution of the town council.
(Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Planning Commission Review: Upon receipt of any petition filed under
this section and payment of all appropriate fees by petitioner, the town clerk
shall forward forthwith such petition and all attachments to the chairperson of
the planning commission for review, analysis and action by that commission
pursuant to law at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the commission.
(Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6A-12: MECHANICAL SCREENING OF ROOFTOP ELEMENTS:
   A.   Rooftop Elements shall be set back at least five feet (5) from the
edges of a structure.
   B.   All rooftop elements, except for flagpoles and windsocks, must be
architecturally screened to:
      1.   Not detract from the natural environment of the canyon;
      2.   Not adversely affect the viewshed of neighbors or canyon visitors;
and
      3.   Be harmonious with the base structure. (Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
ARTICLE B.  PERUVIAN ESTATES ZONE 1
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Introduction
10-6B-2: Purpose
10-6B-3: Permitted Uses
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 3-1-5B of this code regarding dwellings as businesses
  in Peruvian estates zoning district.
10-6B-1: INTRODUCTION:
The Peruvian estates zone applies to those certain lots described by metes and
bounds and shown on the zoning map as PE-0.5. The provisions of chapter 6,
article A of this chapter, pertaining to zone FR-0.5 shall apply, except as
modified herein. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-6B-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to define additional permitted uses to those
described in section
10-6A-2 of this chapter. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-6B-3: PERMITTED USES:
All permitted uses allowed under section
10-6A-2 of this chapter shall be allowed in this zone. In addition, the
following uses are allowed:
Caretaker use, within the defined terms "caretaker" and "caretaker unit", set
forth in section
10-1-6 of this title.
Rental of a "single-family dwelling", as defined in section
10-1-6 of this title, to a single "family", as defined in section
10-1-6 of this title, for periods of less than thirty (30) days and subject to
the following conditions:
A. No food service, or catering of food or beer, or liquor service may be
provided.
B. No maid, housekeeping or similar services may be provided.
C. No rental to groups other than a single "family", as defined in section
10-1-6 of this title, at any given time is allowed.
D. No rental of a "caretaker unit", as defined in section
10-1-6 of this title, for purposes other than to house a "caretaker", as
defined in section
10-1-6 of this title, is allowed. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
ARTICLE C.  FORESTRY MULTI-FAMILY ZONES
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Purpose
10-6C-2: Permitted Uses
10-6C-3: Conditional Uses
10-6C-4: Lot Area, Lot Width And Slope Requirements
10-6C-5: Yard Regulations
10-6C-6: Height Requirements
10-6C-7: Density Regulations
10-6C-8: Maximum Lot Coverage
10-6C-9: Special Regulations
10-6C-10: Construction Documents Approval
10-6C-11: Petitions To Rezone
10-6C-12: Mechanical Screening Of Rooftop Elements
10-6C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the FM-10 and FM-20 forestry multi-family zones is to allow high
density residential, limited commercial, resort dwellings occupied or owned for
periods of less than thirty (30) days and other uses as set forth and specified
by sections
10-6C-2 and
10-6C-3 of this article to the extent that such development is compatible with
the protection of the natural and scenic resources of the town and the safety
of the public. Unique winter hazards exist in the town requiring specific
management control of resort hotels, condominiums and commercial enterprises
for the protection of the public and the health, safety and general welfare of
the residents of the town. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code)
10-6C-2: PERMITTED USES:
All permitted uses are subject to sections
10-6C-4 through and including
10-6C-10 of this article; and the following:
Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a permitted use.
"Nameplates" and "signs", as defined and limited in chapter 13 of this title.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code)
10-6C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
All conditional uses are subject to sections
10-6C-4 through and including
10-6C-9 of this article; and the following:
Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a conditional use.
Apartment house, lodging house, hotel, time period unit and condominium
project.
Class B beer outlet, package agency, state store.
Commercial and private recreation.
Dwelling group.
Living quarters for persons employed on the premises of any Main Use.
Multiple-family dwelling.
Offices incidental to the Main Use.
"Planned unit development", as defined in chapter 10 of this title.
Private nonprofit locker club.
Public and quasi-public uses.
Restaurant, boutique, ski shop and other limited commercial uses determined by
the town council to be of the same character of these listed and serving the
needs of the visitors and residents of the canyon.
Temporary structures. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-
2021)
10-6C-4: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND SLOPE REQUIREMENTS:
Construction of any building, structure or improvement shall not be permitted
where any of the following conditions exist:
   A.   The lot area shall be less than one-half (1/2) acre in size; or
   B.   The property from which the said lot was subdivided shall have
contained less than one "net developable acre", as defined in section
10-1-6 of this title; or
   C.   The slope exceeds thirty percent (30%); or
   D.   The width of the lot shall be less than one hundred feet (100').
Where exceptional and extraordinary conditions exist, resort may be made to the
appeal authority pursuant to chapter 5 of this title. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd.
Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6C-5: YARD REGULATIONS:
Because of the unique nature of topography and climatic conditions within the
town, the side, rear and front yard requirements will be determined on an
individual basis by the planning commission. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-6C-6: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The unique nature of the topography, vegetation, soils, climatic and
aesthetic characteristics of the canyon defy uniform regulations and require
that the heights of structures be determined on an individual basis. Maximum
and minimum heights of all conditional uses shall be determined by the planning
commission and after analysis of the following elements:
      1.   Natural setting.
      2.   Relationship with other structures and open spaces.
      3.   Contour intervals and topographic features.
      4.   Height, density and species of vegetation.
      5.   Scenic vistas and sight lines.
      6.   Other elements deemed appropriate to ensure that the provisions of
section
10-6C-1 of this article are met.
   B.   No single-family dwelling shall be erected to a height greater than
three (3) stories, nor less than one story. and the maximum height of any
single-family dwelling shall be thirty five feet (35') above the lower of the
Established grade or Finished Grade Any single-family dwelling which complied
with the height requirements on March 10, 2021 and no longer complies with this
section is a valid complying structure as to height. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord.
2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6C-7: DENSITY REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum: The maximum density for residential dwelling units shall be as
follows:
 
Zone  Maximum Density
FM-10 Up to 10 dwelling units or 20 guestrooms per net developable acre and
      contained in not more than 2 buildings
FM-20 Up to 20 dwelling units or 40 guestrooms per net developable acre and
      contained in not more than 2 buildings
 
   B.   The terms "dwelling unit", "guestroom", and "building" shall strictly
comply with their definitions as set forth in section
10-1-6 of this title.
   C.   The foregoing maximum density regulations shall not be subject to
proration, and except for single-family dwellings, a full, contiguous, "net
developable area", as defined in section
10-1-6 of this title, shall be required for any property to be eligible for
subdivision in an FM-10 or FM-20 zone. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
   D.   For residential uses other than "hotel" or "lodging house", as defined
in section
10-1-6 of this title, the total number of "bedrooms", as determined by the
building official, shall be the total number of guestrooms allowed in
determining maximum density. (Ord. 90-O-4, 4-12-1990)
10-6C-8: MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   The maximum coverage for the aggregate of all building, structures,
graded surfaces, paved areas, overhangs, driveways, decks, parking areas and
walkways shall be twenty five (25%) of the gross lot area.
   B.   The following areas shall not be counted as coverage: Areas that may
have been graded but remain vegetated and open to the sky, such as ski trails
or lawn areas; and
   C.   The following areas shall be counted as coverage: Green or planted
roofs shall be counted as coverage. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-
2021)
10-6C-9: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Natural Hazards: Construction of permanent or temporary structures
shall not be permitted, erected, established or performed in such a manner as
to place real and personal property and/or individuals at unreasonable risk of
harm or injury from natural, geographic or topographic hazards, namely: floods,
landslides, avalanches, a high water table, or inordinate soil erosion. In
addition to compliance with the provisions of the building code governing
topographic, structural, construction and design standards necessary to meet
the maximum foreseeable risk of such hazards, persons developing, improving,
managing or owning such property shall have the obligation and bear the burden
of so developing and/or improving the property in such a manner that the
property and/or the general public are safeguarded from unreasonable risk of
harm or injury from such natural hazards to the satisfaction of the planning
commission and the building official.
   B.   Board Of Health Approval: Prior to issuance of a conditional use permit
by the planning commission or the town council, or issuance of a building
permit by the building official, approval of all uses, regardless of size or
number of units, shall be given in writing by the Salt Lake Valley health
department, who shall certify as to the adequacy of the culinary water system
and the sewage system. The approval of all culinary water and sewage facilities
shall be in accordance with the regulations of the Salt Lake Valley health
department and the state division of health.
   C.   Sewage System: Site plan approvals, conditional use permits or building
permits shall not be issued until the complete sewage system design and
specifications have been approved in writing by all appropriate governmental
agencies with jurisdiction.
   D.   Building Materials: Buildings shall be designed to preserve the natural
beauty of the canyon area. Only those building materials which will blend
harmoniously into the natural environment shall be permitted. The use of wood
and stone and other harmonious materials is encouraged and the use of bland,
unpainted concrete blocks and unpainted metal is prohibited on exterior
surfaces.
   E.   Grading: To reduce the possibility of erosion and eliminate unsightly
scars on the mountain slopes, all excavation, grading, and cut and fill
operations shall be done under the strict control and approval of the building
official. All areas disturbed by construction activities shall be revegetated
and maintained in accordance with an approved plan. No certificate of occupancy
for any project shall be issued by the building official until all revegetation
is complete.
   F.   Natural Vegetation: All existing and proposed vegetation shall be shown
on the approved site plan, and existing vegetation shall not be removed except
as shown thereon. The design of the project shall be such as to retain as much
of the existing natural vegetation as possible.
   G.   Stream Regulations: No building, structure, improvement or appurtenance
shall be constructed, raised or established, the nearest point of which is
within fifty feet (50') from the high water line of any Waterway or within the
Top of Bank as determined by the building official. The approved site plan
shall depict the Waterway and Top of Bank setbacks and also indicate the extent
and specific design of the proposed method of control of erosion during and
after construction activities. The complete, approved erosion control system
shall be installed and approved by the building official prior to commencement
of any construction activities on any site.
   H.   Rehabilitation Of Existing Landscape Scars: In conjunction with
submission of plans and documents for building permit or conditional use
approval, the applicant shall submit for approval a detailed program for
rehabilitation of existing scars on the landscape, if any, caused by unused
roads, mine dumps, excavation, construction or other causes. A bond, in an
amount determined by the building official, covering such rehabilitation
program, shall be deposited with the town to ensure that rehabilitation will be
completed. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the building official
until all approved rehabilitation work is complete.
   I.   Parking Requirements: The planning commission shall determine the
number of parking spaces required; however, the minimum requirements of chapter
12 of this title shall be provided, except that hotels and lodging houses shall
provide one-half (1/2) parking space for each guestroom rounded to the next
higher whole number of parking spaces. In order to gradually reduce the large
parking areas which detract from the natural beauty of the town, the planning
commission may require that covered or enclosed on site parking be provided.
   J.   Utilities: All utilities shall be placed underground.
   K.   Time Period Unit Project:
      1.   In every time period unit project, the condominium declaration, unit
owners' association articles of incorporation and bylaws shall be submitted to
and approved by the town council prior to recordation. Time period unit
projects are regarded as hotels for those characteristics bearing on service to
the public and the health, safety and general welfare of the public and
residents of the town. For purposes of this title and in regarding time period
unit projects as hotels, all such projects shall be required to have management
procedures and are subject to all other regulations identical to those required
of hotels. In addition to all other requirements of the Utah condominium
ownership act, the following provisions shall be included in any time period
unit projects condominium declaration, owners' association articles of
incorporation and bylaws:
         a.   An affirmation that the time period unit project will maintain a
manager and other responsible employees on the project property at all times
for purposes of managing the project as a hotel, answering inquiries from the
general public and from officials of the town and other governmental agencies,
providing for maintenance, upkeep, waste and snow removal as required by unit
owners or transient renters, and responding to emergencies such as fire, storm,
earthquake and avalanche.
         b.   A statement that the act of ratification of the time period unit
project owners' association articles of incorporation and bylaws is a conferral
of power of attorney for the unit owners upon the person in charge or the
designated manager of the project for service of process and on the first
officer of the project owners' organization should no manager be designated. A
further statement that, in matters relating to health, safety and morals of the
residents of the town and/or Salt Lake County, the town may issue to the
project manager, first officer of the project owners' organization or present
manager, instructions, requests, orders, notice of service of process of any
otherwise lawful nature whatsoever, and such issuance or notice shall be
service to all the owners of units within the project and to the owners'
association.
      2.   The unit owners' association of any time period unit project shall
maintain a management reserve fund in the name of the town in an amount to be
established by the town council for each individual project in a trust account
in a bank to be named in the bylaws, to be assessed by the town for any real
costs it may incur in taking responsible emergency steps to secure the safety
of the project, its owners and inhabitants, the residents of the town, or the
general public in the absence from the project of the manager or other
responsible employees or agents of the project.
      3.   No condominium unit shall be converted to a time period unit use
unless one hundred percent (100%) of the owners express in writing a desire to
convert each of their units to a time period use. A condominium project unit
owners association desiring to convert to a time period unit use must apply to
the town on a form provided by the town and must show written evidence that one
hundred percent (100%) of the unit owners will convert to time period use
within one year. Subsequent to any such conversion, but prior to time period
unit use, the condominium declaration and bylaws must be amended and recorded
to clearly show that the project is a time period unit project rather than
simply a condominium project and to comply fully to all the above provisions.
(Ord., 6-8-1989)
      4.   Each time period unit project shall obtain an annual business
license from the town. It is a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to occupy any time period unit or to allow access to any
common area facility by unit owners or the general public without a business
license. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6C-10: CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS APPROVAL:
In order to determine compliance with this title and to promote orderly and
harmonious development of canyon areas, construction documents for all projects
shall be approved by the building official prior to the issuance of any
building permits. Applications for building permit shall be accompanied by
plans, specifications and other documents with sufficient data and at a
reasonable scale to describe all existing and proposed conditions, including,
but not limited to, topography, grading, roads and walks, buildings, utilities,
vegetation, exterior materials, color schedules, and other such information as
may be required to ensure compliance with the provisions of this title. The
building official may seek the recommendation of the planning commission prior
to approval of any protect. Applications may be approved as submitted, approved
subject to conditions, or disapproved. Appeal of any decision of the building
official may be made to the town council by filing a written notice of such
affect with the town clerk within twenty (20) days of the date of the written
notice of such determination. The town council shall thereupon promptly hear
such appeal at the next regular meeting of the town council or at a special
meeting, upon call of the mayor, and the matter shall be reviewed de novo.
(Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-6C-11: PETITIONS TO REZONE:
   A.   Content Of Petition: Any request to amend an existing zoning ordinance
or to amend and change the zoning of any particular property within the town,
shall be submitted to the town clerk in the form of a written and verified
petition. Said petition shall include the following elements:
      1.   The full name and address of the petitioner.
      2.   A statement of all legal, contractual and equitable interest in the
property as to which zone amendment or change is sought, including the names
and addresses of all such individuals.
      3.   A legal description by metes and bounds, or otherwise, of the
property as to which zoning amendment or change is sought.
      4.   A statement as to the reasons and basis for the amendment or change
to any zoning ordinance or land use classification.
      5.   If real property is to be developed pursuant to the proposed amended
and/or changed zoning ordinance, a statement in detail of the plans relating to
such development, including those elements as required in sections
10-6C-3 through and including
10-6C-9 of this article. The petitioner shall attach two (2) copies of plans,
specifications and other documents as may be necessary to fully describe in
detail the nature, character and extent of the proposed development as to which
the petition relates and five (5) additional copies when petition requires
Planning Commission review.
      6.   A statement as to the availability of all utility services. (Ord.,
6-8-1989)
   B.   Fees: At the time the petition is filed, the applicant shall also pay
to the town clerk all required fees as set by resolution of the town council.
(Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Planning Commission Review: Upon receipt of any petition filed under
this section and payment of all appropriate fees by petitioner, the town clerk
shall forward forthwith such petition and all attachments to the chairperson of
the planning commission for review, analysis and action by that commission
pursuant to law at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the commission.
(Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6C-12: MECHANICAL SCREENING OF ROOFTOP ELEMENTS:
   A.   Rooftop Elements shall be set back at least five feet (5') from the
edges of the structure.
   B.   All rooftop elements, except for flagpoles and windsocks, must be
architecturally screened to:
      1.   Not detract from the natural environment of the canyon;
      2.   Not adversely affect the viewshed of neighbors or canyon visitors;
and
      3.   Be harmonious with the base structure. (Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
ARTICLE D.  BASE FACILITIES ZONE
SECTION:
10-6D-1: Introduction
10-6D-2: Purpose
10-6D-3: Guestroom Defined
10-6D-4: Permitted, Prohibited Uses
10-6D-5: Density Regulations
10-6D-6: Parking Requirements
10-6D-7: Employee Housing
10-6D-8: Lot Area, Lot Width And Slope Requirements
10-6D-9: Yard Regulations
10-6D-10: Height Requirements
10-6D-11: Maximum Coverage
10-6D-12: Step Back (Building)
10-6D-13: Mechanical Screening
10-6D-14: Special Regulations
10-6D-15: Construction Documents Approval
10-6D-1: INTRODUCTION:
   A.   Zoning Map: The base facilities zone applies to those certain parcels
within the Town of Alta shown on the zoning map as BF-10.
   B.   Identification Of Subzones A, B and C Within The Base Facilities Zone:
Zone A includes the Snowpine Lodge, the Rustler Lodge and the Alta Lodge. Zone
B includes the Goldminer's Daughter Lodge and the Alta Peruvian Lodge. Zone C
includes the Shallow Shaft Restaurant and the Photohaus. (Ord. 2014-O-5, 12-11-
2014; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6D-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the base facilities zone is to allow land to be used for retail
and service commercial establishments and uses, together with transient
accommodations uses. The base facilities zone is the commercial hub of the town
and, as a result, no residential uses, including, but not limited to,
condominiums and single-family residences shall be permitted within the base
facilities zone. (Ord. 2008-O-7, 6-12-2008)
10-6D-3: GUESTROOM DEFINED:
"Guestroom", for the purposes of this article, shall mean every six hundred
(600) square feet of total floor area within a structure, and the remainder
thereof. (Ord. 2008-O-7, 6-12-2008)
10-6D-4: PERMITTED, PROHIBITED USES:
   A.   Permitted uses:
      1.   Hotels.
      2.   Conferences.
      3.   Retail commercial services, limited to the following and similar
uses: retail shops, art galleries, bakeries, bars, bookstores, liquor stores,
clothing stores, drugstores, food markets, gift shops, restaurants, sporting
goods stores, ski shops and variety stores.
      4.   Storage of materials accessory to permitted uses in subsections A1
and A2 of this section, provided all such storage is located within a
structure.
      5.   Parking of motor vehicles accessory to other uses permitted herein.
      6.   Parks, open spaces and recreational uses.
      7.   Designated employee housing units, as described in section
10-6D-7 of this article.
   B.   Prohibited: All other uses are not permitted in the base facilities
zone. (Ord. 2008-O-7, 6-12-2008; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6D-5: DENSITY REGULATIONS:
The maximum density for hotels shall be thirty three (33) guestrooms per net
developable area. In calculating the total number of rooms allowed, the net
developable acres multiplied by thirty three (33) shall be rounded down to the
next lower whole number if the calculated value is a fraction. (Ord. 2008-O-7,
6-12-2008)
10-6D-6: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Existing Projects: For an existing project, there shall be provided the
number of existing parking spaces, and in addition, one legal, overnight
parking space shall be provided for every eight (8) guestrooms, or increment
thereof, added to any existing project, and one-half (1/2) parking space shall
be provided for every one employee living accommodation added to any existing
project pursuant to section
10-6D-7 of this article, rounded up to the nearest whole number.
   B.   Location: All parking spaces provided shall be located either on the
site or at a location acceptable to the land use authority.
   C.   New Construction Project: For any new construction project, there shall
be provided the number of parking spaces required pursuant to section
10-12-4 of this title. Alternatively, for any project, the owner of the
property may submit to the land use authority a parking management plan for the
project proposing the number of parking spaces to be provided, taking into
consideration hotel guests, live in tenant employees and day shift employees,
and including the location of such spaces, for review, revisions and approval
by the land use authority. (Ord. 2008-O-7, 6-12-2008)
10-6D-7: EMPLOYEE HOUSING:
   A.   Existing Project: For an existing project, there shall be provided the
number of existing employee living accommodations in the project, and in
addition, additional living accommodations for one employee shall be provided
on the site for each five (5) additional guestrooms, or increment thereof.
   B.   New Construction Project: For any new construction project, there shall
also be provided living accommodations on the site for one employee for every
five (5) guestrooms. In calculating the required number of employee living
accommodations, the number of proposed guestrooms shall be divided by five (5)
and rounded up to the next larger whole number if the number of guestrooms
divided by five (5) is a fraction. (Ord. 2008-O-7, 6-12-2008)
10-6D-8: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND SLOPE REQUIREMENTS:
Construction of any building, structure or improvements shall not be permitted
where any of the following conditions exist:
   A.   The lot area is less than one net developable acre in size; or
   B.   The slope exceeds thirty percent (30%); or
   C.   The width of the lot shall be less than one hundred feet (100'). (Ord.
2008-O-7, 6-12-2008)
10-6D-9: YARD REGULATIONS:
Because of the unique nature of topography and climatic conditions within the
town, the side, rear and front yard requirements will be determined on an
individual basis by the land use authority. In making its determination the
land use authority shall take into account the following elements, among other
relevant considerations:
   A.   Relationship with other structures and open spaces.
   B.   View sheds from SR-210, neighboring properties and visitors to the
area.
   C.   Topographical features.
   D.   Existing vegetation.
   E.   Natural waterways.
   F.   Snow removal and snow storage requirements.
   G.   Emergency and general access.
   H.   Other elements deemed appropriate to ensure that the purposes of this
article are met. (Ord. 2014-O-5, 12-11-2014)
10-6D-10: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The maximum height of any building or structure in zone A shall be
twenty five feet (25') above the grade of SR-210 as measured from every point
of the building horizontally to SR-210 directly north of that point.
   B.   The maximum height of any building in zone B shall be sixty feet (60')
above the lower of Established Grade or Finished Grade, measured from the
highest point of the building vertically to the lowest point of the lower of
Established Grade or Finished Grade that is contiguous to the building.
   C.   The maximum height of any building in zone C shall be individually
determined by the land use authority. In making its determination, the land use
authority shall take into account the following elements, among other relevant
considerations:
      1.   Natural setting.
      2.   View sheds from SR-210, neighboring properties and visitors to the
area.
      3.   Topographical features.
      4.   Height, density and species of vegetation.
      5.   Other elements such as those mentioned above deemed appropriate to
ensure that the purposes of this article are met. (Ord. 2014-O-5, 12-11-2014)
      6.   The maximum height of any building in zone C as established by the
land use authority shall be that height as measured above the lower of
Established Grade or Finished Grade, measured from the highest point of the
building vertically to the lowest point of the lower of Established Grade or
Finished Grade that is contiguous to the building. (Ord. 2014-O-5, 12-11-2014;
amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6D-11: MAXIMUM COVERAGE:
The maximum coverage for the aggregate of all buildings, structures, graded
surfaces, paved areas, overhangs, driveways, decks, parking areas and walkways
shall be sixty five percent (65%) of the gross lot area.
The following areas shall not be counted as coverage:
   A.   Areas that are (a) graded but not paved, (b) used for vehicle accessor
walkways, and (c) not maintained or have snow removed during the winter months
(November 1 to May 1).
   B.   Areas that may have been graded but remain vegetated and open to the
sky, such as ski trails or areas revegetated with native species.
   C.   The following areas shall be counted as coverage: Green or planted
roofs shall count as coverage. (Ord. 2014-O-5, 12-11-2014; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1,
3-10-2021)
10-6D-12: STEP BACK (BUILDING):
In the base facilities zone no building as seen from the transfer tow or from
the southern side of the canyon shall be higher than four (4) stories or forty
eight feet (48') high, whichever is lower, without a twenty five foot (25')
physical step back in the building. (Ord. 2014-O-5, 12-11-2014)
10-6D-13: MECHANICAL SCREENING:
   A.   Rooftop elements shall be setback at least five feet (5') from the edge
of the structure and fifteen feet (15') from the north or south building
facades.
   B.   All rooftop elements, except for flagpoles and windsocks, must be
architecturally screened to:
      1.   Not detract from the natural environment of the canyon;
      2.   Not adversely affect views from neighbors or canyon visitors; and
      3.   Be harmonious with the base structure. (Ord. 2014-O-5, 12-11-2014;
amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6D-14: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Natural Hazards: Construction of permanent or temporary structures
shall not be permitted, erected, established or performed in such a manner as
to place real and personal property and individuals at unreasonable risk of
harm or injury from natural, geographic or topographic hazards, namely, floods,
landslides, avalanches, a high water table, or inordinate soil erosion. In
addition to compliance with the provisions of the building code governing
topographic, structural, construction and design standards necessary to meet
the maximum foreseeable risk of such hazards, persons developing, improving,
managing or owning such property shall have the obligation and bear the burden
of so developing and otherwise improving the property in such a manner that the
property and the general public are safeguarded from unreasonable risk of harm
or injury from such natural hazards to the satisfaction of the land use
authority and the building official.
   B.   Board Of Health Approval: Prior to issuance of a building permit by the
building official, approval of all uses, regardless of size or number of units,
shall be given in writing by the Salt Lake Valley health department and Salt
Lake City division of public utilities, or the respective successors thereof,
who shall certify as to the adequacy of the culinary water system and the
sewage system. The approval of all culinary water and sewage facilities shall
be in accordance with the regulations of the Salt Lake Valley health department
and Salt Lake City division of public utilities.
   C.   Sewage System: Site plan approvals or building permits shall not be
issued until the complete sewage system design and specifications have been
approved in writing by all appropriate governmental agencies with jurisdiction.
   D.   Building Materials: Buildings shall be designed to preserve the natural
beauty of the canyon area. Only those building materials which will blend
harmoniously into the natural environment shall be permitted. The use of wood
and stone and other harmonious materials is encouraged and the use of bland,
unpainted concrete blocks and unpainted metal is prohibited on exterior
surfaces.
   E.   Grading: To reduce the possibility of erosion and eliminate unsightly
scars on the mountain slopes, all excavation, grading and cut and fill
operations shall be done under the strict control and approval of the building
official. All areas disturbed by construction activities shall be revegetated
and maintained in accordance with a plan submitted by the owner of the property
as part of the application for a building permit and approved by the land use
authority. No certificate of occupancy for any project shall be issued by the
building official until all revegetation is complete.
   F.   Natural Vegetation: All existing and proposed vegetation shall be shown
on the approved site plan, and existing vegetation shall not be removed except
as shown thereon. The design of the project shall be such as to retain as much
of the existing natural vegetation as possible.
   G.   Stream Regulations; Erosion Control: No building, structure,
improvement or appurtenance shall be constructed, raised or established, the
nearest point of which is within fifty feet (50') from the high water line of
any Waterway or within the Top of Bank as determined by the building official.
The approved site plan shall depict the Waterway and Top of Bank setbacks and
also indicate the extent and specific design of the proposed method of control
of erosion during and after construction activities. The complete, approved
erosion control system shall be installed and approved by the building official
prior to commencement of any construction activities on any site.
   H.   Rehabilitation Of Existing Landscape Scars: In conjunction with
submission of plans and documents for building permit or conditional use
approval, the applicant shall submit for approval a detailed program for
rehabilitation of existing scars on the landscape, if any, caused by unused
roads, mine dumps, excavation, construction or other causes. A bond, in an
amount determined by the building official, covering such rehabilitation
program shall be deposited with the town to ensure that rehabilitation will be
completed. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the building official
until all approved rehabilitation work is complete.
   I.   Utilities: All utilities shall be placed underground. (Ord. 2008-O-7,
6-12-2008; amd. Ord. 2014-O-5, 12-11-2014; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6D-15: CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS APPROVAL:
In order to determine compliance with this article and to promote orderly and
harmonious development of canyon areas, construction documents for all projects
shall be approved by the building official prior to the issuance of any
building permits. Applications for building permits shall be accompanied by
plans, specifications and other documents with sufficient data and at a
reasonable scale to describe all existing and proposed conditions, including,
but not limited to, topography, grading, roads and walks, buildings, utilities,
vegetation, exterior materials, color schedules, and other such information as
may be required to ensure compliance with the provisions of this article. The
building official may seek the recommendation of the land use authority prior
to approval of any project. Applications may be approved as submitted, approved
subject to conditions, or disapproved. (Ord. 2008-O-7, 6-12-2008; amd. Ord.
2014-O-5, 12-11-2014)
ARTICLE E. UPPER ALBION BASIN PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
10-6E-1: Overlay Zone Map
10-6E-2: Purpose
10-6E-3: Existing Dwellings
10-6E-4: Cross References
10-6E-1: OVERLAY ZONE MAP:
The Upper Albion Basin Protection Overlay Zone or "UABPOZ" applies to those
certain parcels within the town of Alta shown on the Upper Albion Basin
Protection Overlay Zone map on file at the Town of Alta. (Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-
2021)
10-6E-2: PURPOSE:
The Upper Albion Basin is a unique, beautiful, and fragile alpine ecosystem
that includes the headwaters of the Little Cottonwood Canyon watershed. The
purpose of the Upper Albion Basin Protection Overlay Zone is to preserve and
protect the scenic beauty and sensitive natural environment of Albion Basin, as
well as the quality of the Little Cottonwood watershed. (Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-
2021)
10-6E-3: EXISTING DWELLINGS:
As described in the Town of Alta General Plan, there are twenty-one existing
single-family dwellings located in the Upper Albion Basin Protection Overlay
Zone. They are unique, and the town supports their continued existence and
maintenance in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-6E-4: CROSS REFERENCES:
The following provisions apply to the UABPOZ:
   
10-1-6: Definitions (Net Developable Acreage);
   
10-6A-8: Wastewater System;
   
10-6A-9(G): Special Regulation;
   
10-8-1: Purpose;
   
10-8-4(A): Repairs, Alterations, Deterioration, and Demolition;
   
8-3-6(G): Private Wastewater Disposal; and
   
8-3-10(C): Sanitary Sewers, Building Sewers and Connections. (Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-
10-2021)
CHAPTER 7
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Effect Of Chapter
10-7-2: Lots In Separate Ownership
10-7-3: Yard Space For One Building Only
10-7-4: Every Dwelling To Be On A Lot
10-7-5: Separately Owned Lots; Reduced Yards
10-7-6: Private Garage With Side Yard; Reduced Yards
10-7-7: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space
10-7-8: Sale Of Lots Below Minimum Space Requirements
10-7-9: Yards To Be Unobstructed; Exceptions
10-7-10: Area Of Accessory Buildings
10-7-11: Exception To Height Limitations And Screening
10-7-12: Minimum Height Of Main Building
10-7-13: Maximum Height Of Accessory Buildings
10-7-14: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
10-7-15: Animals And Fowl
10-7-16: Water And Sewage Requirements
10-7-17: Effect Of Official Map
10-7-18: Lot And Buildings On Private Rights Of Way (Special Provisions)
10-7-19: Administrative Determination Of Uses Not Listed
10-7-20: Certificate Of Occupancy
10-7-21: Technical Review Committee
10-7-22: Avalanche Hazard Review
10-7-1: EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the zone regulations appearing elsewhere in this title. (Ord.,
6-8-1989)
10-7-2: LOTS IN SEPARATE OWNERSHIP:
The requirements of this title as to minimum lot area or lot width shall not be
construed to prevent the use for a single- family dwelling of any lot or parcel
of land in the event that such lot or parcel of land is held in separate
ownership at the time this title became effective. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-7-3: YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY:
No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is
hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this title, shall be considered as providing a yard or open space
for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space on an
adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon
a building is to be erected or established. This section shall be so construed
to mean only one main building may be permitted on one lot unless otherwise
hereinafter provided. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-7-4: EVERY DWELLING TO BE ON A LOT:
Except for dwellings within a planned unit development, every dwelling shall be
located and maintained on a "lot", as defined in section
10-1-6 of this title. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-7-5: SEPARATELY OWNED LOTS; REDUCED YARDS:
On any lot under a separate ownership from adjacent lots and of record at the
time this title became effective, and such lot being a smaller width than
required for the zone in which it is located, the width of each of the side
yards for a dwelling may be reduced to a width which is not less than the same
percentage of the width of the lot as the required side yard would be of the
required lot width; provided, that on interior lots, the smaller of the two (2)
yards shall in no case be less than five feet (5'), or the larger less than
eight feet (8'); and for corner lots the side yard on the side street shall in
no case be less than ten feet (10') or the other side yard be less than five
feet (5'). (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-7-6: PRIVATE GARAGE WITH SIDE YARD; REDUCED YARDS:
On any interior lot where a private garage, containing a sufficient number of
parking spaces to meet the requirements of this title, has a side yard equal to
the minimum side yard required for a dwelling in the same zone, the width of
the other side yard for the dwelling may be reduced to equal that of the
minimum required side yard; and on any lot where such garage has such side
yard, the rear yard of the dwelling may be reduced to fifteen feet (15'),
provided the garage also has a rear yard of at least fifteen feet (15'). (Ord.,
6-8-1989)
10-7-7: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE:
No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other
requirements of this title for lot or building may be sold or leased away from
such lot or building. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-7-8: SALE OF LOTS BELOW MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area requirements
for the zone in which it is located may be cut off from a larger parcel of land
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building or development as a
lot, except by permit of the appeal authority. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code)
10-7-9: YARDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; EXCEPTIONS:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed except for
accessory buildings in the rear yard, the ordinary projections of skylights,
sills, belt courses, cornices, chimneys, flues, and other ornamental features
which project into a yard not more than three feet (3'), and open or lattice
enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways, and balconies upon fire
towers projecting into a yard not more than five feet (5'). (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-7-10: AREA OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
No accessory building or group of accessory buildings in any residential zone
shall cover more than twenty five percent (25%) of the rear yard. (Ord., 6-8-
1989)
10-7-11: EXCEPTION TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS AND SCREENING REQUIREMENTS:
Rooftop elements may be installed on the roof of a building structure in any
zone. Flagpoles and windsocks shall be limited to twelve feet (12') above the
lower of the maximum building height as allowed or as built. Elevator
penthouses and stair enclosures shall be limited to eight feet (8') above the
lower of the maximum building height as allowed or as built, unless a greater
height is necessary to comply with the requirements of the U.S. Americans with
Disabilities Act, as determined by the building official. All other rooftop
elements shall be limited to six feet (6') above the lower of the maximum
building height as allowed or as built. For renewable energy production
systems, such as solar panels and wind turbines, the Land Use Authority may
establish a greater height limit on Rooftop Elements than provided in this
section and may modify the architectural screening requirements in sections
10-6A-12,
10-6C-12, and
10-6D-13, upon application by a property owner. In reviewing such an
application, the Land Use Authority shall consider:
   A.   The benefits of the proposed renewable energy production system;
   B.   The necessity of granting an exception to the requirements of this
section and sections
10-6A-12,
10-6C-12, and
10-6D-13, including the availability of alternate renewable energy equipment
and installation locations; and
   C.   The impacts of granting an exception to the requirements of this
section and sections
10-6A-12,
10-6C-12, and
10-6D-13, including:
      1.   Impacts upon views;
      2.   Visual impacts upon and harmony with surrounding natural areas and
structures;
      3.   Impacts upon wildlife; and
      4.   Other relevant factors. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-
2021)
10-7-12: MINIMUM HEIGHT OF MAIN BUILDING:
No building shall be erected to a height less than one story above grade.
(Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-7-13: MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
No accessory building in any residential zone shall be erected to a height
greater than one story or twenty feet (20'). (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-
1, 3-10-2021)
10-7-14: CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
In all zones, no obstruction in excess of two feet (2') in height shall be
placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street property
lines and a line connecting them at points forty feet (40') from the
intersection of the street lines. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-
2021)
10-7-15: ANIMALS AND FOWL:
Except for permitted and licensed household pets, no animals or fowl may be
kept or maintained. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-7-16: WATER AND SEWAGE REQUIREMENTS:
In all cases where a proposed building or proposed use will involve the use of
sewage facilities, and "sewer", as defined in the town sewer ordinance, is not
available, and all cases where a proposed supply of piped water under pressure
is not available, the sewage disposal and the domestic water supply shall
comply with the requirements of the Salt Lake Valley health department and the
application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a certificate of
approval from said health department. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-
10-2021)
10-7-17: EFFECT OF OFFICIAL MAP:
Wherever a front yard is required for a lot facing on a street for which an
official map has been recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County recorder,
the depth of such front yard shall be measured from the mapped street line
provided on the official map. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-7-18: LOT AND BUILDINGS ON PRIVATE RIGHTS OF WAY (SPECIAL PROVISIONS):
Except where the requirements of this section are reduced by permit of the
appeal authority, the minimum area for any lot fronting on a private right of
way shall be one-half (1/2) acre and the minimum distance from the center of
the right of way to the front line of the building shall be fifty feet (50').
(Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-7-19: ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATION OF USES NOT LISTED:
Determination as to the classification of uses not specifically listed within
this title shall be made by the planning commission and shall be subject to
appeal to the appeal authority. Such appeal shall be filed in writing within
ten (10) days after written notification to the applicant of the planning
commission's determination. The procedure shall be as follows: (Ord., 6-8-1989;
amd. 2010 Code)
   A.   Written Request: A written request for such determination shall be
filed with the planning commission at the town office. The request shall
include a detailed description of the proposed use and such other information
as may be required.
   B.   Investigation: The planning commission shall thereupon make such
investigations as are deemed necessary to compare the nature and
characteristics of the proposed use with those of uses specifically listed in
this title, and to make a determination of its classification.
   C.   Determination: The determination of the planning commission shall be
rendered in writing within a reasonable time, but not to exceed thirty (30)
days, except with the written consent of the applicant. The determination will
state the zone classification in which the proposed use will be permitted as
well as the findings which establish that such use is of the same character as
uses permitted in that zone classification. Upon making a decision, the
planning commission shall forthwith notify the applicant and the town council.
   D.   Effect: The determination and all information pertaining thereto shall
become a permanent public record in the town office. Such use shall thereafter
become a permitted or conditional use in the class of district specified in the
determination, and shall have the same status as a permitted or conditional use
specifically named in the regulations for the zone classification. (Ord., 6-8-
1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-7-20: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
Land, buildings and premises in any zone hereafter shall be used only for the
purpose listed herein as permitted in that zone and in accordance with the
regulations herein established for that zone. The certificate of occupancy
shall be issued by the building official to the effect that the use and/or
building or premises conforms to the provisions of this title and related
ordinances prior to the occupancy of any building hereafter erected, enlarged
or structurally altered, or where any vacant land is hereafter proposed to be
occupied or used. Such a certificate shall also be issued whenever the
character or use of any building or land is proposed to be changed from one use
to another use. Upon written request from the owner, such certificate shall
also be issued covering any lawful use of a building or premises existing on
the effective date hereof, including noncomplying buildings and nonconforming
uses. For all buildings, the certificate shall issue after the Alta Marshal
Office certifies compliance with emergency notification of all emergency safety
procedures, including interlodge notifications. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord.
2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-7-21: TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE:
The technical review committee shall be headed by the building official and
shall include a representative of the town marshal staff and the fire marshal
or other designee. At his discretion, the building official may request that
other persons from various specific technical disciplines and/or agencies be
added to the committee on an ad hoc basis. Except for projects involving
interior remodeling only, this committee shall review the technical aspects of
all proposed projects for which an application for a building permit has been
received. A written report of the review and the committee's recommendations
shall be returned to the applicant within a reasonable time, but in no case
later than forty five (45) days from the date of application for building
permit. No building permit for any project requiring review may be issued by
the building official without the review and approval of the committee. (Ord.,
6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-7-22: AVALANCHE HAZARD REVIEW:
Prior to the building official issuing a building permit for the construction
of a dwelling unit, building or other structure to be occupied by one or more
persons, the applicant must provide to the town and its building official for
review by the town and the planning commission:
   A.   A written report analyzing the potential avalanche hazards and the
potential physical forces created thereby upon the proposed improvement or
structure. Said report to be prepared and signed by an avalanche expert
recognized by the building official. Said report shall also be recorded on the
plat map for the property.
   B.   A structural analysis of the proposed building prepared and signed by a
state licensed structural engineer reflecting an engineering analysis and
design that takes into account the potential force from an avalanche as set
forth in the avalanche report referred to in subsection A of this section.
(Ord. 1992-O-2, 4-9-1992)
   C.   No building permit shall be issued to any applicant unless the state
licensed structural engineer submitting the written report analyzing the
potential avalanche dangers required in this section certifies, in writing,
that the proposed building design and construction or proposed structural
modification of an existing structure, will protect human life throughout the
dwelling unit, building or structure from the anticipated one hundred (100)
year avalanche forces for the location of the proposed dwelling unit, building
or structure or proposed addition or modification thereto. (Ord. 1996-O-3, 8-8-
1996; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
CHAPTER 8
NONCONFORMING USES AND NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Continuation Permitted
10-8-3: Burden Of Proof
10-8-4: Repairs, Alterations, Deterioration, And Demolition
10-8-5: Alteration Where Parking Insufficient
10-8-6: Restoration In Response To Calamity
10-8-7: Abandonment By One Year Discontinuation Or Vacancy
10-8-8: Occupation Within One Year
10-8-9: Change Of Use
10-8-10: Extension Of Use Permitted
10-8-11: Nonconforming Use Of Land
10-8-12: Nonconforming Restaurants And Private Locker Clubs
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter regulates the continued existence of nonconforming uses and
noncomplying structures. (1) This chapter is intended to balance the public
interest by limiting enlargement, alteration, restoration, and replacement of
nonconforming uses and noncomplying structures, which would increase the
discrepancy between existing conditions and the development standards
prescribed by Alta Town Code; (2) preserving and protecting the scenic beauty
and sensitive natural environment of Albion Basin, as well as the quality of
the Little Cottonwood Canyon watershed; and (3) promoting economic and
community development within the Town by supporting the ski resort-based
economy and facilitating year-round residency. (Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-8-2: CONTINUATION PERMITTED:
A nonconforming use may continue subject to the standards and limitations of
this chapter. A noncomplying structure may continue to be used and occupied
subject to the standards and limitation of this chapter. (Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-
2021)
10-8-3: BURDEN OF PROOF:
   A.   The property owner shall have the burden of establishing the legal
existence of a nonconforming use or noncomplying structure.
   B.   Any party claiming that a nonconforming use or noncomplying structure
has been abandoned or otherwise terminated shall have the burden of
establishing the abandonment or termination. (Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-8-4: REPAIRS, ALTERATIONS, DETERIORATION, AND DEMOLITION:
   A.   Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a noncomplying
structure or to a building containing a nonconforming use including a one time
expansion of up to two hundred fifty (250) gross square feet of floor area so
long as such expansion, repairs or alterations do not create a new area of
noncompliance or nonconforming use including but not limited to waterway
setbacks or increase the Intensity of nonconforming use or the noncomplying
structure (notwithstanding the increase of two hundred fifty (250) gross square
feet of building square footage).
   B.   A Noncomplying structure or a structure that contains a nonconforming
use, may be voluntarily demolished and rebuilt so long as there is written
approval that the demolition/rebuild is approved by the Salt Lake Valley health
department and Salt Lake City division of public utilities, is in the same
footprint as the original structure with up to a maximum additional two hundred
fifty (250) gross square feet of floor area, does not increase the area of
noncompliance or increase the Intensity of of the Use (notwithstanding the
increase of two hundred fifty (250) gross square feet of building square
footage), and the Building Official finds that the demolition/rebuild would
lessen the total immediate and long term impacts including construction
impacts.
   C.   Restoration or reconstruction of a noncomplying structure is
prohibited, or the nonconforming use of a structure is terminated, if:
      1.   The structure is allowed to deteriorate to a condition that the
structure is rendered uninhabitable, and
      2.   A plan is not submitted to, and approved by the building official
within two (2) years after written notice to the property owner that the
structure is uninhabitable; and
      3.   A certificate of occupancy is not issued within five (5) years after
the plan is approved. (Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-8-5: ALTERATION WHERE PARKING INSUFFICIENT:
A structure lacking sufficient automobile parking space in connection therewith
as required by this title may be altered, provided additional automobile
parking space is provided to meet the requirements of this title for such
alteration. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-8-6: RESTORATION IN RESPONSE TO CALAMITY:
If a noncomplying structure or a structure occupied by a nonconforming use is
involuntarily destroyed in whole or in part by fire, flood, wind, earthquake,
avalanche, or other calamity or act of God, or the public enemy, and the
noncomplying structure or nonconforming use has not been abandoned prior to
such destruction, the noncomplying structure may be restored and the
nonconforming use may be resumed, provided that such restoration is started
within a period of two (2) years and is diligently prosecuted to completion,
and the intensity of use is not increased. (Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-8-7: ABANDONMENT BY ONE YEAR DISCONTINUATION OR VACANCY:
Except when abandonment is cause by a calamity or Act of God, a nonconforming
use that is discontinued for a continuous period of one year shall not
thereafter be reestablished or resumed. A structure, or portion thereof,
occupied by a nonconforming use, which remains unoccupied by the nonconforming
use for a continuous period of one year shall not thereafter be occupied except
by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the zone in which it is
located. This section does not apply to dwellings. (Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-8-8: OCCUPATION WITHIN ONE YEAR:
A vacant structure may be occupied by a use for which the structure was
designed or intended if so occupied within a period of one year after the use
became nonconforming. (Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-8-9: CHANGE OF USE:
The nonconforming use of a structure may not be changed except to a conforming
use; but where such change is made, the use shall not thereafter be changed
back to a nonconforming use. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-8-10: EXTENSION OF USE PERMITTED:
A nonconforming use may be extended to include the entire floor area of the
existing structure in which it was conducted at the time the use became
nonconforming. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-8-11: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
The nonconforming use of land, existing at the time this title became
effective, may be continued; provided, that no such nonconforming use of land
shall in any way be expanded or extended either on the same or adjoining
property; and provided, that if such nonconforming use of land, or portion
thereof, is abandoned or changed for a period of one year or more, the future
use of such land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this title.
(Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021)
10-8-12: NONCONFORMING RESTAURANTS AND PRIVATE LOCKER CLUBS:
Existing restaurants or nonprofit locker clubs which were nonconforming as of
July 1, 1969, may, upon application, be granted a conditional use permit for a
state store, subject to this code. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-
2021)
CHAPTER 9
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Conditional Use Permit
10-9-3: Sale Of Alcoholic Beverages; Special Provisions
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to allow proper integration into the town of
uses which may be suitable only in certain locations in the town or zoning
district, or only if such uses are designed or laid out on the site in a
particular manner. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code)
10-9-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as conditional
uses in the district regulations or elsewhere in this title. A conditional use
permit may be revoked upon failure to comply with conditions precedent to the
original approval of the permit. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code)
   A.   Application: Application for a conditional use permit shall be made by
the owner of the property or certified agent thereof, and shall be submitted to
the planning commission through the town clerk.
   B.   Accompanying Documents: Two (2) complete sets of documents shall be
submitted with the application for a conditional use permit. These documents
will be of a size, nature and scale to completely describe both the physical
characteristics and the intended use of the proposed project. In general, the
following documents will be required at a minimum:
      1.   Site plans showing both existing and proposed new structures,
streets, roads, walks, parking, grading, drainage, utilities, landscaping,
revegetation, erosion control, signs, snow removal and storage, known avalanche
paths and other natural hazards, access for both public and emergency vehicles,
accessory buildings, and other pertinent information.
      2.   Site sections showing sight lines from appropriate adjacent
properties and structures.
      3.   Building floor and other plans, elevations, section, and details of
sufficient nature, size and scale to fully describe all proposed buildings.
      4.   Such other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to allow the
planning commission to arrive at a decision.
      5.   If, in the opinion of the chairperson of the planning commission, or
his designated representative, the documents submitted are insufficient to
allow the planning commission to reach a decision, he may, at his discretion,
require additional documents and/or data beyond those described above. (Ord.,
6-8-1989)
   C.   Fees: Fees for conditional use permits shall be set by resolution of
the town council. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Public Hearing: No public hearing need be held, however, a hearing may
be held when the planning commission shall deem such a hearing to be necessary
and in the public interest. Such hearing, if deemed necessary, shall be held
within fifteen (15) days from the date of the application. The particular time
and place shall be determined by the chairperson of the planning commission.
The chairperson of the planning commission shall require the town clerk to post
a notice of the hearing in three (3) conspicuous places in the town not less
than ten (10) calendar days prior to the date of such hearing. Failure of
property owners to receive notice of said hearing shall in no way affect the
validity of any action taken.
   E.   Determination: The planning commission may permit a conditional use to
be located within any district in which the particular conditional use is
permitted by the use regulations of this title. In authorizing any conditional
use, the planning commission shall impose such requirements and conditions as
required by law and any additional conditions as may be necessary for the
protection of adjacent properties and the public welfare. The planning
commission shall not authorize a conditional use permit unless the evidence
presented is such as to establish:
      1.   The proposed use of the particular location is necessary or
desirable to provide a service or facility which will contribute to the general
well being of the neighborhood and the community; and
      2.   Such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case,
be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing or
working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the
vicinity; and
      3.   The proposed use will comply with regulations and conditions
specified in this title for such use; and
      4.   The proposed use will conform with the intent of the town master
plan. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
   F.   Appeals Of Decisions: The applicant, planning staff and/or the building
official shall have the right to appeal to the appeal authority any decision
rendered by the planning commission by filing, in writing and in triplicate,
the reasons for said appeal with the appeal authority within ten (10) days
following the decision by the planning commission. If no appeal is taken within
ten (10) days, the decision of the planning commission shall be deemed final.
      1.   Notification Of Planning Commission: The appeal authority shall
notify the planning commission of the date of said review, in writing, at least
fifteen (15) days preceding the date set for said appeal to enable the planning
commission to prepare the record for said appeal.
      2.   Determination Of Appeal Authority: On appeal, the appeal authority
may make its decision on the record or it may hear the application "de novo".
The appeal authority may affirm, reverse, alter or remand for further review
and consideration any action taken by said planning commission. (Ord. 90-O-6,
4-12-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
   G.   Inspection: Following the issuance of a conditional use permit by the
planning commission, the building official may approve an application for a
building permit subject the applicant having met all imposed conditions and
restrictions and pursuant to chapter 2 of this title, and shall ensure that
development is undertaken and completed in compliance with said permits.
   H.   Time Limit: Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use
permit within a maximum period of one year from the date of its issuance, the
conditional use permit shall expire. The planning commission may grant a
maximum extension of six (6) months under exceptional circumstances. (Ord., 6-
8-1989)
10-9-3: SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Permit: The town council may authorize the issuance of a permit to sell
alcoholic beverages. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
   B.   Review; Application; Fee: All licenses for the sale of alcoholic
beverages are subject to an annual review and all applications for a license
for the sale of liquor or beer must be accompanied by a fee as set by
resolution of the town council. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Appeal: The denial of any permit to dispense alcoholic beverages by the
town council is subject to review by the district court. All appeals of
decisions of the town council to the district court must be filed with the
appropriate body within thirty (30) days from the date of the town council
action. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
CHAPTER 10
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
10-10-1: Introduction
10-10-2: Purpose
10-10-3: Definition
10-10-4: Planned Unit Development Permit
10-10-5: Required Conditions
10-10-6: Site Plan Requirements
10-10-7: Planning Commission Action
10-10-8: Construction Limitations
10-10-9: Public Hearing
10-10-10: Performance Bond
10-10-1: INTRODUCTION:
Provision for a planned unit development by this chapter in no way guarantees a
property owner the right to exercise the provisions of the planned unit
development. Planned unit developments shall be approved by the planning
commission only if in its judgment the proposed planned unit development fully
meets the intent, purpose and requirements of this title. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-10-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the planned unit development is to allow diversification in the
relationship of the various uses and structures to their sites and to permit
more flexibility in the use of such sites. The application of planned unit
concepts is intended to encourage good neighborhood, housing or area design,
thus ensuring substantial compliance with the intent of the zoning regulations
and other provisions of this title related to the public health, safety and
general welfare, and at the same time securing the advantages of site planning
for residential and commercial use. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-10-3: DEFINITION:
"Planned unit development", for the purpose of this title, shall mean an
integrated design for development of residential and commercial uses, or a
combination of such uses, in which one or more of the regulations, other than
use regulations, of the zone in which the development is to be situated, is
waived or varied to allow flexibility and initiative in site and building
design and location, in accordance with an approved plan and imposed general
requirements as specified in this chapter. A planned unit development may be:
a) the development of compatible land uses arranged in such a way as to provide
desirable living environments that may include private and common open spaces
for recreation, circulation and/or aesthetic uses; b) the conservation or
development of desirable amenities not otherwise possible by typical
development standards; and c) the creation of areas for multiple use that are
of benefit to the community. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-10-4: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Planned unit development may be allowed by planning commission approval
in any zoning district where such is a permitted or conditional use. An
approved planned unit development shall consist of an official planned unit
development form, approved by the planning commission and signed by its
chairperson, and an approved site plan also signed by the chairperson of the
planning commission. Issuance of a planned unit development permit shall not be
granted unless the planned unit development meets the use limitations of the
zoning district in which it is to be located and meets the density and other
limitations of such zoning district.
   B.   Compliance with the regulations of this title in no sense excuses the
developer from the applicable requirements of any subdivision ordinance, except
as modifications thereof are specifically authorized in the approval of the
application for the planned unit development. The permit shall be considered in
two (2) parts: 1) preliminary approval subject to the public hearing
provisions; and 2) final approval based on construction drawings and
specifications in general accord with that granted preliminary approval. (Ord.,
6-8-1989)
10-10-5: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Size Of Parcel: No planned unit development shall be allowed on a
parcel of land containing less than one "net developable acre", as defined in
section
10-1-6 of this title.
   B.   Zoning Change May Be Required: A planned unit development which will
contain uses not permitted in the zoning district in which it is to be located
will require a change of zoning which shall be initiated by an application for
a zoning change, except that any residential use shall be considered as a
permitted use in a planned unit development which allows residential uses and
shall be governed by design and other requirements of the planned unit
development permit; provided further, that in single-family zones, not
including the FR zones, only single-family dwellings may be allowed in the
planned unit development. Hotels, motels, lodges, etc., shall not be considered
residential uses for the purpose of this chapter.
   C.   Ownership: The development may be in a single, partnership or corporate
ownership or under option to purchase by an individual or a corporate entity at
the time of application, or the application may be filed jointly by all owners
of the property. However, any action (approval, disapproval, postponement,
etc.) taken by the planning commission pursuant to this chapter shall be
unaffected by a change in ownership or membership of the applicant, regardless
of the type of entity. Any amendments to an approved plan for a planned unit
development must be considered by the planning commission and approved only if
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Arrangement Of Structures And Open Spaces: The planning commission
shall require such arrangements of structures and open spaces within the site
development plan as is necessary to assure that adjacent properties will not be
adversely affected, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Height and density of buildings and uses shall be arranged around
the boundaries of the planned unit development to be compatible with existing
adjacent developments or zones. However, unless conditions of the site so
warrant, buildings located on the periphery of the development shall be limited
to a maximum height of two (2) stories or thirty feet (30').
      2.   Lot area, lot width, yard and coverage requirements shall be
determined by approval of the site plan in conjunction with the specific zoning
regulations.
      3.   Under no circumstances will a developer or applicant be allowed to
construct more dwelling units on a parcel designated as a planned unit
development than would be allowed by the pertinent zoning regulations on said
parcel or tract were a planned unit development not requested.
   E.   Required Open Space: Preservation, maintenance and ownership of
required open space within the development shall be accomplished by:
      1.   A dedication of the land as a public park or parkway system; or
      2.   Granting to the town a permanent, open space easement on or over the
said private open spaces to guarantee that the open space remains perpetually
in recreational use, with ownership and maintenance being the responsibility of
the owner or an owners' association established with articles of association
and bylaws which are satisfactory to the town; or
      3.   Complying with the provisions of the condominium ownership act, Utah
Code Annotated title 53, chapter 8, as amended, which provides for the payment
of common expenses for the upkeep of the common area and facilities.
   F.   Landscaping And Screening: Landscaping, fencing and screening related
to the uses within the site and/or used as a means of integrating the proposed
development into its surroundings shall be planned and presented to the
planning commission for approval, together with other required plans for the
development.
   G.   Signs And Lighting: The size, location, design and nature of signs, if
any, and the intensity and direction of area lighting shall be detailed in the
application.
   H.   Grading And Drainage Plan: A grading and drainage plan shall be
submitted to the planning commission with the application. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-10-6: SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
The applicant shall submit a planned unit development site plan for the total
area within the proposed development. If the planned unit development is to be
developed on a phased basis, each phase shall be of such size, composition and
arrangement that its construction, marketing and operation is feasible as a
unit independent of any subsequent phases. Final approval shall be given only
to one phase at a time. The general site plan shall show, where pertinent:
   A.   The use or uses, dimensions, sketch elevations and locations of
proposed structures, as well as utility improvements.
   B.   The dimensions and locations of areas to be reserved and developed for
vehicular and pedestrian circulation, parking, public uses, such as schools and
playgrounds, landscaping and other open spaces.
   C.   Architectural drawings and sketches outlining the general design and
character of the proposed uses and the physical relationship of the uses.
   D.   Such other pertinent information, including, but not limited to,
residential density, lot coverage and open space characteristics, shall be
included as may be necessary to make a determination that the contemplated
arrangement of buildings and uses makes it desirable to apply regulations and
requirements differing from those ordinarily applicable under this title.
(Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-10-7: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
In carrying out the intent of this chapter, the planning commission shall
consider the following principles:
   A.   It is the intent of this chapter that site and building plans for a
planned unit development shall be prepared by a designer or team of designers
having professional competence in urban planning as proposed in the
application. The planning commission may require the applicant to engage such a
qualified designer or design team.
   B.   It is not the intent of this chapter that control of the design of a
planned unit development by the planning commission be so rigidly exercised
that individual initiative be stifled and substantial additional expense
incurred, rather, it is the intent of this chapter that the control exercised
by the planning commission be the minimum necessary to achieve the purpose of
this chapter.
   C.   The planning commission may approve or disapprove an application for a
planned unit development. In approving an application, the commission may
attach such conditions as it may deem necessary to secure compliance with the
purposes set forth in section
10-10-2 of this chapter. The action of the planning commission may be appealed
to the appeal authority. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code)
10-10-8: CONSTRUCTION LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Proceed According To Approval: Upon approval of a planned unit
development, construction shall proceed only in accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by the planning commission and in conformity with any
conditions attached by the planning commission to its approval.
   B.   Amendments Require Approval: Amendments to approved plans and
specifications for a planned unit development shall be made only if approved by
the planning commission and shown on the approved plans.
   C.   Issuance Of Permit: The building official or any other town department
shall not issue any permit for any proposed building, structure, activity or
use within the project unless such building, structure, activity or use is in
accordance with the approved development plan and any conditions imposed in
conjunction with its approval.
   D.   Certificate Of Occupancy: The building official shall issue a
certificate of occupancy for any building or structure upon its completion in
accordance with the approved development plan. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-10-9: PUBLIC HEARING:
Preliminary development plans, including site plans, buildings, open spaces,
parking, landscaping, pedestrian and traffic circulation, building elevations,
and general drainage and utility layout with topography, shall be submitted for
the purpose of public review. A public hearing shall be held after publication
of a notice of hearing in a public newspaper of general circulation in the area
concerned and by posting said notice in three (3) places in the town not less
than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of said hearing. Failure of property
owners to receive notice of said hearing shall in no way affect the validity of
the action taken. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-10-10: PERFORMANCE BOND:
At the request of the planning commission, it shall be required for a planned
unit development applicant to post a performance bond in an amount and of a
type as established by the planning commission. The purpose of this bond is to
ensure that the developer completes the on site, off site and utility
improvements in accordance with the plans and specifications which have been
approved by the planning commission and/or the town council. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
CHAPTER 11
SUBDIVISIONS 1
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose
10-11-2: Applicability
10-11-3: Presubmission Meeting
10-11-4: Application
10-11-5: Fees
10-11-6: Preliminary Plat
10-11-7: Town Review
10-11-8: Application Completion Time Line
10-11-9: Final Plat
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-1-5 of this code for outside agency approval requirements.
10-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is:
   A.   To promote the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of
the town.
   B.   To promote the efficient and orderly growth of the town.
   C.   To provide policies, procedures, requirements and standards for the
physical development of subdivisions of land, construction of improvements
within the town, including, but not limited to, the construction and
installation of roads, streets, curbs, gutters, drainage systems, water and
sewer systems, design standards for public facilities and utilities, accesses
to public rights of ways, and to establish fees and other charges for the
authorizing of a subdivision.
   D.   To ensure that public facilities are available to the site and will
have a sufficient capacity to serve a proposed subdivision.
   E.   To encourage the wise use and management of natural resources to
preserve the integrity, stability and aesthetics of the community. (Ord. 2009-
O-3, 6-18-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-O-9, 11-13-2024)
10-11-2: APPLICABILITY:
No person shall subdivide any parcel of land which is located wholly or in part
in the town except in compliance with this chapter. No person shall sell or
exchange or offer to sell or exchange any parcel of land which is any part of a
subdivision of a tract of land, nor offer for recording in the office of the
Salt Lake County recorder any deed conveying such parcel of land, or any
interest therein, unless such subdivision has been created pursuant to and in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. This chapter shall not apply to
any lot or lots forming a part of a subdivision created and recorded prior to
the effective date hereof. (Ord. 2009-O-3, 6-18-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-O-9)
10-11-3: PRESUBMISSION MEETING:
It is strongly recommended that the applicant for a subdivision schedule a
presubmission meeting with the Town Manager, or another representative of the
town designated by the Town Manager. Upon request from an applicant, the town
shall schedule a presubmission meeting within fifteen (15) business days of the
request.
   A.   The Town Manager or Town Manager's designee may extend an invitation to
the presubmission meeting to any servicing utility companies, the Salt Lake
County Health Department, the Utah Department of Transportation, the Unified
Fire Authority, and any other private or public body that has jurisdiction or
an interest in providing services to the subdivision.
   B.   At the presubmission meeting, the applicant may bring any materials to
assist the parties at the meeting in identifying the location of the potential
subdivision, the size and layout of the subdivision, and any potential problems
or challenges to creating the subdivision. The town shall have available or
provide access to: (1) copies of applicable land use regulations; (2) a
complete list of standards required for the project; (3) preliminary and final
subdivision application checklists; and (4) feedback on the presubmission
plans.
   C.   Due to the unique terrain of the real property within the town, the
Town Manager or Town Manager's designee may require that the applicant submit
additional information, as set forth in subsection
10-11-4B3f of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-O-3, 6-18-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-
10-2021; Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023; Ord. 2024-O-9, 11-13-2024)
10-11-4: APPLICATION:
   A.   The applicant for a subdivision shall prepare and submit a preliminary
plat application to the Town Manager or Town Manager's designee. The
application shall include three (3) copies of a complete preliminary plat and
three (3) completed application forms for the subdivision, including all
required maps and charts. All application materials shall be submitted at the
same time in order to be considered for completeness.
   B.   Application Form and Content: The town administration may create a
preliminary plat application form based upon the requirements of this section.
A complete application shall include all of the following information:
      1.   Property Information: The date of the application, the name,
address, phone number, e-mail address, and signature of the applicant and the
owner of the property, the current zoning of the property, the location and
address of the proposed subdivision, the total acreage of the subdivision, and
the number of proposed lots. All persons with a fee interest in the property
shall sign the subdivision application form. The applicant shall submit a
preliminary title report for all property within the application.
      2.   Site Information: The following subdivision site information is
required for a complete application and shall be provided at the same scale as
the preliminary subdivision plat, on separate sheets if necessary:
         a.   The identification of known and potential natural features on a
map, including, but not limited to, jurisdictional wetlands as identified by
the U.S. army corps of engineers, known or potential natural Waterways, Top of
Bank, and any potential natural hazards, including avalanche paths,
liquefaction areas, and areas of soil instability, and all on site vegetation
regulated by town ordinance. A final map identifying known and potential
natural features as described in this section and identified by the building
official will be reviewed and approved or denied by the planning commission as
part of the application review process.
         b.   The location and dimensions of all existing buildings, fence
lines and property lines, overlaid on the proposed subdivision layout, and the
location of surrounding manmade features and improvements, including buildings
and roads, and natural features, including significant landmarks and geologic
features.
      3.   Evidence Of Availability Of Necessary Services: The following
information is necessary to establish the availability of basic services to the
proposed subdivision and the preliminary plat subdivision application is
complete only when all basic services are available to the site and to each
proposed subdivision lot, and approved in writing by the designated authority:
         a.   Culinary Water Requirements: Salt Lake City department of public
utilities, water division, Salt Lake Valley health department, and the Town
Manager or Town Manager's designee, are hereby designated collectively as the
"culinary water authority", as further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10,
chapter 9a, as amended or replaced. Such culinary water authority shall
evaluate and approve the proposed culinary water system for the subdivision.
The applicant shall provide all information required by the culinary water
authority (and other applicable agency described below, if any), including, but
not limited to, evidence of the source, quantity, quality and means of delivery
of the proposed culinary water to the proposed subdivision and each proposed
lot. Certain property within the town boundaries may not be eligible to be
served by the town culinary water system or able to be supplied water through
the town contract for water with Salt Lake City, and shall be required to
obtain approval from any additional public or private agency with jurisdiction
over the proposed water source or delivery system. The requirements of the
State Division of Drinking Water must be satisfied and Division approval, where
required, shall be obtained by the applicant before a final plat is approved.
         b.   Wastewater Requirements: Salt Lake Valley health department,
environmental health division, Salt Lake County service area no. 3, Cottonwood
improvement district, and the Town Manager or Town Manager's designee, are
hereby designated collectively as the "sanitary sewer authority", as further
defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as amended or replaced.
Each sanitary sewer authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed sanitary
sewer system. The applicant shall provide all information and materials as
required by the sanitary sewer authority.
         c.   Fire And Emergency Requirements: The Unified Fire Authority is
hereby designated as the "fire authority", as further defined in Utah Code
Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as amended or replaced. The fire authority
shall evaluate and approve the proposed fire suppression infrastructure and
emergency access to the proposed subdivision. If the proposed subdivision does
not include year round motor vehicle (as defined by Utah Code Annotated) access
to all proposed lots and proposed and existing roads, streets and adjacent
properties, the application shall include an emergency access mitigation plan,
approved by the fire authority and the town. The applicant shall provide all
information and materials as required by the fire authority.
         d.   Subdivision Roads And Streets: All proposed subdivision streets
shall be evaluated and approved by the Town Manager or Town Manager's designee,
and if appropriate, the Utah Department of Transportation. The proposed street
layout shall provide adequate and safe year-round access to all proposed lots
and proposed and existing roads, streets and adjacent properties. If the
proposed subdivision does not include year-round motor vehicle (as defined by
Utah Code Annotated) access to all proposed lots and proposed and existing
roads, streets and adjacent properties, the application shall include a parking
and access mitigation plan. If the proposed subdivision will be accessed from a
state highway, an appropriate access permit as required by the state department
of transportation, shall be provided with the application materials in order to
be a complete application. If the proposed subdivision will be accessed from
U.S. Forest Service property, the applicant shall provide any appropriate
access or special use permits as required by the U.S. Forest Service with the
application materials in order to be a complete application.
         e.   Avalanche Hazards: The town marshal department shall evaluate and
approve the subdivision application provisions for avalanche safety and
interlodge controls. The application shall include maps and descriptions of
known avalanche slide paths and shall include a proposed plat note describing
the risks of building in an avalanche zone and an acknowledgment limiting the
town liability for hazards associated with avalanches. A final map identifying
known avalanche slide paths shall be certified by a qualified avalanche expert
and will be reviewed and approved or denied by the planning commission as part
of the application review process. The proposed plat note shall further
acknowledge the responsibility of any landowner within the subdivision to
comply with the town interlodge procedures and avalanche design and
construction requirements, and the applicant and current landowner agreement to
sign and record the town avalanche hold harmless agreement concurrently with
the recordation of the plat.
         f.   Additional Information And Materials When Necessary: When the
Town Manager or Town Manager's designee deems necessary due to the
characteristics of the property to be subdivided, the applicant may be required
to provide other information or letters of feasibility from other agencies with
jurisdiction over the property to be subdivided, conduct studies, and provide
evidence indicating the suitability of the area for the proposed subdivision,
including, but not limited to, adequacy of public safety and fire protection,
geologic or flood hazard, erosion control, preservation of vegetation, and any
other physical or environmental matters in conformance with the town zoning
ordinances. Such additional requirements shall be made of the applicant at the
presubmission meeting, or reasonably soon thereafter. (Ord. 2009-O-3, 6-18-
2009; amd. Ord. 2021-O-1, 3-10-2021; Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
         g.   Notice: The applicant shall provide the town with two (2) sets of
typewritten address labels and sufficient funds to cover related postage costs
to all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of
the proposed subdivision and all affected entities. (Ord. 2024-O-9, 11-13-2024)
10-11-5: FEES:
   A.   Application Fees: To be considered complete, the application for
preliminary plat subdivision approval and a final plat subdivision approval
shall be accompanied by all fees established on the town fee schedule.
   B.   Technical Expertise And Engineering Fees: The applicant shall pay all
expenses of reviewing and approving the subdivision, including the town fees
for hiring individuals with technical expertise, legal counsel and engineers to
review the application. (Ord. 2009-O-3, 6-18-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-O-9, 11-13-
2024)
10-11-6: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Preliminary Plat: The Administrative Land Use Authority for the
approval of a preliminary plat application shall be the planning commission.
The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a licensed surveyor, and shall
include the name and address of the surveyor responsible for preparing the
preliminary plat, and shall include a certification that the surveyor holds a
license in accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 58, chapter 22, as amended
or replaced, and has completed a survey of the property in accordance with Utah
Code Annotated section 17-23-17, as amended or replaced. The preliminary plat
shall describe or specify:
      1.   A name or designation of the subdivision that is distinct from any
plat already recorded in the county recorder's office;
      2.   North arrow, graphic and written scale, legend, basis of bearings
used, and a vicinity map of the site;
      3.   The legal description of the entire subdivision site boundary;
      4.   The boundaries, course and dimensions, and acreage or square footage
for all parcels of ground divided, whether the owner proposes that any parcel
or ground is intended to be used as a street or for any other public use, and
whether any such area is reserved or proposed for dedication for a public
purpose;
      5.   For all parcels, the proposed lot or unit reference, block or
building reference, street or site address, street name or coordinate address
(to be approved by the planning commission as part of the application review
process);
      6.   Every existing right of way and easement grant of record for
underground facilities and for all other utility facilities;
      7.   The anticipated net developable acreage for each lot;
      8.   The names and addresses of the applicant and owner of the property,
the engineer or surveyor of the subdivision and the owners of the land
immediately adjoining the land to be subdivided and within three hundred feet
(300') of the boundaries of the proposed subdivision. (Ord. 2024-O-9, 11-13-
2024)
10-11-7: TOWN REVIEW:
   A.   Determination Of Completeness Of Application: After receipt of an
application, the Town Manager or Town Manager's designee shall determine
whether the application is complete. An application for subdivision is only
complete when it includes all information and approvals listed in this chapter.
If the Town Manager or Town Manager's designee determines that the application
is not complete, the Town Manager or Town Manager's designee shall notify the
applicant in writing, specifying the deficiencies of the application, including
any additional information which must be supplied. No further action will be
taken by the town until the deficiencies are corrected.
   B.   1.   Following a determination that the application is complete, the
application shall be reviewed by town staff for compliance with the town's
Ordinances, Rules and Regulations. Review by staff shall be completed within
forty (40) business days of receipt of the application. After staff review, the
application shall be placed on the next available planning commission regular
meeting agenda for review.
      2.   The planning commission shall hold a public hearing on the
Preliminary Subdivision application. Notice of the public hearing shall be sent
to the record owner of each parcel within five hundred feet (500') of the
property that is the subject of the application and shall be posted and
provided as a Class B notice in accordance with provisions of Utah Code Ann.
§63G-30-102.
      3.   The planning commission shall approve a preliminary plat if the
proposed subdivision and the associated improvement drawings are in compliance
with the town's ordinances and requirements. (Ord. 2024-O-9, 11-13-2024)
10-11-8: APPLICATION COMPLETION TIME LINE:
   A.   Remedy Of Deficiencies: The applicant shall correct all specified
deficiencies within forty (40) days of the written notification of such
deficiencies. If the applicant fails to correct the specified deficiencies
within a ninety (90) day period, the application for subdivision shall be
deemed withdrawn and will be returned to the applicant. Application fees shall
not be refunded. Any further submissions shall be considered only as part of a
new application.
   B.   Extensions Of Time: The Town Manager or Town Manager's designee, upon
written request from the applicant, may grant the applicant one (1) automatic
thirty (30) day extension to correct the specified deficiencies. (Ord. 2009-O-
3, 6-18-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023; Ord. 2024-O-9, 11-13-2024)
10-11-9: FINAL PLAT:
The Administrative Land Use Authority for approval of a final plat application
shall be the Town Manager. Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the
planning commission, an applicant shall submit a final plat, in recordable
form, to the town for its review and approval. The submitted final plat shall
be consistent with all provisions and conditions of the preliminary plat. With
the final plat, the applicant shall submit: (1) an updated Preliminary Title
Report issued within thirty (30) days of the final plat application showing
evidence of ownership for all parcels within the plat satisfactory in form to
the town attorney; and (2) any assurance for the installation of public
improvements as required by town ordinance. The Town Manager shall review a
complete final plat submittal within thirty (30) business days of receipt of
the application by the town and shall approve the final plat if it is
consistent with the approved preliminary plat and any conditions of approval.
(Ord. 2024-O-9, 11-13-2024)
CHAPTER 12
OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Purpose
10-12-2: Off Street Parking Required
10-12-3: Size Of Parking Spaces
10-12-4: Number Of Spaces Required
10-12-5: Access Requirements
10-12-6: Maintenance And Development Of Parking Areas
10-12-7: Special Requirements
10-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to reduce street congestion and traffic hazards
in the town by incorporating adequate, attractively designed facilities for off
street parking and loading as an integral part of every use of land in the
town. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-12-2: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIRED:
There shall be provided at the time any building or structure is erected or
enlarged or increased in capacity, or any use is established, off street
parking spaces for automobiles in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter. Except as defined in subsection B of this section, all required
parking spaces shall be provided on the lot on which the building or structure
is proposed to be erected.
   A.   Documents Required To Obtain Building Permit: In addition to the
documents required by other chapters of this title, all applications for a
building permit shall be accompanied by a site plan showing the arrangement,
size and number of the required parking spaces, as well as ingress and egress
arrangements. Said plan shall be reviewed by the technical review committee and
approved by the building official.
   B.   Alternatives To On Site Parking: The required off street parking for
any new use, structure or building which, due to the size or location of the
parcel, cannot be provided on the premises, may be provided on other property
not more than five hundred feet (500') distance from the building site measured
along the shortest available pedestrian route of access. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-12-3: SIZE OF PARKING SPACES:
Each off street parking space shall be at least nine feet (9') wide by twenty
feet (20') in length for diagonal or ninety degree (90°) parking, and at least
eight feet (8') wide by twenty two feet (22') in length for parallel parking
spaces, exclusive of access drives or aisles. The length of ninety degree (90°)
parking spaces within a parking structure may be eighteen feet (18'). Access to
parking spaces shall be from private roadways and not from public streets.
(Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-12-4: NUMBER OF SPACES REQUIRED:
   A.   Required Number: The number of off street parking spaces required shall
be as follows:
                                        3 spaces for each 100 square feet of
Assembly halls, exhibition halls, and   gross floor area of the spaces so used.
conference halls or rooms without fixed This number is subject to the review
seats                                   and approval of the planning
                                        commission.
Assembly halls, exhibition halls,       1 space for each 3.5 seats of maximum
theaters, auditoriums, or meeting rooms seating capacity.
with fixed seating
Dormitory building                      1 space for each tenant.
Dwellings, multiple                     2 spaces for each swelling unit.
                                        2 spaces for each dwelling unit. For
Dwellings, single-family                single- family dwellings, the spaces
                                        may be arranged one behind the other.
                                        1 legal overnight space for each 8
                                        "guestrooms", as defined in section
                                        10-6D-3 of this title. 1/2 space for
Hotels and motels                       every 1 employee living accommodation
                                        required pursuant to section
                                        10-6D-7 of this title, rounded up to
                                        the nearest whole number.
Lodging house                           1 space for each tenant.
                                        1 space for each 2.5 seats or 3 spaces
Restaurants and nonprofit clubs         per 100 square feet of gross floor
                                        area, whichever is greater.
Retail stores and shops                 1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        retail space gross floor area.
Service and maintenance shops and       1 space for each person employed during
centers, communication equipment        the highest employment shift.
buildings
 
(Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. Ord. 2008-O-6, 6-12-2008)
   B.   Number Of Parking Spaces For Uses Not Specified: For any use of a
building or structure not specified herein, the off street parking requirements
shall be determined by the planning commission, being guided where appropriate
by the requirements set forth herein for uses or buildings which, in the
opinion of the planning commission, are similar to the use or building under
consideration.
   C.   Calculation Of Number Of Required Spaces: For all uses, the required
number of spaces required will be calculated in accordance with the above
stated criteria for the particular use, and the total number of spaces required
shall be rounded to the next larger whole number should the result of the first
calculation be a fraction. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-12-5: ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
Adequate ingress and egress to required parking spaces for all uses shall be
provided to allow orderly and safe circulation for public, service and
emergency vehicle use, as well as pedestrian access to, from and within parking
areas. Emergency vehicle access and turnaround arrangements should be designed
in accordance with the criteria of the unified fire authority and the final
design must be approved by said unified fire authority. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd.
2010 Code)
10-12-6: MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT OF PARKING AREAS:
Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private parking area shall
be developed and maintained in accordance with the following:
   A.   Surfacing: Surfaces for parking and access drives may be asphaltic
concrete, concrete or compacted engineered road base as appropriate for the
particular use. The grading of surfaces shall allow the disposal of surface
water. The proposed design of parking, walks, access drives and other hard
surface areas, including the accumulation, handling and disposition of surface
water, shall be approved by the water quality division of the Salt Lake Valley
health department and the technical review committee. A letter of approval from
said department shall be obtained and submitted with an application for any
building permit. The final design shall be approved by the planning commission
acting on the recommendation of the technical review committee.
   B.   Screening: The perimeters of parking areas shall be screened from
adjacent uses by plant material, grading or other natural methods to minimize
the visual impact from both the adjacent use and the public roads. The final
design shall be approved by the planning commission acting on the
recommendation of the technical review committee.
   C.   Lighting: The lighting of parking areas shall be so designed to allow
the safe use of facilities by both vehicles and pedestrians at all times.
Parking area lighting shall not direct or reflect light to adjacent uses or
roads. The final design, including the selection of lighting fixtures, shall be
approved by the planning commission acting on the recommendation of the
technical review committee. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-12-7: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location Of Gasoline And LPG Tanks: The location, arrangement,
installation and aboveground facilities of all gasoline and liquefied petroleum
gas tanks shall be as directed by the unified fire authority. (Ord., 6-8-1989;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Off Street Loading Facilities: For every building or part thereof, not
provided with docking facilities and having a gross floor area of ten thousand
(10,000) square feet or more, and which is to be occupied by a commercial use,
to or from which delivery of materials or merchandise is regularly made by
motor vehicle, there shall be provided and maintained on the same lot with such
building, at least one off street loading space, plus one additional off street
loading space for each additional twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of gross
floor area or major fraction thereof. Each loading space shall be at least ten
feet (10') wide by twenty five feet (25') in length and fourteen feet (14')
clear in height. Such loading space may occupy any required yard or court.
Development and maintenance of loading spaces shall be in accordance with the
requirements of section
10-12-6 of this chapter.
   C.   Off Site Improvements: Connection of access drives or roads with public
roads shall be done in accordance with the requirements of the state department
of transportation. A letter of approval for all such work shall be obtained
from said department and submitted with an application for a building permit
for any project where connection to a public road is required. Permits for all
such work shall be obtained from and all required bonds posted with said
department prior to the start of any construction activity whatsoever on any
project where connection to a public road is required. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
CHAPTER 13
SIGN REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose
10-13-2: Interpretation
10-13-3: Exceptions
10-13-4: Definitions
10-13-5: Signs To Conform
10-13-6: Permit Requirements
10-13-7: Legal Action
10-13-8: Signs Not To Constitute Traffic Hazard
10-13-9: Clear View Of Public Streets
10-13-10: Signs On Public Property
10-13-11: Prohibited Signs
10-13-12: Maintenance Of And Abandonment Of Signs
10-13-13: Lighted Signs
10-13-14: Sizes Allowed By Zone
10-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is to eliminate excessive and confusing sign
displays that create potential hazards to motorists, pedestrians and property,
and also to maintain a responsible communication system by setting requirements
for the location, size, height and lighting of signs that will be compatible
with the architecture and landscape of the town. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-13-2: INTERPRETATION:
The sign requirements contained herein are declared to be the maximum
allowable, and sign types not specifically allowed as set forth within this
chapter shall be prohibited. Where other ordinances are in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, the most restrictive ordinance shall apply. (Ord.,
6-8-1989)
10-13-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The following signs are not regulated by this chapter:
   A.   On premises advertising signs that are attached to windows or walls and
are clearly of a temporary nature, which promote specific sales.
   B.   Signs which are associated with public, school or church events and
functions, which are clearly of a temporary nature.
   C.   Interior signs.
   D.   Devices that display only the time and temperature. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-13-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions specifically apply to the requirements of this
chapter:
A-FRAME SIGN: A temporary and/or moveable sign constructed with two (2) sides
attached at the top so as to allow the sign to stand in an upright position.
ADVERTISING SIGN: An off premises sign.
ALTERATION: A change or rearrangement in the structural parts or design whether
by extending on a side, by increasing in area or height, or by relocating or
change in position.
ANIMATED SIGN: A sign which includes motion or rotation of any part by
mechanical or artificial means, or subdued color changes.
BALLOON SIGN: An advertisement supported by a balloon anchored to the premises
where the advertised use is conducted, product or commodity sold, service
performed, or business name is located.
BILLBOARD SIGN: An off premises advertising sign.
BUSINESS SIGN: An on premises sign.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A sign identifying an existing or proposed development
project which may contain the name of the project, name and address of
construction firms, architects, engineers, developers, etc.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER: A mechanism or device which uses a combination of
lights or lighted panels which are controlled electrically and/or
electronically to produce words, symbols or messages which may flash, travel or
scintillate within a given panel area.
FLAT SIGN: A sign erected parallel to and attached to the outside wall of a
building and extending not more that twenty four inches (24") from such wall,
with messages or copy on the outside face only.
FLOODLIGHTED SIGN: A sign made legible in the absence of daylight by devices
which reflect or project light upon it.
GROUND SIGN: A sign supported by a fixed permanent frame support in the ground.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs or
outlines illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes.
INTERIOR SIGN: A sign located within a building so as to be visible only from
within the building in which the sign is located.
MOBILE CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign mounted on a trailer or frame, lighted or
unlighted, with changeable lettering.
MONUMENT SIGN: A sign which is incorporated into the landscape or architectural
design scheme and displaying the name of uses or buildings.
NAMEPLATE SIGN: A sign indicating the name and/or occupation of a person
legally occupying the premises or indicating a legal home occupation thereon.
NONCONFORMING SIGN OR SIGN STRUCTURE: A sign or sign structure or portion
thereof lawfully existing on the effective date of this title which does not
conform to all height, area, yard spacing, animation, lighting or other
regulations prescribed for the zone in which it is located.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: An advertising sign which directs attention to a use,
product, commodity or service not related to the premises on which the sign is
located.
ON PREMISES SIGN: A sign directing attention to a use conducted, product or
commodity sold, service performed or business name upon the premises on which
it is located.
OVERHANGING SIGN: A sign which projects twelve inches (12") or more over the
roof of a building.
PEDESTAL SIGN: A temporary and/or moveable sign supported by a column or
columns and a base so as to allow the sign to stand in an upright position.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign attached to a building or canopy and extending, in
whole or in part, more than twenty four inches (24") beyond any wall of the
building or canopy.
PROMOTIONAL BOARD SIGN: A permanently attached changeable copy sign not
exceeding twenty (20) square feet per face, with one or two (2) faces back to
back for the display of promotional items offered for sale on the premises.
PROPERTY SIGN: A sign related to the property upon which it is located and
offering such information as address, name of occupant for residential uses,
sale or lease of the property, warning against trespassing, any hazard, or
other danger on the property.
ROOF SIGN: A sign which is erected partly or wholly on the roof of a building.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a sign structure having main supports embedded
in the ground shall not be considered to be a roof sign even if the sign
supports pass through a roof, canopy or parapet of a building.
SERVICE SIGN: A sign that is incidental to use lawfully occupying the property
upon which the sign is located and which sign is necessary to provide
information to the public, such as direction to parking lots, location of
restrooms, entrance and exits, etc. A service sign shall also include signs
providing information about sale of agricultural products produced upon the
premises.
SIGN: Shall mean and include every advertising message, announcement,
declaration, demonstration, display, illustration, insignia, surface or space
erected or maintained in view of the observer thereof for identification,
advertisement or promotion of the interests of any person, entity, product or
service. "Sign" shall also include the sign structure supports, lighting system
and any attachments, ornaments or other features used to draw the attention of
observers.
SIGN AREA: The area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding the
minimum frame and supports. In computing sign area, only one side of a back to
back or double faced sign shall be computed when signs are parallel or diverge
from a common edge by an angle of not more than forty five degrees (45°). For
signs that do not have a frame or a separate background, "sign area" shall be
computed on the basis of the least rectangle, triangle or circle large enough
to frame the display. Sign areas in the shape of a sphere, prism, cylinder,
cone, pyramid, cube or other such shapes shall be computed as one-half (1/2)
the total surface area.
SIGN MAINTENANCE: Signs shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and good
condition, including the replacement of defective parts, repainting, cleaning
and other acts required for the maintenance of said sign.
SIGN SETBACK: The minimum distance that any portion of a sign or sign structure
shall be from any street right of way line and yard line coterminous with a
street.
SIGN STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected supporting a sign which
requires location on or below the ground or attached to something having
location on or below the ground.
SNIPE SIGN: A sign which is attached to a public utility pole or to the
supports for another sign.
TEMPORARY SIGN: As regulated by this title, shall include any sign, banner,
pennant, valance or advertising display constructed of paper, cloth, canvas,
light fabric, cardboard, wallboard or other light materials, with or without
frames, intended to be displayed out of doors for a short period of time.
TIME AND TEMPERATURE DEVICE: Any mechanism that displays the time and/or
temperature, but does not display any commercial advertising or identification.
WALL SIGN: A sign that is either painted on a wall or its facing, by not having
a sign frame or separation from the wall or facing.
WINDOW SIGN: A sign permanently attached and located within a building so as to
be visible through a window or door outside the building. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-13-5: SIGNS TO CONFORM:
Except as provided in this title:
   A.   A sign shall not be erected, raised, moved, placed, reconstructed,
extended, enlarged or altered unless in conformity with the regulations herein
specified.
   B.   A nonconforming sign shall not be reconstructed, raised, moved, placed,
extended or enlarged unless said sign is changed so as to conform to all
provisions of this title. Alterations shall also mean the changing of the text
or message that the sign is conveying from one use of the premises to another
use of the premises and the changing of the ownership of the sign when that
ownership necessitates a change in the text or message of the sign. Any
alterations to a nonconforming sign will require the approval of the planning
commission. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-13-6: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Except for property signs, political signs and nameplates conforming to the
definitions and provisions of this chapter, no sign may be erected without a
permit. Signs greater than thirty two (32) square feet of area will require
approval of the planning commission before a permit may be issued. Permits will
be issued by the building official and complete documentation describing the
proposed work will be required. Fees for sign permits are as established by
resolution of the town council. (Ord., 6-8-1989; amd. 2010 Code)
10-13-7: LEGAL ACTION:
   A.   Authorized: The town council or town attorney shall be empowered to
institute any appropriate action or proceeding in any case where any sign is
erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or
maintained, or in any case where any sign is used in violation of any town
ordinance, to accomplish the following purposes:
      1.   To prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use.
      2.   To restrain, to correct or abate such violation.
      3.   To abate and remove unsafe or dangerous signs. If an unsafe or
dangerous sign is not repaired or made safe within ten (10) working days after
giving notice as provided in subsection B of this section, the building
official may at once abate and remove said sign, and the person having charge,
control or benefit of any such sign shall pay to the town the costs incurred in
such removal within thirty (30) calendar days after written notice of the costs
is mailed to such person.
   B.   Notice: Notice by the town shall mean written notice sent by certified
mail to persons having charge or control or benefit of any sign found by the
building official to be unsafe. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-13-8: SIGNS NOT TO CONSTITUTE TRAFFIC HAZARD:
Signs or other advertising structures shall not be erected at the intersection
of any streets or driveways in such manner as to obstruct free and clear
vision; or at any location where by reason of the position, shape or color, it
may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign or signal device, or make use of the words "stop", "drive in",
"danger", or any other words, phrases, symbols or characters in such a manner
as to interfere with, mislead or confuse vehicle operators. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-13-9: CLEAR VIEW OF PUBLIC STREETS:
There shall be a minimum clearance of eight feet (8') between the ground and
any part of a projecting sign or ground sign, as measured from the grade of the
intersecting streets which are located within the clear view of an
intersection. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-13-10: SIGNS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No sign shall be located on publicly owned land or inside street rights of way,
except signs required and/or erected by permission of the appropriate public
agency. Signs shall include, but not be limited to, handbills, posters,
advertisements or notices that are fastened, placed, posted, painted or
attached in any way upon any curbstone, lamppost, telephone pole, telegraph
pole, electric light or power pole, hydrant, bridge, tree, rock, sidewalk or
street. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-13-11: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
Signs not specifically allowed by this chapter are prohibited. The following
signs are specifically prohibited: A-frame, snipe, pedestal, animated, balloon,
flashing, mobile changeable copy, promotional board and electronic message
center. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-13-12: MAINTENANCE OF AND ABANDONMENT OF SIGNS:
   A.   Maintenance Required: All signs and advertising structures shall be
maintained in good condition.
   B.   Removal Of Obsolete Signs: Signs relating to a product no longer
available for purchase, or to a business which has moved, shall be removed or
the advertising copy removed within thirty (30) days of such unavailability,
closure or relocation. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-13-13: LIGHTED SIGNS:
   A.   A lighted sign shall not be installed which permits the light to
penetrate beyond the property in such a manner as to annoy or interfere with
the use of adjacent properties.
   B.   Such lights alleged to violate the above by the adjacent property
owners or building official shall be subject to a public hearing before the
planning commission as to the validity of the alleged violation. If such light
is determined to be in violation, the owner of said light shall take
appropriate corrective action as directed. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
10-13-14: SIGNS ALLOWED BY ZONE:
The following signs shall be allowed in all zones, provided they comply with
the given restrictions:
   A.   Construction signs: Maximum size of thirty two (32) square feet; a
maximum height of twelve feet (12'); located on private property; must be
removed within one month from the date of issuance of the final certificate of
occupancy.
   B.   Construction signs for subdivisions: Maximum size of thirty two (32)
square feet; a maximum height of twelve feet (12'); located on private
property; must be approved by the planning commission for a period not to
exceed one year, which may be renewed by the planning commission upon
application which must be received at least thirty (30) days prior to the
previous approval's expiration date.
   C.   Nameplates: Maximum size of three (3) square feet; must be attached to
main structure.
   D.   Political signs: Maximum size of sixteen (16) square feet; a maximum
height of six feet (6'); located on private property not closer than ten feet
(10') to any driveway; must be removed within fifteen (15) days following the
final voting date.
   E.   Property signs: Maximum size of six (6) square feet; a maximum height
of six feet (6'); located on private property. (Ord., 6-8-1989)
CHAPTER 14
LAND USE APPLICATION AND APPROVAL
SECTION:
10-14-1: Purpose
10-14-2: Applicability
10-14-3: Presubmission Meeting
10-14-4: Application And Conceptual Plan/Preliminary Plat
10-14-5: Conceptual Plan And Application Completeness
10-14-6: Submission
10-14-7: Review
10-14-8: Final Approval Or Denial; Additional Submissions
10-14-9: Public Notice To Be Posted
10-14-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   To promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of
the town of Alta (the "town").
   B.   To provide the efficient and orderly growth of the town.
   C.   To provide policies, procedures, requirements, and standards for the
physical development of land within the town.
   D.   To create a uniform land use application process for any land use
development within the town (other than a subdivision) that requires land use
authority review and approval.
   E.   To require public notice to residents, property owners, and other
members of the Alta community of land use applications, in order to help them
to be informed of proposed land use changes. (Ord. 2011-O-5, 11-10-2011)
10-14-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This chapter applies to:
      1.   Conditional uses;
      2.   Planned unit developments;
      3.   Any other land use application within the town (excluding
subdivisions). (Ord. 2011-O-5, 11-10-2011)
10-14-3: PRESUBMISSION MEETING:
Any land use applicant under this chapter shall schedule a presubmission
meeting with the town manager. Reference herein to the town manager shall mean
to the town manager or another representative of the town designated by the
town manager, if any.
   A.   The town manager may extend an invitation to the presubmission meeting
to any servicing utility companies, the Salt Lake Valley health department, the
Utah department of transportation, the unified fire authority, and any other
private or public body that has jurisdiction or an interest in providing
services to the potential land use.
   B.   At the presubmission meeting, the applicant may bring any materials to
assist the parties at the meeting in identifying the location of the subject
property, the potential land use, the size and layout of the potential
improvements or development, and any potential problems or challenges to
developing the subject property.
   C.   Due to the unique terrain of the real property within the town, the
town manager may require that the applicant submit additional information.
(Ord. 2011-O-5, 11-10-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
10-14-4: APPLICATION AND CONCEPTUAL PLAN/PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   At any time after the presubmission meeting, a land use applicant shall
submit an application as described below and all additional information as
required by this section. All application materials shall be submitted at the
same time in order to be considered for completeness.
   B.   The following shall be submitted to the town manager, unless waived by
the town manager as not applicable:
      1.   Complete Application And Fees: A complete application form for the
proposed land use and all applicable fees.
      2.   Application Fees And Technical Expertise And Engineering Fees: To be
considered complete, the application for the land use shall be accompanied by
all fees established on the town's fee schedule. The applicant shall pay all
expenses of reviewing and approving the land use, if any, including the town's
fees for hiring individuals with technical expertise, legal counsel, and
engineers to review the application.
      3.   Application Information And Materials: A complete application shall
include the following information and materials:
         a.   Sketch/Site Plan Drawing: A scaled sketch/site plan drawing of
the proposed development site. At a minimum, the site plan shall include the
following:
            (1)   North arrow;
            (2)   Name of proposed development or land use, if applicable;
            (3)   Name, phone number, and address of applicant/developer;
            (4)   Name, phone number, and address of property owner;
            (5)   Drawing of proposed improvements, including buildings,
driveways, roads, and parking, and existing vegetation and slopes;
         b.   Vicinity Map: A vicinity map containing sufficient information to
accurately locate the property shown on the plan;
         c.   Property Information: Property information, including address,
zoning, acreage, and location of proposed lots or buildings within the proposed
land use; and
         d.   Site Information: Site information, including property lines,
fence lines, natural features, natural hazards, and avalanche hazards.
         e.   Evidence Of Availability Of Necessary Services: The following
information is necessary to establish the availability of basic services to the
proposed land use. The land use application is complete only when the applicant
has submitted evidence that all basic services are available to the site (and
if applicable, to each proposed lot), and the proposed land use has been
approved in writing by the designated authority.
            (1)   Culinary Water Requirements: Salt Lake City department of
public utilities, water division, Salt Lake Valley health department, and the
town manager, are hereby designated collectively as the "culinary water
authority", as further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, section 9a, as
amended or replaced. Each culinary water authority shall evaluate and approve
the proposed culinary water system for the land use. The applicant shall
provide all information required by the culinary water authority, including,
but not limited to, evidence of the source, quantity, quality, and means of
delivery of the proposed culinary water to the proposed land use, and if
applicable, to each proposed lot. Certain property within the town boundaries
may not be eligible to be served by the town culinary water system or able to
be supplied water through the town's contract for water with Salt Lake City,
and shall be required to obtain approval from any additional public or private
agency with jurisdiction over the proposed water source or delivery system,
prior to the land use application being deemed complete.
         (2)   Wastewater Requirements: Salt Lake Valley health department,
environmental health division, Salt Lake County service area no. 3, Cottonwood
improvement district, and the town manager, are hereby designated collectively
as the "sanitary sewer authority", as further defined in Utah Code Annotated
title 10, section 9a, as amended or replaced. Each sanitary sewer authority
shall evaluate and approve the proposed sanitary sewer system. The applicant
shall provide all information and materials as required by the sanitary sewer
authority.
         (3)   Fire And Emergency Requirements: The unified fire authority is
hereby designated as the "fire authority", as further defined in Utah Code
Annotated title 10, section 9a, as amended or replaced. The fire authority
shall evaluate and approve the proposed fire suppression infrastructure and
emergency access to the land use, and if applicable, to each proposed lot. If
the proposed land use does not include year round motor vehicle (as defined by
the Utah code) access to all proposed lots and proposed and existing roads,
streets, and adjacent properties, the application shall include an emergency
access mitigation plan, approved by the fire authority and the town. The
applicant shall provide all information and materials as required by the fire
authority.
         (4)   Avalanche Hazards: The town marshal's department shall evaluate
and approve the land use application's provisions for avalanche safety and
interlodge controls. The application shall include maps and descriptions of
known avalanche slide paths and, if applicable, shall include a proposed plat
note describing the risks of building in an avalanche zone and an
acknowledgment limiting the town's liability for hazards associated with
avalanches. The proposed plat note shall further acknowledge the responsibility
of any landowner within the land use to comply with the town's interlodge
procedures and avalanche design and construction requirements, and the
applicant's and current landowner's agreement to sign and record the town's
avalanche hold harmless agreement concurrently with the recordation of the
plat. In all proposed land uses (including those where a plat is not required),
it shall be a condition of the respective approval or permit to require that
every landowner within the proposed development comply with the town's
interlodge procedures and avalanche design and construction requirements, and
each applicant and landowner shall sign and record the town's avalanche hold
harmless agreement concurrently with the issuance of the relevant approval or
permit. Other requirements may be imposed on any particular building or project
to address or mitigate potential avalanche hazards. (Ord. 2011-O-5, 11-10-2011;
amd. Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
10-14-5: CONCEPTUAL PLAN AND APPLICATION COMPLETENESS:
   A.   Determination Of Completeness: Upon receipt of the application form,
information and fees required in section
10-14-4 of this chapter, the town manager shall determine whether the
application is complete. A land use application is only complete if it includes
all required materials listed in section
10-14-4 of this chapter. If the town manager determines that the application is
not complete, the town manager shall notify the applicant in writing,
specifying the deficiencies of the application, including any additional
information which must be supplied. No further action will be taken on the
application by the town until the deficiencies are corrected.
   B.   Remedy Of Deficiencies: The applicant shall correct all specified
deficiencies within ninety (90) days of the written notification of such
deficiencies. If the applicant fails to correct the specified deficiencies
within such ninety (90) day period, the application shall be deemed withdrawn
and will be returned to the applicant. Application fees and technical expertise
and engineering fees shall not be refunded. Any further submissions shall only
be considered as part of a new application.
   C.   Extensions Of Time: The town manager may, upon written request from the
applicant, grant the applicant one automatic thirty (30) day extension to
correct the specified deficiencies. (Ord. 2011-O-5, 11-10-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-
O-2, 4-12-2023)
10-14-6: SUBMISSION:
Following a determination by the town manager that the application is complete,
the land use application will be placed on the next available land use
authority regular meeting agenda for review. (Ord. 2011-O-5, 11-10-2011; amd.
Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
10-14-7: REVIEW:
   A.   Town Manager Review: Upon receipt of the land use application, the land
use authority may request a staff report reflecting an overview of the land use
application and an analysis of the land use application's compliance with the
town's ordinances and general plan from the town manager.
   B.   Public Meetings: The land use authority shall review the land use
application at one or more public meetings for compliance with the town's
ordinances and general plan.
   C.   Applicant Presentation: The land use authority may request a
presentation or appearance at a public meeting from the land use applicant to
present and discuss the land use application.
   D.   Application Deficiencies: The land use authority may identify
deficiencies in the land use application and request that the applicant submit
additional information or documents to come into compliance with the town's
ordinances and general plan.
   E.   Applicant Submission Of Additional Materials: During the land use
authority's review of the application, if the applicant determines that
additional materials are appropriate to comply with the town's ordinances or
general plan or to generally assist the land use authority with its review of
the application, the applicant may, at least ten (10) days prior to the next
regularly scheduled land use authority meeting on which the application is to
be considered as part of the agenda, submit additional information, including
more detailed plans, plats, and/or other materials.
   F.   Additional Materials: The land use authority, upon its own motion or
upon the recommendation from the town manager or designee, or the town building
official, may request additional information and materials if determined by the
land use authority to be necessary or helpful to the land use authority's
review of the application, including, but not limited to, the following
information:
      1.   A traffic and/or parking study (as determined by the land use
authority) prepared by a qualified traffic engineer.
      2.   Where applicable, a geotechnical study, which shall include
groundwater depths, soil stability, and/or avalanche hazard potential.
      3.   A final site plan of the proposed development.
      4.   Final approvals, as necessary, from the culinary water authority,
the sanitary sewer authority, the fire authority and/or the town marshal's
department, and any related plans, plats, or submissions required to comply
with the ordinances, requirements, rules, and regulations of the culinary water
authority, sanitary sewer authority, fire authority, and/or the town marshal's
department.
      5.   Evidence of lawful access to the property.
      6.   Any approvals, as necessary, from outside agencies that have
jurisdiction over any aspect of the property, such as from the United States
forest service or the U.S. corps of army engineers.
      7.   Identification of natural features on a map including, but not
limited to, known jurisdictional wetlands as identified by the U.S. army corps
of engineers, known or potential natural waterways, and any potential natural
hazards, including avalanche paths, seismic conditions (including liquefaction
information and fault lines), and areas of soil instability, and all on site
vegetation as regulated by town ordinance. A final map identifying natural
features as described in this section and identified by the building official
will be reviewed and approved or denied by the land use authority as part of
the application review process.
   G.   Adverse Impacts: To mitigate possible adverse impacts from the proposed
development, the land use authority shall determine from a review of the
application, conceptual plan, and preliminary plat whether the soil, slope,
vegetation, and drainage characteristics of the site are such as to require
substantial cutting, clearing, and other earth working operations in the
construction of the development or otherwise create an erosion hazard. If so,
the land use authority shall require the applicant to provide soil erosion,
geological hazard, and sedimentation control plans and specifications, each of
which shall be prepared by a qualified professional team with the costs of
preparation of such plans and specifications being borne by the applicant.
   H.   Additional Concerns: In addition, given the unique nature of the
topography, vegetation, soils, climatic, and aesthetic characteristics of the
property within the town, the land use authority may also consider the
following elements, among other relevant considerations, in its review of the
application:
      1.   Natural setting of the proposed land use, including wildlife
habitats.
      2.   Relationship of the proposed land use and improvements with other
structures and open spaces.
      3.   Contour intervals and topographic features of the location of the
proposed land use.
      4.   Height, density, and species of existing vegetation, and application
of applicable vegetation removal ordinances.
      5.   Scenic vistas and sight lines as existing and of the proposed land
use.
      6.   Other elements deemed appropriate to ensure that the purposes of
this chapter and other applicable town ordinances and general plan are met.
(Ord. 2011-O-5, 11-10-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
10-14-8: FINAL APPROVAL OR DENIAL; ADDITIONAL SUBMISSIONS:
   A.   Approval Or Denial: Within one year after receiving the complete land
use application from the town manager, and after review of the land use
application at one or more public meetings, the land use authority shall
approve or deny the land use application. The land use authority shall only
approve those land use applications which:
      1.   Are in accordance with the intent, standards, and criteria specified
in the town's general plan and ordinances;
      2.   Create no financial hardship on the town; and
      3.   Create no environmental consequence that will adversely impact
adjacent properties and the health, safety, or welfare of the inhabitants of
the town when weighed against the positive impacts of such development.
   B.   Requirements Waived: The land use authority may waive any requirements
under this ordinance or the town's ordinances which it determines are not
applicable to the proposed land use or land use application.
   C.   Town Manager's Role: The land use authority may seek the direction,
review, analysis of whether the land use application complies with the town's
ordinances and general plan, and/or recommendation as to whether the land use
application should be approved or denied from the town manager.
   D.   Extensions Of Time: The land use authority may grant up to a one year
extension to the applicant, during which time the land use authority will
refrain from making a decision to either approve or deny the application. The
extension may be granted by the land use authority if the applicant requests
such an extension in writing prior to the expiration date and shows good cause
for the extension. The land use authority may request that the applicant keep
the land use authority updated throughout the extension period on any progress
made on the land use application, and the applicant may submit new information
to the land use authority at any time during the extension period.
   E.   Expiration Of Approvals: For any approved development, project, or land
use under this chapter which requires a plat, such plat must be recorded within
one year of the land use authority's approval date or the plat and the approval
will be deemed void. For any approved conditional use or other land use which
does not require a plat, the conditional use or other land use approval will
expire within one year of the land use authority's approval date unless there
is substantial action, including construction, consistent with the approved
land use permit. (Ord. 2011-O-5, 11-10-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
10-14-9: PUBLIC NOTICE TO BE POSTED:
   A.   Every person submitting a land use application under this chapter shall
post and maintain a notice at the affected real property as provided in this
section, within three (3) business days after submitting the application to the
town.
   B.   The town shall process and consider the land use application only if
the applicant complies with this section.
   C.   The notice shall be a white weatherproof sign, at least two feet by two
feet (2' x 2') in size, posted securely at least four feet (4') above ground
level on a stake, post, fence or other structure within six feet (6') of the
primary access to the affected real property from a right of way, commonly used
way of public travel, or public road, and legible from the right of way, way of
travel or public road.
   D.   The notice shall contain in black print:
      1.   In letters at least one inch (1") high:
      NOTICE OF PROPOSED LAND USE.
      2.   In letters at least one-fourth inch (1/4") high:
      [Applicant's name] has filed an application to the Town of Alta on [date
filed] for a permit to change the land use on the real property at [street
address, or if the property has no street address, plain English description of
property location] as follows: [a description of the material features of the
proposed conditional uses, planned unit development or other land use applied
for], as shown on the site plan below. More information and a copy of the
permit application are available at the Town of Alta: 801-742-3522 and
www.townofalta.com.
      3.   The information required by the bracketed words in subsection D2 of
this section.
      4.   The sketch/site plan required by subsection
10-14-4B3a of this chapter, reproduced clearly and as large as possible within
the area of the sign.
   E.   The notice shall remain posted until approval or denial of the
application, disposition of all appeals, or expiration of time to appeal,
whichever occurs later.
   F.   In the event that it is or becomes impracticable to post or maintain
the signage notice required by this section, for example due to snow removal,
snow storage, location, or physical attributes of the property, the town
manager may exercise discretion to waive or modify some or all of the signage
notice requirements of this section in a reasonable manner that is not
materially more burdensome to the applicant, and that gives effect as much as
practicable to the purposes of this section.
   G.   The town of Alta shall post on its public website a copy of every land
use application filed under this section until approval or denial of the
application, disposition of all appeals, or expiration of time to appeal;
whichever occurs later. (Ord. 2011-O-5, 11-10-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-
2023)
TITLE 11
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 1
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Statutory Authorization
11-1-2: Findings Of Fact
11-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
11-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
11-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Utah has, in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-
505(1)(c), delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to minimize flood losses. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010; amd.
2010 Code)
11-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise unprotected from flood damage. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
11-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
11-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this title uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Definitions
11-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to give
this title its most reasonable application:
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform, which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows, active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH or VO zone on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built, in the case of a building
in zones A1-30, AE, A, A-99, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor, or in the case of a building in zones V1-30, VE or V, to have
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor
elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers),
or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water; and b) adequately anchored so
as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A-99,
AO, AH, B, C, X and D, "elevated building" also includes a building elevated by
means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-30,
VE or V, "elevated building" also includes a building otherwise meeting the
definition of "elevated building", even though the lower area is enclosed by
means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls met the standards of section
60.3(e)(5) of the national flood insurance program regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM, or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date.
"Existing construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
A. The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
B. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated and expended, and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
A. Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined by the
secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on
the National Registery;
B. Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district;
C. Individually listed on a State Inventory of Historic Places in states with
historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary of
interior; or
D. Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in communities
with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
   1. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior or;
   2. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed, on or after the
effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
A. Built on a single chassis;
B. Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
C. Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
and
D. Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION (For Other Than New Construction Or Substantial
Improvements Under The Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub.L. 97-348)): Includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations, or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual "start of construction"
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
A. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications, which have been
identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
necessary conditions; or
B. Any alteration of a "historic structure"; provided, that the alteration will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this title when
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this title. (For full requirements, see section 60.6 of the national flood
insurance program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Lands Applicable
11-3-2: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
11-3-3: Development Permit Required
11-3-4: Compliance
11-3-5: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
11-3-6: Interpretation
11-3-7: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
11-3-1: LANDS APPLICABLE:
This title shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the town. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
11-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood
Insurance Study For Salt Lake County, Utah, And Incorporated Areas", dated
September 25, 2009, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps and flood
boundary-floodway maps (FIRM and FBFM), and any revisions thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this title. (Ord. 2010-O-1,
3-11-2010)
11-3-3: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED:
A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
11-3-4: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this title and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
11-3-5: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this title and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 2010-O-
1, 3-11-2010)
11-3-6: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
11-3-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall
not create liability on the part of the community or any official or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this title or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
11-4-1: Designation Of Floodplain Administrator
11-4-2: Duties And Responsibilities
11-4-3: Permit Procedures
11-4-4: Variance Procedures
11-4-1: DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The town manager, or his designated representative, is hereby appointed the
floodplain administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this
title and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance
program regulations) pertaining to floodplain management. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-
2010; amd. Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
11-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this title.
   B.   Review permit applications to determine whether proposed building
sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding.
   C.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this title.
   D.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
   E.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   F.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is the department of natural resources, Salt Lake
City department of public utilities and the state engineer, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the federal emergency management agency.
   G.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   H.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
section
11-3-2 of this title, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
11-4-3: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application; Information Required: Application for a development permit
shall be presented to the floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/
her and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale
showing the location, dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape
alterations, existing and proposed structures, including the placement of
manufactured homes, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of
special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection 11-5-2B of this title;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection 11-5-2B of this title.
   B.   Considerations: Approval or denial of a development permit by the
floodplain administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this title
and the following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
11-4-4: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Appeal Board: The appeal board as established by the community shall
hear and render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of
this title.
   B.   Permitted Appeals: The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on
an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement,
decision or determination made by the floodplain administrator in the
enforcement or administration of this title.
   C.   Further Appeal: Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the
appeal board may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   Records Maintained: The floodplain administrator shall maintain a
record of all actions involving an appeal and shall report variances to the
federal emergency management agency, upon request.
   E.   Historic Places: Variances may be issued for the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to
the procedures set forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   F.   New Construction, Substantial Improvements: Variances may be issued for
new construction and substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-
half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing the
relevant factors in subsection J of this section have been fully considered. As
the lot size increases beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   G.   Conditions May Be Attached: Upon consideration of the factors noted
above and the intent of this title, the appeal board may attach such conditions
to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
objectives of this title (section
11-1-3 of this title).
   H.   Increase In Flood Levels Prohibited: Variances shall not be issued
within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge would result.
   I.   Repair Of Historic Structures: Variances may be issued for the repair
or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   J.   Prerequisites For Granting: Prerequisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   K.   Functionally Dependent Uses: Variances may be issued by a community for
new construction and substantial improvements and for other development
necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use; provided, that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in subsection A through I of this section are
met; and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
11-5-1: General Standards
11-5-2: Specific Standards
11-5-3: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
11-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
   G.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
11-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in section
11-3-2 and subsection 11-4-2H of this title, or subsection 11-5-3C of this
chapter, the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection as proposed in
subsection 11-4-3A3 of this title is satisfied.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level, or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification, which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed, shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator.
   C.   Manufactured Homes: Require that all manufactured homes to be placed
within zone A on a community FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and
practices which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement,
manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting
wind forces. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
11-5-3: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with sections
11-1-2,
11-1-3 and
11-1-4 of this title.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet development
permit requirements of sections
11-3-3 and
11-4-3 of this title, and the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development, including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5)
acres, whichever is the lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to section
11-3-2 or subsection 11-4-2H of this title.
   D.   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010)
TITLE 12
CIVIL CODE ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Short Title
12-1-2: Declaration Of Purpose
12-1-3: Scope
12-1-4: Existing Ordinances And Laws Continued
12-1-5: Criminal Prosecution Right
12-1-6: Effect Of Headings
12-1-7: Validity Of Title - Severability
12-1-8: No Mandatory Duty - Civil Liability
12-1-9: General Rules Of Interpretation Of Ordinances
12-1-10: Definitions Applicable To Title Generally
12-1-11: Acts Include Causing, Aiding And Abetting
12-1-12: Service Requirements
12-1-12-1: Service Of Process
12-1-12-2: Construction Notice Of Recorded Documents
12-1-13: General Authority And Offenses
12-1-13-1: General Enforcement Authority
12-1-13-2: Adoption Of Policy And Procedures
12-1-13-3: Authority To Inspect
12-1-13-4: Power To Arrest
12-1-13-5: False Information Or Refusal Prohibited
12-1-13-6: Failure To Obey A Subpoena
12-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Title shall be known as the "Civil Code Enforcement Program" or “CCE
Program.” This Chapter shall also be known as Chapter 12-1, of the Town of Alta
Municipal Code. It may be cited and pleaded under either designation. (Ord.
2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-1-2: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
The Town of Alta finds that the enforcement of its Municipal Code and
applicable state codes throughout the Town is an important public service. Code
enforcement and nuisance abatement are vital to the protection of the public's
health, safety, and quality of life. The Council recognizes that enforcement
starts with the drafting of precise regulations that can be effectively applied
in civil code enforcement hearings and judicial proceedings. The Council
further finds that a comprehensive code enforcement system that uses a
combination of criminal, civil, and administrative remedies is critical to gain
compliance with these regulations in a manner that is fair and equitable to the
Town of Alta and its occupants. Failure to comply with a civil code enforcement
action may require the Town Attorney to file a judicial action to gain
compliance. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-1-3: SCOPE:
The provisions of this Title may be applied to all violations of the Alta Town
Code, except as prohibited by Town Ordinance or Utah statute, and is designed
as an additional remedy for the Town of Alta to use in achieving compliance of
its ordinances. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-1-4: EXISTING ORDINANCES AND LAWS CONTINUED:
The provisions of this Title do not invalidate any other title or ordinance but
shall be read in conjunction with those titles and ordinances as an additional
remedy available for the enforcement of those ordinances together with any and
all other applicable laws. If there is a conflict between this Title and
another provision of the Town Code, this Title shall control. (Ord. 2024-O-4,
2-14-2024)
12-1-5: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT:
The Town of Alta has sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or
criminal case for the violation of any of its ordinances. The enactment of the
administrative remedies set forth in this Title shall in no way interfere with
the Town of Alta's right to prosecute ordinance violations as criminal offenses
in a court of law. The Town of Alta may use any of the remedies available under
the law in both civil and criminal prosecution. If the Town of Alta chooses to
file both civil and criminal charges for the same day of a violation, no civil
fines may be assessed, but all other remedies will be available. (Ord. 2024-O-
4, 2-14-2024)
12-1-6: EFFECT OF HEADINGS:
Title, chapter, part and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed
to govern, limit, modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent
of the provisions of any title, chapter, part, or section hereof. (Ord. 2024-O-
4, 2-14-2024)
12-1-7: VALIDITY OF TITLE - SEVERABILITY:
If any chapter, part, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion,
or provision of this Title is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Title.
The Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this Title and chapter,
part, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
clauses, phrases, portions, or provisions be declared invalid or
unconstitutional. This Section shall apply to all amendments heretofore or
hereafter made to this Title. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-1-8: NO MANDATORY DUTY - CIVIL LIABILITY:
It is the intent of the Council that in establishing performance standards or
establishing an obligation to act by a Town of Alta officer, employee, or
designee, these standards shall not be construed as creating a mandatory duty
for purposes of tort liability if the officer, employee, or designee fails to
perform directed duties. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-1-9: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION OF ORDINANCES:
For purposes of this Title:
   A.   Any gender includes the other gender(s).
   B.   "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
   C.   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   D.   Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense, and
vice versa.
   E.   Words and phrases used in this Title, and not specifically defined,
shall be construed according to the context and approved usage of the language.
(Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-1-10: DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO TITLE GENERALLY:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Title, shall be
constructed as defined in this section, unless a different meaning is
specifically defined elsewhere in this Title and specifically stated to apply:
               Any action the Town of Alta may take on public or private property and any
ABATE or       adjacent property as may be necessary to remove or alleviate a violation,
ABATEMENT:     including, but not limited to, demolition, removal, repair, boarding, and
               securing or replacement of property.
ADMINISTRATIVE
LAW JUDGE or   The position established by the Town of Alta to adjudicate civil enforcement
HEARING        actions.
OFFICER:
ANIMAL CONTROL The Town Marshal’s department. (See Alta Code 5-2-2.)
ADMINISTRATOR:
CHIEF BUILDING The official authorized and responsible for planning, directing, and managing
INSPECTOR:     the building inspection activities within the Town of Alta.
CIVIL CODE     An order issued by an Administrative Law Judge. The order may include an order
ENFORCEMENT    to abate the violation, pay civil penalties and administrative costs, or take
ORDER:         any other action as authorized or required by this Title and applicable state
               codes.
CODE           A lien recorded to collect outstanding civil penalties, administrative fees, and
ENFORCEMENT    costs.
LIEN:
CODE           A bond posted by a responsible person to ensure compliance with the Town of Alta
ENFORCEMENT    Code, applicable state titles, a judicial action, or a civil code enforcement
PERFORMANCE    order.
BOND:
COUNCIL:       The Alta Town Council.
COUNTY:        Salt Lake County, Utah.
ENFORCEMENT    Any person authorized to enforce violations of the Town of Alta Code or
OFFICIAL:      applicable state codes.
FINANCIAL      Any person that holds a recorded mortgage or deed of trust on a property.
INSTITUTION:
FIRE           The applicable entity that is authorized and responsible for providing fire and
DEPARTMENT:    emergency services to the Town of Alta.
               Incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice; unavailability due to
GOOD CAUSE:    unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or circumstance; if a
               required act causes an imminent and irreparable injury; and acts of nature
               adverse to performing required acts.
IMMINENT LIFE  Any condition that creates a present, extreme, and immediate danger to life,
SAFETY HAZARD: property, health, or public safety.
LEGAL          Any interest that is represented by a document, such as a deed of trust,
INTEREST:      quitclaim deed, mortgage, judgment lien, tax or assessment lien, mechanic's
               lien, or other similar instrument that is recorded with the County Recorder.
NOTICE OF      A document issued by the Town of Alta, representing that a property complies
COMPLIANCE:    with the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.
               A document or form approved by the Administrative Law Judge or designee, which
               indicates that all outstanding civil penalties and costs have been either paid
NOTICE OF      in full, or that the Town of Alta has negotiated an agreed amount, or that a
SATISFACTION:  subsequent administrative or judicial decision has resolved the outstanding
               debt. In addition to the satisfaction of the financial debt, the property must
               also be in compliance with the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.
NOTICE OF      A written notice prepared by an enforcement official that informs a responsible
VIOLATION:     person of code violations and orders them to take certain steps to correct the
               violations.
OATH:          Includes affirmations and oaths.
               Any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
PERSON:        association, club, company, corporation, business trust, organization, or the
               manager, lessee, agent, sergeant, officer, or employee of any of them, or any
               other entity that is recognized by law as the subject of rights or duties.
PROGRAM:       The civil code enforcement Program authorized under this Title.
PROPERTY       The record owner of real property based on the county assessor's records.
OWNER:
               Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist that constitutes a
               threat to the public's health, safety, and welfare, or that significantly
PUBLIC         obstructs, injures, or interferes with the reasonable or free use of property in
NUISANCE:      a neighborhood or community or by any considerable number of persons. A public
               nuisance also has the same meaning as set forth in the Utah Code Annotated and
               Town of Alta Code 4-1 “Nuisances and Weed Control.
               A person who has charge, care, or control of any premises, dwelling, or dwelling
               unit as the legal or equitable owner, agent of the owner, lessee, or as an
RESPONSIBLE    executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. In all
PERSON:        cases, the person with legal title to any premises, dwelling, or dwelling unit
               shall be considered a responsible person, with or without accompanying actual
               possession thereof.
               The area within the territorial municipal limits of the Town of Alta, and such
TOWN:          territory outside of this Town of Alta over which the Town of Alta has
               jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional or incorporation
               provisions or any law.
               The Town Manager of the Town or authorized agent(s) or any other person/entity
TOWN MANAGER:  and their authorized agent(s) that the Town of Alta has authorized to provide
               code enforcement services.
TOWN OF ALTA:  The Town of Alta, a municipal corporation under state law.
TREASURER:     The Town of Alta Treasurer as designated pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3c-203
               or successor statute(s).
               Public nuisance violations, as defined in Town ordinance or Utah law, to
               include:
               A.   Land uses that do not conform to existing zoning of the property;
               B.   Unauthorized collections of motor vehicles that are unlicensed,
               unregistered, and/or inoperable;
VIOLATION:     C.   Trash, litter, illegal dumping, and weeds;
               D.   Nuisance noise and lighting;
               E.   Illegal advertising;
               F.   The unauthorized use of public streets and sidewalks that stem from news
               racks, merchandise displays, mobile food vending, and other such illegal uses;
               and
               G.   Any violation of Town of Alta ordinances.
WRITTEN:       Includes handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed, emailed or
               facsimile. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
 
12-1-11: ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, AIDING AND ABETTING:
Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this Title, it shall include
causing, permitting, aiding, or abetting such act or omission. (Ord. 2024-O-4,
2-14-2024)
12-1-12: SERVICE REQUIREMENTS:
12-1-12-1: SERVICE OF PROCESS:
   A.   Whenever service is required to be given under this Title, service
shall be made in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-2 or successor statute
(s), unless another form of service is required by law.
   B.   If service complies with the requirements of this Section, it shall be
deemed a valid service even if a party claims not to have received the service
and it shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this Title.
   C.   The failure to serve all responsible person(s) shall not affect the
validity of any proceedings. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-1-12-2: CONSTRUCTION NOTICE OF RECORDED DOCUMENTS:
Whenever a document is recorded with the County Recorder as authorized or
required by this Title or applicable state codes, recordation shall provide
constructive notice of the information contained in the recorded documents.
(Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-1-13: GENERAL AUTHORITY AND OFFENSES:
12-1-13-1: GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
Whenever the Town Manager or enforcement official finds that a violation of the
Town of Alta Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist,
the appropriate administrative enforcement procedure may be used as outlined in
this Title. The Town Manager or any designated enforcement official has the
authority and power necessary to gain compliance with the provisions of the
Town of Alta Code and applicable state codes. These powers include the power to
issue notices of violation and administrative citations, inspect public and
private property, abate public and private property, and use whatever judicial
and administrative remedies are available under the Town of Alta Code or
applicable state codes. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-1-13-2: ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES:
The Administrative Law Judge is authorized to develop policies and procedures
relating to the hearing procedures, scope of hearings, subpoena powers, and
other matters relating to the Program. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-1-13-3: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT:
The Town Manager or any designated enforcement official is authorized to enter
upon any property or premises to ascertain whether the provisions of the Town
of Alta Code or applicable state codes are being obeyed and to make any
examinations and surveys as may be necessary in the performance of the
enforcement duties. Provided that the Town Manager or any designated
enforcement official may not enter a gated backyard without probable cause that
a violation exists. This may include the taking of photographs, samples, or
other physical evidence. All inspections, entries, examinations, and surveys
shall be done in a reasonable manner based upon cause. If the responsible
person refuses to allow the enforcement official to enter the property, the
enforcement official shall obtain a search warrant. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-1-13-4: POWER TO ARREST:
The Town Marshal or designated enforcement official is authorized to issue a
misdemeanor citation, civil violation notice, or administrative citation
whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the person has committed a
violation of the Town of Alta Code or applicable state codes. (Ord. 2024-O-4,
2-14-2024)
12-1-13-5: FALSE INFORMATION OR REFUSAL PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement or
refuse to give the person’s name or address with intent to deceive or interfere
with a duly authorized Town of Alta official or agent, including but not
limited to the Town Marshal or authorized enforcement officials, when in the
performance of the official’s duties under the provisions of this Title. A
violation of this Section is a class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-1-13-6: FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA:
It is unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for a
civil code enforcement hearing. Failure to obey a subpoena constitutes contempt
and is a class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
CHAPTER 2
CIVIL CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-2-1: Authority
12-2-2: Notice of Violation
12-2-3: Failure To Bring Property Into Compliance
12-2-4: Inspections
12-2-5: Emergency Abatement
12-2-5-1: Authority
12-2-5-2: Procedures
12-2-5-3: Notice Of Emergency Abatement
12-2-5-4: Demolition
12-2-5-5: Procedures
12-2-6: Administrative Citations
12-2-6-1: Declaration Of Purpose
12-2-6-2: Authority
12-2-6-3: Procedures
12-2-6-4: Contents Of Administrative Citation
12-2-6-5: Civil Penalties Assessed
12-2-7: Hearing Procedures
12-2-7-1: Declaration Of Purpose
12-2-7-2: Authority And Scope Of Hearings
12-2-7-3: Request For Civil Code Enforcement Hearing
12-2-7-4: Hearings And Orders
12-2-7-5: Notification Of Civil Code Enforcement Hearing
12-2-7-6: Disqualification Of Administrative Law Judge
12-2-7-7: Powers Of The Administrative Law Judge
12-2-7-8: Procedures At Civil Code Enforcement Hearing
12-2-7-9: Failure To Attend Civil Code Enforcement Hearing
12-2-7-10: Civil Code Enforcement Order
12-2-7-11: Failure To Comply With Order
12-2-8: Administrative Enforcement Appeals
12-2-8-1: Appeal Of Civil Code Enforcement Hearing Decision
12-2-1: AUTHORITY:
Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any
provisions of the Town of Alta Code or applicable state codes that constitutes
a violation may be abated by the Town of Alta pursuant to the procedures set
forth in this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-2: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   Whenever the Town Manager or designated enforcement official determines
that a violation of the Town of Alta Code or applicable state codes has
occurred or continues to exist, the Town Manager or enforcement official will
issue a notice of violation to a responsible person. The notice of violation
shall include the following information and shall comply with Utah Code § 10-
11-2 or successor statute(s):
      1.   Name of the property owner of record according to the records of the
County Recorder or state property records;
      2.   Street address of violation;
      3.   Nature and results of the examination and investigation conducted;
      4.   Date and approximate time the violation was occurred;
      5.   All code sections violated and description of condition of the
property that violates the applicable codes;
      6.   A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to
permanently correct outstanding violations, which may include corrections,
repairs, demolition, removal, eradication, destruction, or other appropriate
action;
      7.   A specific date for the responsible party to correct the violations
listed in the notice of violation, which date shall be at least ten days from
the date of service unless the Town Manager determines that the violation
requires emergency abatement under Section 12-2-5;
      8.   Explanation of the consequences should the responsible person fail
to comply with the terms and deadlines as prescribed in the notice of
violation, which may include, but is not limited to, criminal prosecution;
civil penalties; revocation of permits; recordation of the notice of violation;
withholding of future municipal permits; abatement of the violation by the Town
of Alta and re-payment to the Town of Alta for the costs of the abatement;
other costs incurred by the Town of Alta; administrative fees; and any other
legal remedies;
      9.   That civil penalties will begin to accrue immediately on expiration
of the date to correct violations;
      10.   The amount of the civil penalty on each violation and that the
penalty will accrue daily until the property is brought into compliance;
      11.   That only one notice of violation is required for any twelve (12)-
month period, and that civil penalties begin immediately upon any subsequent
violations of the notice. The responsible person may request a hearing on the
renewed violations by following the same procedure as provided for the original
notice;
      12.   Procedures to appeal the notice and request a hearing as provided
in Section 12-2-7-3, and consequences for failure to request one (1); and
      13.   Procedures to request an inspection after the violation has been
abated pursuant to Section 12-2-4.
   B.   The notice of violation shall be served by one of the methods of
service listed in Section 12-1-12-1 of this Title.
   C.   More than one notice of violation may be issued against the same
responsible person, if it encompasses different dates, or different violations.
(Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-3: FAILURE TO BRING PROPERTY INTO COMPLIANCE:
   A.   If a responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance
within the compliance period specified in the notice of violation, civil
penalties shall be owed to the Town of Alta for each and every subsequent day
of violation.
   B.   Failure to comply with the notice of violation may be subject to
criminal prosecution. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-4: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the responsible person served with a notice of
violation to request in writing an inspection when the property has been
brought into compliance. It is prima facie evidence that the violation remains
on the property if no inspection is requested. Civil penalties accumulate daily
until the property has been inspected and a notice of compliance is issued. Re-
inspection fees shall be assessed if more than one inspection is necessary.
(Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-5: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
12-2-5-1: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Whenever the Town Manager determines that an imminent life safety
hazard exists that requires immediate correction or elimination, the Town
Manager may exercise the following powers without prior notice to the
responsible person:
      1.   Order the immediate vacation of any tenants, and prohibit occupancy
or entry until all repairs are completed, provided that an order prohibiting
entry shall specify how entry is to be made to mitigate damage, complete
repairs, retrieve personal property, or for any other purpose, if any, during
the abatement process.
      2.   Post the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous;
      3.   Board, fence, or secure the building or site;
      4.   Raze and grade that portion of the building or site to prevent
further collapse, and remove any hazard to the general public;
      5.   Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any
imminent life safety hazard; or
      6.   Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the emergency.
   B.   The Town Manager and/or designated agents have the authority, based on
cause, to enter the property without a search warrant or court order to
accomplish the above listed acts to abate the safety hazard.
   C.   The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with
the abatement of the life safety hazard. Costs may be recovered pursuant to
this Title. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-5-2: PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Town Manager shall pursue only the minimum level of correction or
abatement as necessary to eliminate the immediacy of the hazard. Costs incurred
by the Town of Alta during the emergency abatement process shall be assessed
and recovered against the responsible person through the procedures outlined in
Chapter 12-3 of this Title regarding "Administrative and Judicial Remedies"
section.
   B.   The Town Manager may also pursue any other valid and legal
administrative or judicial remedy to abate any remaining violations. (Ord.
2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-5-3: NOTICE OF EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
After an emergency abatement, the Town of Alta shall notify the owner or
responsible person of the abatement action taken in writing. This notice shall
be served within ten days of completion of the abatement and will describe in
reasonable detail the abatement actions taken. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-5-4: DEMOLITION:
Whenever the Town Manager determines that a property or building requires
demolition, the Town may demolish or remove the offending structure, or
exercise any or all of the powers listed in Section 12-2-5-1 once appropriate
notice has been given to a responsible person pursuant to the Uniform Abatement
of Dangerous Buildings Code or Uniform Fire Codes as required under state law,
provided that the notice shall include a written description of the Town
Manager's findings explaining the need for the demolition and citations to the
applicable ordinances or laws authorizing the demolition. The responsible
person shall be liable for all costs associated with the demolition. Costs may
be recovered pursuant to this Title. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-5-5: PROCEDURES:
Once the Town Manager has determined that the Town of Alta Chief Building
Inspector or the Fire Department has complied with all of the notice
requirements of the applicable laws, the property will be demolished. Other
applicable remedies may also be pursued. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-6: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS:
12-2-6-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
The Council finds that there is a need for an alternative method of enforcement
for minor violations of the Town of Alta Code and applicable state codes. The
Council further finds that an appropriate method of enforcement is an
administrative citation program. The procedures established in this Part shall
be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other legal remedy established by law
that may be pursued to address violations of the Town of Alta Code or
applicable state codes. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-6-2: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Any person violating any minor provision of the Town of Alta Code or
applicable state codes may be issued an administrative citation by an
enforcement official as provided in this Part.
   B.   A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of an administrative
citation issued by the enforcement official, and shall be payable directly to
the Town of Alta Treasurer's Office, or other offices designated to receive
payment on behalf of the Town of Alta.
   C.   Penalties assessed by means of an administrative citation shall be
collected in accordance with the procedures specified in the remedies section
of this Title. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-6-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Upon discovering any violation of the Town of Alta Code, or applicable
state codes, an enforcement official may issue an administrative citation to a
responsible person in the manner prescribed in this Part or as prescribed in
Section 12-1-12-1. The administrative citation shall be issued on a form
approved by the Town Manager.
   B.   If the responsible person is a business, the enforcement official shall
attempt to locate the business owner and issue an administrative citation to
the business owner. If the enforcement official can only locate the manager of
the business, the administrative citation may be given to the manager of the
business. A copy of the administrative citation may also be mailed to the
business owner or any other responsible person in the manner prescribed in
Section 12-1-12-1 of this Title.
   C.   Once the responsible person has been located, the enforcement official
shall attempt to obtain the signature of that person on the administrative
citation. If the responsible person refuses or fails to sign the administrative
citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the validity of the
citation and subsequent proceedings.
   D.   If the enforcement official is unable to locate the responsible person
for the violation, then the administrative citation shall be mailed to the
responsible person in the manner prescribed in Section 12-1-12-1 of this Title.
   E.   If no one can be located at the property, then the administrative
citation may be posted in a conspicuous place on or near the property and a
copy subsequently mailed to the responsible person in the manner prescribed by
Section 12-1-12-1 of this Title.
   F.   The administrative citation shall also contain the signature of the
enforcement official.
   G.   The failure of any person with an interest in the property to receive
notice shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this Part.
(Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-6-4: CONTENTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION:
Administrative citations shall include the information required in Section 12-
2-2 and shall:
   A.   State the amount of penalty imposed for the minor violations; and
   B.   Explain how the penalty shall be paid, the time period by which the
penalty shall be paid, and the consequences of failure to pay the penalty.
(Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-6-5: CIVIL PENALTIES ASSESSED:
   A.   The Town of Alta Council shall establish policies to assist in the
assessment of civil penalties for administrative citations.
   B.   Civil penalties shall be assessed immediately for each violation listed
on the administrative citation. The penalties shall be those established in the
published Fee Schedule.
   C.   Payment of the penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct the
violations, nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the Town of Alta.
(Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-7: HEARING PROCEDURES:
12-2-7-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
The Council finds that there is a need to establish uniform procedures for
civil code enforcement hearings conducted pursuant to the Town of Alta Code. It
is the purpose and intent of the Council to afford due process of law to any
person who is directly affected by an administrative action. Due process of law
includes notice, an opportunity to participate in the administrative hearing,
and an explanation of the reasons justifying the administrative action. These
procedures are also intended to establish a forum to efficiently,
expeditiously, and fairly resolve issues raised in any civil code enforcement
action. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-7-2: AUTHORITY AND SCOPE OF HEARINGS:
The Administrative Law Judge will preside over hearings of Town of Alta Code
violations. The Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and procedures
to regulate the hearing process for any violation of the Town of Alta Code and
applicable state codes that are handled pursuant to the administrative
abatement procedures, the emergency abatement procedures, the demolition
procedures, or the administrative citation procedures. If there is a conflict
between the appeal procedures in this Title and the appeal procedures in
another code incorporated by the Town, this Title shall control. (Ord. 2024-O-
4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-7-3: REQUEST FOR CIVIL CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
   A.   A person served with one of the following documents or notices has the
right to request an civil code enforcement hearing, if the request is filed
within twenty (20) calendar days from the date of service of one of the
following notices:
      1.   Notice of violation or abatement;
      2.   Notice of itemized bill for costs;
      3.   Administrative citation;
      4.   Notice of emergency abatement;
   B.   The request for a hearing shall be made in writing and filed with the
Administrative Law Judge. The request shall contain the case number, the
address of the violation, and the signature of the responsible party.
   C.   As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the
request for hearing, the Administrative Law Judge shall schedule a date, time,
and place for the hearing.
   D.   Failure to request a hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver of
the right to a hearing and a waiver of the right to challenge the action. (Ord.
2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-7-4: HEARINGS AND ORDERS:
   A.   If the responsible person fails to request a hearing before the
expiration of the twenty (20)-day deadline, the Town Manager may request a
default hearing, which the Administrative Law Judge shall schedule. The
responsible person shall be notified of the date, time, and place of the
hearing by one of the methods listed in Section 12-2-5-1.
   B.   A default hearing shall be scheduled for all cases that have
outstanding or unpaid civil penalties, fines, fees and/or costs due to the Town
of Alta before collection, if a hearing on that case has not already been held.
   C.   At any hearing, the responsible person shall have the opportunity to
present evidence to show that good cause exists, as defined in the Title, to do
one (1) or more of the following in addition to any other rights afforded under
other provisions of the Town of Alta Code or applicable law:
      1.   Waive or reduce the fines which have accumulated;
      2.   Postpone an abatement action by the Town of Alta; or
      3.   Excuse the responsible person's failure to request a hearing within
the twenty (20)-day period.
   D.   If the responsible person fails to establish good cause to take one or
more of the actions set forth in paragraph C., the Administrative Law Judge
shall review the notice of violation and any other relevant information
included in the case file. The Administrative Law Judge shall not accept any
other evidence.
   1.   If the evidence shows that the violations existed, the Administrative
Law Judge shall enter an order requiring abatement of the violations, and the
payment of all fines and fees. Fines shall run until the Town Manager or other
duly authorized representative of the Town of Alta issues a Notice of
Compliance stating when the violations were actually abated. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-
14-2024)
12-2-7-5: NOTIFICATION OF CIVIL CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
   A.   Written notice of the day, time, and place of the hearing shall be
served to a responsible person as soon as practicable prior to the date of the
hearing.
   B.   The format and contents of the hearing notice shall be in accordance
with rules and policies promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.
   C.   The notice of hearing shall be served by any of the methods of service
listed in Section 12-1-12-1 of this Title. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-7-6: DISQUALIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE:
   A.   A responsible person may file a written motion to disqualify an
Administrative Law Judge for bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any
other reason for which a judge may be disqualified in a court of law. The
motion to disqualify shall be accompanied by an affidavit or unsworn
declaration as described in Title 78B of the Utah Code or applicable successor
statute(s) signed by the responsible person, which shall:
      1.   State that the motion is filed in good faith;
      2.   Allege facts sufficient to show, bias, prejudice, a conflict of
interest, or any other reason that would disqualify a judge in a court of law
in Utah; and
      3.   State when and how the Responsible Party came to know of the reason
for disqualification.
   B.   The responsible person must file the motion within twenty-one (21) days
of the assignment of the action to an Administrative Law Judge or the date on
which the responsible person knew or should have known of the grounds on which
the motion is based, whichever is later.
   C.   A responsible person can only file one motion to disqualify an
Administrative Law Judge, unless a second or subsequent motion is based on
grounds that the responsible person did not know of and could not have known of
at the time of the earlier motion.
   D.   The Administrative Law Judge who is the subject of a motion to
disqualify must, without taking any further action, provide the Town Manager
with a copy of the motion and refer the motion to the Town of Alta Council.
   E.   Upon receipt of a motion to disqualify, the Town of Alta Council will
schedule and notice the matter for review at its next regular scheduled
meeting. The Town of Alta Council may, in its sole discretion, elect to hold a
special meeting to hear the motion before its next regularly scheduled meeting.
The Town of Alta Council shall first review the motion to disqualify to
determine if it satisfies the requirements of paragraphs A. and B. of this
Section. If the motion to disqualify does not satisfy the requirements of this
Section, the Council will deny the motion and remand it to the Administrative
Law Judge for further proceedings. If the motion to disqualify satisfies the
requirements of paragraphs A. and B. of this Section, the Town of Alta Council
shall determine whether the motion is legally sufficient to warrant
disqualification. If the Town of Alta Council determines that disqualification
is warranted, it will assign the matter to another Administrative Law Judge. If
the Town of Alta Council determines that the motion to disqualify is not
legally sufficient, it will remand the matter back to the Administrative Law
Judge. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-7-7: POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE:
   A.   The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to hold hearings,
determine if violations of Town of Alta ordinances exist, order compliance with
Town of Alta ordinances, and enforce compliance as provided in this Title on
any matter subject to the provisions of the Title.
   B.   The Administrative Law Judge may continue a hearing based on good cause
shown by one of the parties to the hearing. The Administrative Law Judge must
enter on the record the good cause on which a continuance is granted.
   C.   The Administrative Law Judge, at the request of any party to the
hearing, may sign subpoenas for witnesses, documents, and other evidence where
the attendance of the witness for the admission of evidence is deemed necessary
to decide the issues at the hearing. All costs related to the subpoena,
including witness and mileage fees, shall be borne by the party requesting the
subpoena. The Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and procedures
relating to the issuance of subpoenas in civil code enforcement hearings,
including the form of the subpoena and related costs.
   D.   The Administrative Law Judge has continuing jurisdiction over the
subject matter of an civil code enforcement hearing for the purposes of
granting a continuance; ordering compliance by issuing an civil code
enforcement order using any remedies available under the law; ensuring
compliance of that order, which includes the right to authorize the Town of
Alta to enter and abate a violation; modifying an civil code enforcement order;
or, where extraordinary circumstances exist, granting a new hearing.
   E.   The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to require a responsible
person to post a code enforcement performance bond to ensure compliance with a
civil code enforcement order. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-7-8: PROCEDURES AT CIVIL CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
   A.   Civil code enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in nature.
Formal rules of evidence and discovery do not apply; however, an informal
exchange of discovery may be required. The request must be in writing. Failure
to request discovery shall not be a basis for a continuance. Complainant
information is protected and shall not be released unless the complainant is a
witness at the hearing. The procedure and format of the administrative hearing
shall follow the procedures promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.
   B.   The Town of Alta bears the burden of proof at a civil code enforcement
hearing to establish the existence of a violation of the Town of Alta Code or
applicable state codes.
   C.   The standard of proof to be used by the Administrative Law Judge in
deciding the issues at an administrative hearing is whether the preponderance
of the evidence shows that the violations exist.
   D.   Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and
present evidence in support of the party’s case. A written declaration signed
under penalty of perjury may be accepted in lieu of a personal appearance.
Testimony may be given by telephone or other electronic means.
   E.   All hearings are open to the public. They shall be recorded by audio
tape. Hearings may be held at the location of the violation.
   F.   The responsible person has a right to be represented by an attorney. If
an attorney will be representing the responsible person at the hearing, notice
of the attorney's name, address, and telephone number must be given to the Town
of Alta at least one day prior to the hearing. If notice is not given, the
hearing may be continued at the Town of Alta's request, and all costs of the
continuance assessed to the responsible person.
   G.   No new hearing shall be granted, unless the Administrative Law Judge
determines that extraordinary circumstances exist which justify a new hearing.
(Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-7-9: FAILURE TO ATTEND CIVIL CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:
Any party whose property or actions are the subject of any civil code
enforcement hearing and who fails to appear at the hearing is deemed to waive
the right to a hearing, and will result in a default judgment for the Town of
Alta, provided that proper notice of the hearing has been provided. (Ord. 2024-
O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-7-10: CIVIL CODE ENFORCEMENT ORDER:
   A.   Once all evidence and testimony are completed, the Administrative Law
Judge shall issue a civil code enforcement order that affirms, modifies, or
rejects the notice or citation. The Administrative Law Judge may increase or
decrease the total amount of civil penalties and costs that are due pursuant to
the Town of Alta's fee schedule and the procedures in this Title.
   B.   The parties may enter into a stipulated agreement, which must be signed
by both parties. This agreement shall be entered as a stipulated civil code
enforcement order. Entry of this agreement shall constitute a waiver of the
right to a hearing and the right to appeal.
   C.   The Administrative Law Judge may order the Town of Alta to enter the
property and abate all violations, including but not limited to demolitions and
the removal of vehicles, garbage, animals, and other property kept in violation
of the Town of Alta Code.
   D.   The Administrative Law Judge may revoke a kennel permit, an animal
license, or the right to possess animals as provided in the Town of Alta Code.
   E.   As part of the civil code enforcement order, the Administrative Law
Judge may condition the total or partial assessment of civil penalties on the
responsible person's ability to complete compliance by specified deadlines.
   F.   The Administrative Law Judge may schedule subsequent review hearings as
may be necessary or as requested by a party to the hearing to ensure compliance
with the civil code enforcement order.
   G.   The Administrative Law Judge may order the responsible person to post a
performance bond to ensure compliance with the order.
   H.   The civil code enforcement order shall become final on the date of the
signing of the order.
   I.   The civil code enforcement order shall be served on all parties by any
one of the methods listed in Section 12-1-12-1 of this Title. (Ord. 2024-O-4,
2-14-2024)
12-2-7-11: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER:
   A.   Upon the failure of the responsible person to comply with the terms and
deadlines set forth in the civil code enforcement order, the Town of Alta may
abate the violation as provided in Chapter 3, Part 3 of this Title and use all
appropriate legal means to recover the civil penalties and administrative costs
to obtain compliance.
   B.   After the Administrative Law Judge issues a civil code enforcement
order, the Administrative Law Judge shall monitor the violations and determine
compliance. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-2-8: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT APPEALS:
12-2-8-1: APPEAL OF CIVIL CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING DECISION:
   A.   Any person adversely affected by any decision made in the exercise of
the provisions of this Chapter may file a petition for review of the decision
or order by the district court within thirty (30) days after the decision is
rendered.
   B.   No person may challenge in district court a civil code enforcement
hearing officer's decision until that person has exhausted all administrative
remedies.
   C.   Within one hundred and twenty (120) days after submitting the petition,
the party petitioning for appeal shall request a copy of the record of the
proceedings, including transcripts of hearings when necessary. The
Administrative Law Judge shall not submit copies of files or transcripts to the
reviewing court until the party petitioning for appeal has paid all required
costs. The petitioning party's failure to properly arrange for copies of the
record, or to pay the full costs for the record, within one hundred and eighty
(180) days after the petition for review was filed shall be grounds for
dismissal of the petition.
      1.   If a transcript of a hearing cannot be prepared because the tape
recording is incomplete or unintelligible, the district court may, in its
discretion, remand the matter to the Administrative Law Judge for a
supplemental proceeding to complete the record. The district court may limit
the scope of the supplemental proceeding to issues that, in the court's
opinion, need to be clarified.
   D.   The district court's review is limited to the record of the
administrative decision that is being appealed. The court shall not accept nor
consider any evidence that is not part of the record of that decision.
   E.   The courts shall:
      1.   Presume that the civil code enforcement hearing officer's decision
and orders are valid; and
      2.   Review the record to determine whether or not the decision was
arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL REMEDIES
SECTION:
12-3-1: Declaration Of Purpose
12-3-2: Authority
12-3-3: Procedures For Recordation
12-3-4: Service Of Notice Of Recordation
12-3-5: Failure To Request
12-3-6: Notice Of Compliance - Procedures
12-3-7: Prohibition Against Issuance Of Municipal Permits
12-3-8: Cancellation Of Recorded Notice Of Violation
12-3-9: Administrative Civil Penalties
12-3-9-1: Authority
12-3-9-2: Procedures For Assessing Civil Penalties
12-3-9-3: Determination Of Civil Penalties
12-3-9-4: Modification Of Civil Penalties
12-3-9-5: Failure To Pay Penalties
12-3-10: Abatement Of Violation
12-3-10-1: Authority To Abate
12-3-10-2: Procedures For Abatement
12-3-11: Costs
12-3-11-1: Declaration Of Purpose
12-3-11-2: Authority
12-3-11-3: Notification Of Assessment Of Reinspection Fees
12-3-11-4: Failure To Timely Pay Costs
12-3-12: Administrative Fees
12-3-13: Civil Violations - Injunctions
12-3-14: Performance Bonds
12-3-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
The Council finds that there is a need for alternative methods of enforcement
for violations of the Town of Alta Code and applicable state codes that are
found to exist on real property. The Council further finds that an appropriate
method of enforcement for these types of violations is the issuance and
recordation of notices of violation. The procedures established in this Part
shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other remedy established by law
that may be pursued to address the violation of the Town of Alta Code or
applicable state codes. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-2: AUTHORITY:
Whenever the Town Manager determines that a property or violation has not been
brought into compliance as required in this Title, the Town Manager has the
authority and discretion, to record the notice of violation or civil code
enforcement order with the County Recorder's Office. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-3: PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION:
   A.   Once the Town Manager has issued a notice of violation to a responsible
person, and the property remains in violation after the deadline established in
the notice of violation, and no request for an administrative hearing has been
filed, the Town Manager shall record a notice of violation with the County
Recorder's Office.
   B.   If an administrative hearing is held, and an order is issued in the
Town of Alta's favor, the Town Manager shall record the civil code enforcement
order with the County Recorder's Office.
   C.   The recordation shall include the name of the property owner, the
parcel number, the legal description of the parcel, and a copy of the notice of
violation or order.
   D.   The recordation does not encumber the property, but merely places
future interested parties on notice of any continuing violation found upon the
property. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-4: SERVICE OF NOTICE OF RECORDATION:
A notice of the recordation shall be served on the responsible person and the
property owner pursuant to any of the methods of service set forth in Section
12-1-12-1 of this Title. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-5: FAILURE TO REQUEST:
The failure of any person to file a request for a civil code enforcement
hearing when served with a notice of violation shall constitute a waiver of the
right to an administrative hearing and shall not affect the validity of the
recorded notice of violation. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-6: NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE - PROCEDURES:
   A.   When the violations have been corrected, the responsible person or
property owner may request an inspection of the property from the Town Manager.
   B.   Upon receipt of a request for inspection, the Town Manager shall re-
inspect the property as soon as practicable to determine whether the violations
listed in the notice of violation or the order have been corrected, and whether
all necessary permits have been issued and final inspections have been
performed.
   C.   The Town Manager shall serve a notice of satisfaction to the
responsible person or property owner in the manner provided in Section 12-2-5-
1 of this Title, if the Town Manager determines that:
      1.   All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or order
have been corrected;
      2.   All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;
      3.   All civil penalties assessed against the property have been paid or
satisfied; and
      4.   The party requesting the notice of satisfaction has paid all
administrative fees and costs.
   D.   If the Town Manager denies a request to issue a notice of satisfaction,
upon request, the Town Manager shall serve the responsible person with a
written explanation setting forth the reasons for the denial. The written
explanation shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in Section
12-1-12-1 of this Title. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-7: PROHIBITION AGAINST ISSUANCE OF MUNICIPAL PERMITS:
The Town of Alta may withhold business licenses, or permits, for any
alteration, repair, or construction pertaining to any existing or new
structures or signs on the property, or any permits pertaining to the use and
development of the real property or the structure. The Town of Alta may
withhold permits until a notice of satisfaction has been issued by the Town
Manager. The Town of Alta may not withhold permits that are necessary to obtain
a notice of satisfaction or that are necessary to correct serious health and
safety violations. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-8: CANCELLATION OF RECORDED NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
The Town Manager or responsible person shall record the notice of satisfaction
with the County Recorder's Office. Recordation of the notice of satisfaction
shall cancel the recorded notice of violation. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-9: ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES:
12-3-9-1: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of the Town of Alta Code, or
applicable state codes, may be subject to the assessment of civil penalties for
each violation.
   B.   Each and every day a violation of any provision of the Town of Alta
Code or applicable state codes exists is a separate violation subject to the
assessment of civil penalties.
   C.   Civil penalties cannot be assessed when a criminal case has been filed
for the same date and violation, because fines will be assessed with the
criminal case.
   D.   Interest shall be assessed per Town of Alta policy, or at the judgment
rate provided in Utah Code Ann. § 15-1-4 (or successor statute/s) in the
absence of a Town of Alta policy, on all outstanding civil penalties balances
until the case has been paid in full.
   E.   Civil penalties for violations of any provision of the Town of Alta
Code or applicable state codes shall be assessed pursuant to the Town of Alta's
applicable fee schedule. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-9-2: PROCEDURES FOR ASSESSING CIVIL PENALTIES:
   A.   If a responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance
within ten (10) days of service of the notice of violation, civil penalties
shall be owed to the Town of Alta for each and every subsequent day of
violation.
   B.   Civil penalties are assessed and owing immediately for any violation of
the Town of Alta Code or applicable state codes for an administrative citation.
(Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-9-3: DETERMINATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES:
   A.   Civil penalties shall be assessed per violation per day pursuant to the
applicable Town of Alta fee schedule.
   B.   Civil penalties shall continue to accrue until the violation(s) has/
have been brought into compliance with the Town of Alta Code or applicable
state codes. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-9-4: MODIFICATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES:
   A.   Upon completion of the notice of violation or administrative
enforcement order, the responsible person may request a modification of the
civil penalties on a finding of good cause.
   B.   Civil penalties may be waived or modified by the Administrative Law
Judge upon a finding of good cause based on the responsible person's claim of
nonconforming use or conditional use; and
   C.   The Town of Alta's need to verify the claim; or
   D.   The responsible person's filing of an application for either use before
expiration of the date to correct. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-9-5: FAILURE TO PAY PENALTIES:
The failure of any person to pay civil penalties assessed within the specified
time may result in the Town Manager pursuing any legal remedy to collect the
civil penalties as provided in the law. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-10:   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION:
12-3-10-1: AUTHORITY TO ABATE:
The Town Manager is authorized to enter upon any property or premises to abate
the violation of the Town of Alta Code and applicable state codes pursuant to
this Part. The Town Manager is authorized to assess all costs for the abatement
to the responsible person and use any remedy available under the law to collect
the costs.
If additional abatements are necessary within two (2) years, treble costs may
be assessed against the responsible person(s) for the actual abatement. (Ord.
2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-10-2: PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT:
   A.   The Town Manager may abate a violation pursuant to this Part after
providing notice under Section 12-2-2 and by following the process set forth in
Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or successor statute(s) if the Responsible Party or
Parties:
      1.   Do not abate a violation within the time period prescribed in a
notice issued pursuant to Sections 12-2-2 and 12-2-6, et seq.; and
      2.   The Responsible Party or Parties did not file a request for a civil
code enforcement hearing under Section 12-2-7-3.
   B.   The Town Manager may request a default hearing pursuant to Section 12-
2-7-4 but is not required to do so to abate the violation under this Part and
may abate the violation without a default hearing pursuant to Utah Code Ann.
§ 10-11-3 or successor statute(s).
   C.   The Town Manager may use Town of Alta personnel or by a private
contractor to abate the violation.
   D.   Town of Alta personnel or a private contractor may enter upon private
property in a reasonable manner to abate the ordinance violation as specified
in the notice of violation or civil code enforcement order.
   E.   If the responsible person abates the violation before the Town of Alta
performs the actual abatement pursuant to a notice of violation or civil code
enforcement order, the Town Manager may still assess all costs incurred by the
Town of Alta against the responsible person.
   F.   When the abatement is completed, the Town Manager shall prepare an
itemized statement of the work performed that complies with Utah Code Ann. §
10-11-3 or successor statute(s).
   G.   The Town Manager shall serve the itemized statement on the responsible
person in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or successor statute(s).
   H.   The Administrative Law Judge shall hear any appeals filed by a
responsible person in response to an itemized statement issued under this Part
and shall conduct such appeals and any related hearings in accordance with Utah
Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or successor statute(s). (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-11: COSTS:
12-3-11-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
   A.   The Council finds that there is a need to recover costs incurred by
enforcement officials and other Town of Alta personnel who spend considerable
time inspecting and re-inspecting properties throughout the Town of Alta in an
effort to ensure compliance with the Town of Alta Code or applicable state
codes.
   B.   The Council further finds that the assessment of costs is an
appropriate method to recover expenses incurred for actual costs of abating
violations, re-inspection fees, filing fees, attorney fees, hearing officer
fees, title search, and any additional actual costs incurred by the Town of
Alta for each individual case. The assessment and collection of costs shall not
preclude the imposition of any administrative or judicial civil penalties or
fines for violations of the Town of Alta Code or applicable state codes. (Ord.
2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-11-2: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Whenever actual costs are incurred by the Town of Alta on a property to
obtain compliance with provisions of the Town of Alta Code and applicable state
codes, the Town Manager may assess costs against the responsible person.
   B.   Once a notice of violation has been issued, the property will be
inspected one time. Any additional inspections shall be subject to re-
inspection fees pursuant to the applicable Town of Alta fee schedule as adopted
in the Town of Alta's annual budget. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-11-3: NOTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENT OF REINSPECTION FEES:
   A.   Notification of any applicable re-inspection fees adopted by the Town
of Alta shall be provided on the notice of violation served to the responsible
person(s).
   B.   Re-inspection fees assessed or collected pursuant to this Part shall
not be included in any other costs assessed.
   C.   The failure of any responsible person to receive notice of the re-
inspection fees shall not affect the validity of any other fees imposed under
this Part. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-11-4: FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY COSTS:
The failure of any person to pay assessed costs by the deadline specified in
the invoice shall result in a late fee pursuant to Town of Alta policy. (Ord.
2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-12:   ADMINISTRATIVE FEES:
The Town Manager or the Administrative Law Judge is authorized to assess
administrative fees for costs incurred in the administration of this program,
such as investigation of violations, preparation for hearings, hearings, and
the collection process. The fee assessed shall be the actual amount of
administrative fees incurred by the Town in the action or an amount specified
in the fee schedule. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-3-13: CIVIL VIOLATIONS - INJUNCTIONS:
In addition to any other remedy provided under the Town of Alta Code or state
codes, including criminal prosecution or administrative remedies, any provision
of the Town of Alta Code may be enforced by injunction issued in the Third
District Court upon a suit brought by the Town of Alta. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-
2024)
12-3-14: PERFORMANCE BONDS:
   A.   As part of any notice, order, or action, the Town Manager or
Administrative Law Judge has the authority to require responsible persons to
post a performance bond to ensure compliance with the Town of Alta Code,
applicable state codes, or any judicial action.
   B.   If the responsible person fails to comply with the notice, order, or
action, the bond will be forfeited to the Town of Alta. The bond will not be
used to offset the other outstanding costs and fees associated with the case.
(Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
CHAPTER 4
RECOVERY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES AND COSTS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Code Enforcement Tax Liens
12-4-1-1: Declaration Of Purpose
12-4-1-2: Procedures For Tax Liens Without A Judgement
12-4-1-3: Procedures For Tax Lien With A Judgement
12-4-1-4: Cancellation Of Code Enforcement Tax Lien
12-4-2: Recovery Of Costs By Writ Of Execution
12-4-3: Recovery Of Costs By Writ Of Garnishment
12-4-4: Allocation Of Funds Collected Under Civil Code Enforcement Hearing
Program
12-4-4-1: Abatement Fund
12-4-4-2: Repayment Of Abatement Fund
12-4-4-3: Code Enforcement Administrative Fees And Cost Fund
12-4-4-4: Allocation Of Civil Penalties
12-4-1: CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIENS:
12-4-1-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
The Council finds that recordation of code enforcement tax liens will assist in
the collection of civil penalties, administrative costs, and administrative
fees assessed by the civil code enforcement hearing program or judicial orders.
The Council further finds that collection of civil penalties, costs, and fees
assessed for code enforcement violations is important in deterring future
violations and maintaining the integrity of the Town of Alta's code enforcement
system. The procedures established in this Part shall be used to complement
existing administrative or judicial remedies that may be pursued to address
violations of the Town of Alta Code or applicable state codes. (Ord. 2024-O-4,
2-14-2024)
12-4-1-2: PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITHOUT A JUDGEMENT:
   A.   Once the Town of Alta has abated a property for weeds, garbage, refuse,
or unsightly or deleterious objects or structures, the Town Manager shall
prepare three copies of the Itemized Statement of Costs incurred in the removal
and destruction of the violations and deliver them to the Town of Alta Mayor
within ten (10) days after completion of the work of removing the violations.
   B.   The Town Manager shall send, by registered mail to the property owner's
last known address, a copy of the Itemized Statement of Costs informing the
property owner that a code enforcement tax lien is being recorded for the
amount of actual costs of abatement. Payment shall be due within twenty (20)
calendar days from the date of mailing.
   C.   Upon receipt of the Itemized Statement of Costs, the Town of Alta Mayor
shall record a Code Enforcement Tax Lien against the property with the County
Treasurer's office.
   D.   The failure of any person with a financial interest in the property to
actually receive the notice of the lien shall not affect the validity of the
lien or any proceedings taken to collect the outstanding costs of abatement.
(Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-4-1-3: PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIEN WITH A JUDGEMENT:
Once a judgment has been obtained from the appropriate court assessing costs
against the responsible person(s), the Town Manager may record a code
enforcement tax lien against any real property owned by the responsible person
(s). (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-4-1-4: CANCELLATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIEN:
Once payment in full is received for the outstanding civil penalties and costs,
or the amount is deemed satisfied pursuant to a subsequent administrative or
judicial order, the Town Manager shall either record a Notice of Satisfaction
of Judgment, or provide the property owner or financial institution with the
Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment so that it can record this notice with the
County Recorder's office. The notice of satisfaction of judgment shall include
the same information as provided for in the original Code Enforcement Tax Lien.
Such notice of satisfaction of judgment shall cancel the code enforcement tax
lien. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-4-2: RECOVERY OF COSTS BY WRIT OF EXECUTION:
After obtaining a judgment, the Town Manager may collect the obligation by use
of all appropriate legal means. This may include the execution on personal
property owned by the responsible person by filing a writ with the applicable
court. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-4-3: RECOVERY OF COSTS BY WRIT OF GARNISHMENT:
After obtaining a judgment, the Town Manager may collect the obligation by use
of all appropriate legal means. This may include the garnishment of paychecks,
financial accounts, and other income or financial assets by filing a writ with
the applicable court. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-4-4: ALLOCATION OF FUNDS COLLECTED UNDER CIVIL CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING
PROGRAM:
12-4-4-1: ABATEMENT FUND:
There is, hereby established, a revolving fund to be known as the "Abatement
Fund" to defray costs of administrative and judicial abatements. The fund shall
be reimbursed by collection from the property or property owner as specified in
this Title and by the courts. The Town of Alta Council shall establish
accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification, credit, and
collection. This fund may be operated and used in conjunction with procedures
ordered or authorized under the abatement provision of this Title. (Ord. 2024-
O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-4-4-2: REPAYMENT OF ABATEMENT FUND:
All monies recovered from the sale or transfer of property or by payment for
the actual abatement costs shall be paid to the Town of Alta Treasurer, who
shall credit the appropriate amount to the Abatement Fund. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-
14-2024)
12-4-4-3: CODE ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND COST FUND:
Administrative fees and administrative costs, except for actual abatement
costs, collected pursuant to this Part shall be deposited in a fund established
by the Town of Alta Council for the enhancement of the Town of Alta's code
enforcement efforts and to reimburse the Town of Alta for investigative costs
and costs associated with the hearing process. Fees and costs deposited in this
fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner determined by the Town of
Alta Council. The Town of Alta Council shall establish accounting procedures in
consultation with the Town of Alta Budget Officer to ensure proper account
identification, credit, and collection. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
12-4-4-4: ALLOCATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES:
Civil penalties collected pursuant to this Part shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the Town of Alta. Civil penalties deposited in this fund shall
be appropriated and allocated in a manner determined by the Town of Alta
Manager and the Town of Alta Council. The Town of Alta Council shall establish
accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification, credit, and
collection. (Ord. 2024-O-4, 2-14-2024)
