COUNTY CODE
OF
BEAVER COUNTY, UT
2020
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-05, passed 6-10-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the County Code of Beaver County, as supplemented,
contains ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-05, passed June 10,
2025. Ordinances of the County adopted after said ordinance supersede the
provisions of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent
therewith. Consult the County office in order to ascertain whether any
particular provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO 2015-05
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE BEAVER UTAH, COUNTY CODE
   PREAMBLE
   In order to provide for the health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of Beaver County, the Beaver County commission as the county
legislative body of Beaver County has arranged for the compilation, revision or
codification of the Beaver County code.
   WHEREAS, the county legislative body of Beaver County desires to compile,
revise and codify all the ordinances of a general and permanent character for
Beaver County; and
   WHEREAS, the county legislative body of Beaver County is authorized to
publish such compilation, revision and codification in book form;
   NOW THEREFORE, THE COUNTY LEGISLATIVE BODY OF THE COUNTY OF BEAVER, STATE OF
UTAH, ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the county
code of Beaver County, Utah prepared by Sterling Codifiers, containing the
compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the
county, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code
and law of the county as enacted by the legislative body of Beaver County.
   Section 2: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
county code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official county code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the county code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
official county code.
   Section 3: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 4: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 5: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
Passed by the legislative body of Beaver County this  4  day of  May , 2015, by
the following vote:
Ayes:            Nays:         Absent:
         THE LEGISLATIVE BODY OF BEAVER COUNTY
               By                        
                MICHAEL F. DALTON, Chairman
               
GINGER MCMULLIN
Beaver County Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
BEAVER COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the board of county commissioners, this code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official county code of
Beaver County. This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the BEAVER
COUNTY CODE and is hereby published by authority of the board of county
commissioners and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent
legislation of the county as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2004 Code § 1-101; amd. 2015 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the county of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2015 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2015 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
board of county commissioners. The county clerk shall see that the replacement
pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of
the county clerk. Any person having custody of a copy of this code shall make
every effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered or made available to such person through the
office of the county clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of
officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the
county and shall be returned to the office of the county clerk when directed so
to do by order of the board of county commissioners. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the county passed prior
to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the county; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2015 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2015 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the county herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the county under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2015 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The board of county commissioners hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2004 Code §
1-107; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction:
      1.   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in
this code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and
meaning of the county council may be fully carried out.
      2.   In the construction of this code, and all ordinances mandatory
thereof or hereafter enacted, the rules in this chapter shall be observed and
applied, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest
intent of this code.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: The time within which an act is to be done as
provided in any ordinance or in any resolution or order of this county, when
expressed in days, shall be determined by excluding the first day and including
the last day, except if the last day be a Sunday or a holiday, then the last
day shall be the day next following such Sunday or holiday which is not a
Sunday and all holidays shall be excluded.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other county officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees: Whenever any officer or employee is referred by
title, such reference shall be construed as if followed by the words "of Beaver
County".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
county has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the county's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2004
Code § 1-105; amd. 2015 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
BOARD OF HEALTH: The Southwest Utah health department, or such other
organization appointed by the board of county commissioners to act as the board
of health of Beaver County.
BUSINESS: Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation or
enterprise for which a license is required by any ordinance of this county.
CODE: The county code of Beaver County.
COMMISSION: The board of county commissioners of Beaver County, Utah.
COUNTY: The portions of Beaver County, Utah, outside the limits of incorporated
cities or towns therein.
COUNTY ATTORNEY: The county attorney of Beaver County, Utah.
COUNTY AUDITOR: The county auditor of Beaver County, Utah.
COUNTY SHERIFF: The county sheriff of Beaver County, Utah.
COUNTY TREASURER: The county treasurer of Beaver County, Utah.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the county for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to county regulation,
authorization or limitation.
GOVERNING BODY: The board of county commissioners of Beaver County.
HIGHWAY, ROAD: Includes public bridges and may be equivalent to the words
"county way", "county road", "common road" and "state road". It may also
include sidewalks or crosswalks.
LOCATION: Whenever any act, conduct or offense is prohibited or required and no
reference is made to location, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the act, conduct or offense prohibited or required shall be within
the boundaries of this county.
OFFENSE: Any act, action or conduct prohibited by this code or the failure to
perform any acts required in this code.
OFFICER OR OFFICIALS: Any elected or appointed person employed by the county,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
PERSON: Includes all individuals, both male and female, any governmental
agency, corporation, partnership, association, company, and every other form of
organization whether formed voluntarily or involuntarily.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
STATE: The state of Utah.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks and
intersections.
TENANT, OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
WEEK: Shall be construed to mean any seven (7) day period.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2004 Code § 1-105; amd. 2015 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2004
Code § 1-106; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-3: Responsibility Of Person For Conduct In Name Of Corporation Or Business
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 :
      1.   Specified: The county legislative body may enforce obedience to
ordinances by punishment, not to exceed the maximum fine for a class B
misdemeanor under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301, imprisonment, or by
both fine and imprisonment.
      2.   Traffic; Parking:
         a.   Except as specifically authorized by statute, the county
legislative body may not impose a civil penalty for the violation of a county
traffic ordinance.
         b.   Subsection A2a of this section does not apply to an ordinance
regulating the parking of vehicles on a highway.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction.
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the county, or for an
offense defined outside of this code over which this county has jurisdiction,
for which no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount
fixed by the court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (2004 Code § 1-109; amd. 2015 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 17-53-223.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 1. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 2. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this county shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this county when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this county, or which is expressly designated an infraction and
any offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this county which is
not designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (2015 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. UCA § 76-3-104.
1-4-3: RESPONSIBILITY OF PERSON FOR CONDUCT IN NAME OF CORPORATION OR BUSINESS:
A person is criminally liable for conduct constituting an offense when he
performs or causes to be performed in the name of or in behalf of a corporation
or association to the same extent as if such conduct were performed in his own
name or behalf. A corporation or association is guilty of an offense when:
   A.   The conduct constituting the offense consists of an omission to
discharge a specific duty or affirmative performance imposed on corporations or
associations by law; or
   B.   The conduct constituting the offense is authorized, solicited,
requested, commanded or undertaken, performed or recklessly tolerated by the
board of directors or by a partner in a partnership, an officer of corporation
or association, or an agent of a corporation or association who has duties of
such responsibility that his conduct reasonably may be assumed to represent the
policy of the corporation or association. (2004 Code § 1-110)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Meetings
1-5-2: Ordinances
1-5-1: MEETINGS:
   A.   Meetings of the board of county commissioners for the purpose of
handling all matters and transacting the business of the county shall occur at
such times as decided prudent and necessary by the County Commission but no
less than twice a month, in the Beaver County Administration Building;
provided, that when any such day shall fall on a legal holiday then and in that
event such regular meeting shall be convened the next day following such day
which itself is not a legal holiday; and, provided further, that any regular
meeting of the board of county commissioners may, having been convened, be
recessed, continued or adjourned from hour to hour, day to day, or time to time
unless forbidden in a particular case by law at the judgment and discretion of
the board of county commissioners. The county legislative body may cancel a
regular meeting as the county legislative body considers appropriate.
   B.   Electronic Meetings shall be held at the discretion of the County
Commission and shall follow the requirements as set forth in Utah Code Ann. §
52-4-207. (2015 Code; amd. Ord. 2020-06, - -2020; Ord. 2022-11, 10-4-2022; Ord.
2024-01, 3-5-2024)
1-5-2: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Enacting Clause: The enacting clause of all ordinances of the county
legislative body shall be as follows: "The county legislative body of Beaver
County ordains as follows:".
   B.   Signatures; Recordkeeping: Every ordinance shall be signed by the chair
of the county legislative body and attested by the clerk. On the passage of all
ordinances, the votes of the several members of the county legislative body
shall be entered on the minutes, and all ordinances shall be entered at length
in the ordinance book.
   C.   Effective Date; Requirements; Publication:
      1.   No ordinance passed by the county legislative body may take effect
within less than fifteen (15) days after its passage.
      2.   The legislative body adopting an ordinance shall, before the
ordinance may take effect:
         a.   Deposit a copy of the ordinance in the office of the county
clerk; and
         b.   (1) Publish a short summary of the ordinance, together with a
statement that a complete copy of the ordinance is available at the county
clerk's office and with the name of the members voting for and against the
ordinance:
               (A)   For at least one publication in:
                  (i)   A newspaper published in and having general circulation
in the county, if there is one; or
                  (ii)   If there is none published in the county, in a
newspaper of general circulation within the county; and
               (B)   As required in Utah Code Annotated section 45-1-101; or
            (2)   Post a complete copy of the ordinance in nine (9) public
places within the county.
   D.   Adoptions By Reference: Any ordinance printed by authority of the
county legislative body in book form or electronic media, or any general
revision of county ordinances printed in book form or electronic media, may be
adopted by an ordinance making reference to the printed ordinance or revision
if a copy of the ordinance or revision is filed in the office of the county
clerk at the time of adoption for use and examination by the public.
   E.   Construction Related Ordinances: Ordinances establishing rules and
regulations, printed as a code in book form or electronic media, for the
construction of buildings, the installation of plumbing, the installation of
electric wiring, or other related or similar work may be adopted by reference
to the code book if a copy of the code book is filed in the office of the
county clerk at the time of the adoption of the ordinance for use and
examination by the public.
   F.   Immediate Effect: Ordinances that in the opinion of the county
legislative body are necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace,
health or safety of the county and the county's inhabitants may, if so provided
in the ordinance, take effect immediately upon publication in one issue of a
newspaper published in and having general circulation in the county, if there
is one, and if there is none published in the county, then immediately after
posting at the courthouse door.
   G.   Later Effective Date: An ordinance may take effect at a later date than
provided in this section, if the ordinance so provides.
   H.   Proof Of Publication, Posting: An order entered in the minutes of the
county legislative body that an ordinance has been duly published or posted
shall be prima facie proof of the publication or posting.
   I.   Numbering Ordinances:
      1.   The county clerk shall, in so far as possible, assign all ordinances
of a general nature adopted after these revised ordinances, a number which
shall conform to the numbering system used in this code and shall indicate upon
the face of the ordinance the date adopted.
      2.   The county clerk shall keep all ordinances of a local, private or
temporary nature, including franchises, grants, dedications, bond issues and
tax levies, in a separate book of ordinances properly indexed and organized
according to date adopted. The first number of such an ordinance shall be the
year the ordinance is adopted, followed by a dash which is followed by a number
indicating the order in which such ordinance was adopted during the year.
      3.   Failure to comply with this section shall not affect or render
invalid any ordinance of this municipality. (2004 Code § 1-108; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Official Bonds
1-6-1: OFFICIAL BONDS:
Before entering upon the discharge of their respective offices, the following
county, precinct and district officers, and county employees shall execute, as
required by law, official bonds running to the county, said bond to be in the
following amounts respectively:
County treasurer          $130,000.00
County clerk/auditor      10,000.00
County sheriff            5,000.00
County attorney           5,000.00
County recorder           5,000.00
County assessor           5,000.00
County surveyor           5,000.00
Justice of the peace      10,000.00
Assistant county assessor 5,000.00
 
(2004 Code § 1-112)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTION PRECINCTS FOR JUSTICES AND CONSTABLES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Purpose
1-7-2: Precincts Established
1-7-1: PURPOSE:
The establishment of precincts as herein accomplished is hereby declared to be
required for the public convenience of the county and the inhabitants thereof.
(2004 Code § 1-214)
1-7-2: PRECINCTS ESTABLISHED:
The county is hereby divided into precincts for the purpose of electing
justices of the peace and constables and for the functioning of those officials
and said precincts are hereby established as follows:
Beaver Precinct: A precinct, hereby designated as the Beaver precinct, shall
include what is now constituted as Beaver no. 1 voting district, Beaver no. 2
voting district and Greenville voting district and shall consist of the
following described territory:
That portion of the eastern part of Beaver County which is bounded on the
north, east and south by the county boundary and on the west by the following
described boundary: Beginning at a point where the line dividing Ranges 8 and 9
West intersects with the Beaver-Iron County Line, and running thence North 6
miles to the Southeast corner of Township 29 South, Range 9 West; thence West 6
miles to the Southwest corner of said township; thence North along the line
dividing Ranges 9 and 10 West to the Beaver-Millard County line.
Minersville Precinct: A precinct, hereby designated as the Minersville
precinct, shall include what is now constituted as Minersville voting district
and shall consist of the following described territory:
Beginning at the point where the line dividing Ranges 8 and 9 West intersects
with the Beaver-Iron County Line, and running thence North 6 miles to the
southeast corner of Township 29 South, Range 9 West; thence West 6 miles to the
Southwest corner of said Township; thence North 3 miles to the Northeast corner
of Section 24, Township 29 South, Range 10 West; thence West to the Union
Pacific Railroad track; thence Southwest along said railroad track to the
Beaver-Iron County line; thence East to the point of beginning.
Milford Precinct: A precinct, hereby designated as the Milford precinct, shall
include what is now constituted as Milford no. 1 voting district and Milford
no. 2 voting district and shall consist of the following described territory:
That portion of the western part of Beaver County which is bounded on the north
by the Beaver-Millard County line, on the west by the Utah-Nevada state line,
on the south by the Beaver-Iron County line, and on the east by the following
boundary: Beginning at a point where the Beaver-Millard County Line intersects
with the range line dividing Ranges 9 and 10 West; and running thence South
along said range line to the Northeast corner of Section 24, Township 29 South,
Range 10 West; thence West to the Union Pacific Railroad track; thence
Southwest along said railroad track to the Beaver-Iron County Line.
   (2004 Code § 1-210)
CHAPTER 8
CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Definitions
1-8-2: Financial Statements
1-8-3: Contributions
1-8-4: Compliance
1-8-5: Eliminated Candidates
1-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein:
CONTRIBUTION: Includes monetary contributions and nonmonetary contributions,
such as in-kind contributions and contributions of tangible things.
EXPENDITURE: Monetary expenditures and nonmonetary expenditures, such as in-
kind contributions and contributions of tangible things. (2004 Code § 1-401;
amd. Ord. 2020-05, 3-17-2020)
1-8-2: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
Candidates filing for county office or local school board office who reside in
this county shall report the candidate's itemized and total campaign
contributions and expenditures to the County Clerk fourteen (14) days before
the date of the regular primary election and the regular general election and
no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the regular general election.
If the reporting deadline falls on a weekend or holiday, the report will be due
the following business day.
The statement filed fourteen (14) days before the regular primary election and
the regular general election shall include:
   A.   For each contribution, the name of the donor of the contribution, if
known, and the amount of the contribution; and
   B.   For each expenditure, the name of the recipient and the amount of the
expenditure.(2004 Code § 1-402; amd. Ord. 2020-05, 3-17-2020; Ord. 2020-09, 7-
21-2020)
1-8-3: CONTRIBUTIONS:
Each candidate shall deposit contributions in a separate campaign account in a
financial institution:
   A.   It is prohibited for any candidate for county office or local school
board office to deposit or mingle any contributions received into a personal or
business account; and
   B.   It is required that a candidate for county office who receives a
contribution that is cash or a negotiable instrument, exceeds fifty dollars
($50.00), and is from a donor whose name is unknown, shall, within thirty (30)
days after receiving the contribute contribution disburse the amount of the
contribution to:
      1.   The treasurer of the state or a political subdivision for deposit
into the state's or political subdivision's general fund; or
      2.   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
Section 501(c)(3), Internal Revenue Code.
   C.   A candidate for county office or local school board office shall
include on a financial report filed in accordance with the ordinance a
contribution deposited in or an expenditure made from an account:
      1.   Since the last financial report was filed; or
      2.   That has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that governs
the account. (Ord. 2020-05, 3-17-2020)
1-8-4: COMPLIANCE:
Failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter may result in fines,
sanctions and enforcement actions including disqualification as provided in
U.C.A. § 17-16-6.5. (Ord. 2020-05, 3-17-2020)
1-8-5: ELIMINATED CANDIDATES:
Candidates for elective county office and candidates for local school board
office who are eliminated at a regular primary election shall file a signed
campaign financial statement containing the information required in section
1-8-3  of this chapter thirty (30) days after the regular primary election. If
the reporting deadline falls on a weekend or holiday, the report will be due
the following business day. (Ord. 2020-09, 7-21-2020)
CHAPTER 9
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKINGS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Purpose
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Guidelines
1-9-4: Analysis
1-9-5: Appeals
1-9-6: Limitations
1-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide advisory guidelines for the county to
assist the county in identifying actions that involve physical taking or
exaction of private real property that may have constitutional taking issues.
(2004 Code § 1-301)
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein, "constitutional taking issues" means actions involving the
physical or regulatory taking of private real property by the county that might
require compensation to a private real property owner under:
   A.   The fifth or fourteenth amendment of the constitution of the United
States;
   B.   Article 1, section 22 of the Utah constitution; or
   C.   Any recent court rulings governing the physical or regulatory taking of
private real property by a governmental entity. (2004 Code § 1-302)
1-9-3: GUIDELINES:
The following guidelines shall be considered by the county when taking any
action that might result in the physical or regulatory taking of private real
property. The county should review the following to determine and identify
whether a proposed governmental action raises constitutional taking issues:
   A.   Does the action result in a permanent physical occupation of private
property?
   B.   Does the action require a property owner to dedicate property or grant
an easement to the county?
   C.   Does the action deprive the property owner of all economically viable
uses of the property?
   D.   Does the action have a severe impact on the property owner's economic
interest?
   E.   Does the action deny a fundamental attribute of ownership? (2004 Code §
1-303)
1-9-4: ANALYSIS:
If the county determines that a governmental action involves constitutional
taking issues, the proposed action should be reviewed by the county to analyze
the possible taking and to determine the action to be taken. In reviewing the
proposed action, the following factors may be analyzed:
   A.   The affect the potential taking would have on the use or value of the
private property;
   B.   The likelihood that the action may result in a constitutional taking;
   C.   Any alternatives to the proposed action that would fulfill the county's
lawful objectives and reduce the risk of a constitutional taking;
   D.   The cost to the county for payment of compensation if a taking is
determined;
   E.   The governmental interest involved and its nexus to the potential
taking; and
   F.   If the action is roughly proportionate or reasonably related to the
impact of any proposed development. (2004 Code § 1-304)
1-9-5: APPEALS:
   A.   Any owner of private property whose interest in the property is subject
to a physical or regulatory taking by the county, pursuant to a final and
authoritative decision or action of the county, may appeal the county's
decision or action by filing a written notice of appeal and statement of the
grounds for the appeal in the county recorder's office within thirty (30) days
from the date of the county's decision or action.
   B.   The county commission or its designee shall hear all evidence regarding
the appeal and render its decision and findings in writing within fourteen (14)
days. If the county fails to hear and decide the appeal within fourteen (14)
days, the original decision or action by the county, which has been appealed by
the owner of the private property, is presumed to be approved. (2004 Code § 1-
305)
1-9-6: LIMITATIONS:
The guidelines set forth herein are advisory only and shall not be construed to
expand or limit the scope of the county's liability for a constitutional
taking. The county shall have no legal liability to any person, firm or entity
of any nature whatsoever and a court may not impose liability upon the county
for failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter. (2004 Code § 1-306)
CHAPTER 10
DISPOSAL OF COUNTY REAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Significant Parcel Of Real Property Defined
1-10-2: Public Comment
1-10-3: Reasonable Notice
1-10-1: SIGNIFICANT PARCEL OF REAL PROPERTY DEFINED:
For the purposes of this chapter, a "significant parcel of real property" is a
parcel of real property one-fourth (1/4) acre or larger, or a smaller parcel of
real property with a value as determined by the county assessor greater than
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00). (Ord. 2007-10, 11-13-2007)
1-10-2: PUBLIC COMMENT:
Before the county may dispose of a significant parcel of real property, the
county shall provide reasonable notice of the proposed disposition and allow
the opportunity for public comment on the proposed disposition. (Ord. 2007-10,
11-13-2007)
1-10-3: REASONABLE NOTICE:
For the purposes of this chapter, reasonable notice shall consist of at least
one publication in a newspaper in general circulation in the county and posting
public notice of the public hearing in at least three (3) public places within
the county, all at least fourteen (14) days before the public hearing. (Ord.
2007-10, 11-13-2007)
CHAPTER 11
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Fees For County Services
1-11-2: Hazardous Materials Emergencies; Recovery Of Expenses
1-11-3: 911 Emergency Telephone Assessment
1-11-4: Burial Expenses For Unclaimed Bodies And Indigent Decedents
1-11-1: FEES FOR COUNTY SERVICES:
It is appropriate, reasonable and lawful for the county to assess and collect
fees and charges from those people requesting or receiving service from the
county. Such fees and charges do not include fees and charges which have been
established by statute or contract. A specific schedule of fees and charges
shall be adopted by resolution of the governing body. (2004 Code § 1-221)
1-11-2: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCIES; RECOVERY OF EXPENSES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms,
phrases and words shall have the following meanings:
    EXPENSES: All costs incurred for the response, containment and/or removal
and disposal of hazardous materials on initial remedial action. It includes,
but is not necessarily limited to, the actual labor costs of government and
other personnel, including workers' compensation benefits, fringe benefits,
administrative overhead, and any costs of equipment, equipment operation,
materials, disposal and any contract labor or materials.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY: A sudden and unexpected release of any
substance that, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics, presents a direct and immediate threat to public
safety or the environment, and requires immediate action to mitigate the
threat.
   B.   Recovery Of Expenses:
      1.   Those persons or entities whose actions cause or property creates,
in whole or in part, a hazardous materials emergency within the boundaries of
the county are liable to the county for all costs and expenses incurred in or
arising from response to such hazardous materials emergency by the county and
any other political subdivision, agency or cooperative entity. The county shall
recover all such costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees,
litigation expenses and court costs incurred in, related to or arising out of,
all cost recovery efforts and enforcement of the terms of this section.
      2.   All costs and expenses shall be billed at the current rate
established and approved by resolution of the executive committee of the
interlocal agreement for cooperative hazardous materials protection and
services.
      3.   The payment of expenses under this section does not constitute an
admission of liability or negligence in any legal action for damages.
   C.   Cost Recovery Procedure:
      1.   The county shall investigate and determine the person or entity
responsible for causing or creating the hazardous materials emergency and shall
notify the responsible party in writing of said determination of responsibility
and the amount of costs and expenses incurred by the county in responding to
the hazardous materials emergency.
      2.   The notice required by subsection C1 of this section shall specify
that the party determined to be responsible for causing or creating the
hazardous materials emergency has the right to appeal the decision determining
responsibility to the governing body and shall specify a deadline for filing
the notice of appeal and the person or office in which it must be filed. The
deadline for filing the notice of appeal shall not be less than fifteen (15)
days from the date of the notice.
      3.   In the event a notice of appeal is filed, the hearing before the
governing body shall be an informal public hearing, and the parties shall not
be required to adhere to the Utah rules of civil procedure or evidence. The
appealing party and the county shall each be entitled to present evidence and
argument in support of their respective positions, in accordance with
procedures established at the hearing by the governing body.
      4.   The decision of the governing body shall be final.
   D.   Action To Recover Costs: In the event the responsible party fails or
refuses to pay all of the costs and expenses determined by the county related
to or arising out of the county's response to the hazardous materials emergency
within thirty (30) days after assessment or after the governing body's decision
on an appeal, the county may initiate a legal action to recover such costs,
including reasonable attorney fees and costs.
   E.   Expenses Of Other Responding Entities:
      1.   In the event that personnel and equipment from other political
subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities shall respond to assist with the
hazardous materials emergency, then the county shall recover costs and expenses
incurred by such other political subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities
as part of the county's cost recovery efforts.
      2.   Upon recovery of costs and expenses from the responsible party, the
county is authorized to reimburse such other political subdivisions, agencies
or cooperative entities for their actual costs incurred in responding to the
hazardous materials emergency. (Ord. 2003-01A, 2-10-2003)
1-11-3: 911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE ASSESSMENT:
The county, as the sponsoring agency of a 911 emergency telephone system,
hereby assesses and levies an emergency telephone charge in an amount of fifty
three cents ($0.53) per month on each local exchange access line or radio
communications access line assigned to a customer with a mailing address within
the county. (Ord. 2003-01B, 4-7-2003)
1-11-4: BURIAL EXPENSES FOR UNCLAIMED BODIES AND INDIGENT DECEDENTS:
   A.   Unclaimed Bodies: In accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 26-4-
25, which addresses the burial of unclaimed bodies, the county shall provide a
decent burial for a body found in the county which is unclaimed, unless it is
requested by the college of medicine of the University Of Utah and the burial
requirement under Utah Code Annotated section 26-4-27(2) does not apply because
the identity of the body is known. Services rendered by a funeral director
shall be paid for by the county as outlined below:
      1.   Unless otherwise directed by the county attorney to preserve
evidence for a criminal investigation and/or prosecution, all burials shall be
done under the most economical price or plan offered by the funeral director.
The term "decent burial" shall include the process of cremation and burial of
the unclaimed body.
      2.   In accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 26-4-27(2), when the
identity of the unclaimed body is unknown, the county shall adopt and use a
unique identifying number in all records created by the county that pertain to
the body. If the county receives a body back from the Utah state medical
examiner, then the county shall use the same unique identifying number used by
the medical examiner. The county shall require any funeral director or sexton
who is involved in the disposition of the body to adopt or use the same
identifying number assigned by the county and the state medical examiner (if
applicable).
   B.   Indigent Decedents: In keeping with the provisions of Utah Code
Annotated section 10-8-74 and 17-53-221(1)(b), the county may pay for the cost
of burial of indigent decedents under the following terms and conditions:
      1.   Unless otherwise directed by the county attorney to preserve
evidence for a criminal investigation and/or prosecution, all burials shall be
done under the most economical price or plan offered by the funeral director.
The term "burial" or "decent burial" shall include the process of cremation and
burial of the unclaimed body.
      2.   No money shall be disbursed by the county for the funeral expenses
of an indigent decedent unless the person or persons claiming the body first
makes application to the county clerk on a form prepared and provided by said
clerk.
         a.   All application forms shall be signed by the applicant under
oath.
         b.   For purposes of this policy, "indigent decedent" means a deceased
person who at the time of his or her demise owned no money or other assets
which could be sold and used to pay for the cost of the funeral under the most
economical price or plan offered by the funeral director, as indicated above.
         c.   The indigence of the persons applying for financial assistance
from the county shall also be considered in accepting or rejecting an
application for financial assistance from the county under the same standard
outlined above.
         d.   An application which fails to demonstrate indigence under the
terms and conditions outlined above shall be rejected by the county clerk, and
the county shall not pay the requested funeral expenses.
         e.   A claimant whose applications is denied by the county clerk may
appeal the decision to the county commission within ten (10) days of the
issuance of the denial. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 12
PUBLIC FUNDS FOR PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
SECTION:
1-12-1: Screening Process To Use Public Funds For A Private Enterprise Project
1-12-2: Appeal By Beaver County Citizens
1-12-3: Issuing Funds For Private Enterprise Project
1-12-1: SCREENING PROCESS TO USE PUBLIC FUNDS FOR A PRIVATE ENTERPRISE PROJECT:
Before obtaining County funds, a private enterprise project must be brought
before the County Commission for screening and approval. Each private
enterprise project must meet the following criteria before such approval:
   A.   Providing Value To Beaver County Citizens: To be approved a private
enterprise project must be shown to give value, tangible or intangible, to the
citizens of Beaver County, providing one (1) or more of the following
attributes: safety, health, prosperity, moral well-being, peace, order, comfort
or convenience to County residents or accomplish the reasonable goals and
objectives of Beaver County in the area of economic development, job creation,
affordable housing, blight elimination, job preservation, the preservation of
historic structures, analyzing and improving Beaver County government structure
or property, or any other public purpose, as determined by the Beaver County
Commission.
   B.   Written Study On Proposed Appropriation And Private Enterprise Project:
Beaver County shall conduct a study showing what value, if any, the County
would receive in return for money or resources appropriated to a private
entity. This shall include the purpose of the appropriation, and an analysis of
the way the appropriation will be used to enhance the safety, health,
prosperity, moral well-being, peace, order, comfort, or convenience of the
residents of Beaver County and whether the appropriation is necessary and
appropriate to accomplish the reasonable goals and objectives of Beaver County
in the area of economic development, job creation, affordable housing, blight
elimination, job preservation, the preservation of historic structures,
analyzing and improving Beaver County government structure or property, or any
other public purpose. Beaver County shall then prepare a written report of the
results of the study and make the report available to the public at least
fourteen (14) days immediately prior to the scheduled day of the public hearing
described below.
   C.   Posting Notice Of And Holding Public Hearing For Private Enterprise
Project: Beaver County shall publish notice of the public hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation at least fourteen (14) days before the date of
the hearing or, if there is no newspaper of general circulation, by posting
notice in at least three (3) conspicuous places within Beaver County for the
same time period and on the Utah Public Notice Website, at least fourteen (14)
days before the date of the hearing.
   D.   Keeping Of Record: A record shall be kept by the County Clerk
containing full and accurate minutes concerning decisions relating to the
private enterprise project, including an audio recording of all public meetings
and hearings regarding the same. (Ord. 2017-01, 4-4-2017)
1-12-2: APPEAL BY BEAVER COUNTY CITIZENS:
Beaver County citizens may appeal the decision of Beaver County to appropriate
funds for a private enterprise project. The citizen shall file an appeal with
the District Court within thirty (30) days after the day on which Beaver County
approves a budget to appropriate funds. (Ord. 2017-01, 4-4-2017)
1-12-3: ISSUING FUNDS FOR PRIVATE ENTERPRISE PROJECT:
All funds approved for a private enterprise project shall not be issued until
the appeal period has expired. (Ord. 2017-01, 4-4-2017)
CHAPTER 13
Regulations Regarding Surplus Property
SECTION:
1-13-1: Purpose of Provisions
1-13-2: Definitions
1-13-3: Guidelines
1-13-4: Procedures
1-13-5: Exceptions
1-13-1: PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   To establish the Beaver County policy regarding the disposal of surplus
property.
   B.   All county property that is no longer needed will be disposed of in a
manner that will maximize the return or benefit to the citizens of Beaver
County. (Ord. 2020-07, 6-2-2020)
1-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used in this chapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning:
ASSIGNED EQUIPMENT: Any item that an employee has been using exclusively as a
part of his or her job.
PURCHASING AGENT: The person responsible to make procurement’s, solicit bids
and proposals who is duly authorized by the governing body of the County to
enter into and administer contracts and make written determinations with
respect thereto.
SURPLUS PROPERTY: Any equipment, material or supplies determined to be excess,
obsolete or surplus by the county, including items received in accordance with
Utah Code § 24-3-201, after the requirements outlined in § 24-3-103. (Ord.
2020-07, 6-2-2020)
1-13-3: GUIDELINES:
   A.   Each department shall maintain records identifying the current location
of each item of capital equipment to allow any item to be located within a
reasonable time.
   B.   The head of each department is responsible to adequately provide for
physical security of property in their custody. Special precautions shall be
taken to safeguard portable property.
   C.   The purchasing agent shall affix an identifying label with registration
numer to all acquired property valued over two hundred ($200.00).
   D.   When a department has property that is serviceable, but no longer
needed by the department, they will compile a list of that property including
identifying label registration number and send it to the office of the
purchasing agent. (Ord. 2020-07, 6-2-2020)
1-13-4: PROCEDURES:
   A.   The purchasing agent will first attempt to re-allocate property to
other departments on an “as needed” basis, as determined by the purchasing
agent.
   B.   Any property that is not re-allocated and is valued at two hundred
dollars ($200) or above will be presented to the Beaver County Commission to be
declared surplus property.
   C.   Upon being declared surplus property, legal notice of sale will be
posted in accordance with Utah law.
   D.   Bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more witnesses
at the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. The amount of each
bid and any other relevant information, together with the name of each bidder,
shall be recorded. The record and each bid shall be open to public inspection
after the public opening referenced above has occurred. (Ord. 2020-07, 6-2-
2020)
1-13-5: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The Beaver County Commission may authorize the purchase of equipment by
the employee to whom it was assigned, at fair market value. Fair market value
is to be established by the County Purchasing Agent comparing two estimates of
the value of the assigned equipment.
   B.   The requirement for notice and auction may be waived for items with a
current market value of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or less, if the
commission finds that public notice and auction is not in the best interest of
the citizens of Beaver County, and the property shall be sold at fair market
value, as established in paragraph A. above. (Ord. 2020-07, 6-2-2020)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, COUNCILS
CHAPTER 1
COUNCIL ON AGING
SECTION:
2-1-1: Created
2-1-2: Purpose, Duties And Responsibilities
2-1-3: Organization
2-1-4: Budget
2-1-1: CREATED:
Due to the great interest in the county in improving, developing, coordinating
and strengthening all programs concerned with a rapidly increasing aged and
aging population, and to more fully utilize the potential of our older
citizens, their skills, their wisdom and their experience, the board of
commissioners hereby creates a Beaver County council on aging, hereafter
referred to as the council on aging. (Ord. 2015-11, 6-15-2015)
2-1-2: PURPOSE, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The purpose, duties and responsibilities of the council on aging include:
   A.   Serving as the successor to all functions of diverse groups left
without authorization, at the formation of the council on aging.
   B.   Promoting and developing programs to interest and provide for the
welfare of senior citizens.
   C.   Cooperating with the Utah division of aging and also both public and
private companion agencies on the state and national levels to more effectively
meet the needs of and provide opportunities for older persons.
   D.   Integrating the activities of such other groups with the kindred aims
of providing opportunities for senior adults of volunteer or paid service to
the community and to their fellow men, and for opportunities in educational,
recreational and social pursuits.
   E.   Being aware of those interested in the aspects and needs of the aging,
to promote appropriate public relations endeavors, and to coordinate activities
and fiscal management.
   F.   Seeking out resources at the local, state and national level to provide
services to the aging adult.
   G.   Serving as an advisory board to the Beaver County commission regarding
the selection and employment of county coordinator. (Ord. 2015-11, 6-15-2015)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION:
The council on aging shall consist of twelve (12) regular voting members, to be
comprised of the following persons: three (3) lay citizens over the age of
sixty four (64) from each of the three (3) separate senior citizens' centers
presently operating within the county (for a total of 9 lay members); and one
officer from each said center (for a total of 3 directors).
   A.   Appointment Of Voting Members; Vacancy: Voting members shall be
appointed by the county commission, by resolution (or minute entry), who may
follow the recommendations of the council on aging. Appointments shall be made
to be effective July 1 of each year. Vacancy appointments will be for the
balance of the term for which the appointment was made.
   B.   Term: Appointments are to be staggered as follows:
      1.   Four (4) members appointed for one year, ending July 1, 2016;
      2.   Four (4) members appointed for two (2) years, ending July 1, 2017;
      3.   Four (4) members appointed for three (3) years, ending July 1, 2018.
Thereafter all replacement terms for three (3) years. Any member of the council
on aging may be removed by the commission for cause. Any member missing more
than three (3) meetings without cause shall be considered removed.
   C.   Officers: Officers serving as voting members to the council on aging
should consist of the following persons, whose terms of office shall consist of
one year and in no case shall exceed three (3) consecutive terms:
      1.   Chairperson;
      2.   Vice chairperson 1;
      3.   Vice chairperson 2.
   D.   Meetings; Compensation: Members of the council on aging shall meet
regularly once each month or in special session as called by the chairperson.
Members shall be uncompensated, except that they may be reimbursed for actual
expense incurred on behalf of the council on aging. Secretarial services for
the council shall be provided by the secretary of the county senior citizen
programs.
   E.   Removal: Any member of the council on aging may be removed by the
county commission for cause. Any member missing more than three (3) meetings
without cause shall be considered removed.
   F.   Program Personnel: Employment of program personnel shall be based upon
advice of the council on aging, and approval of the county commission. The
council shall provide job specifications (qualification, description) for all
positions to the county commission.
      1.   In consultation with the council on aging, the county commission
shall hire a county coordinator to administer and coordinate approved programs
in the county.
      2.   The county coordinator shall advise the Beaver County commission on
the employment of a secretary-bookkeeper (or secretarial and bookkeeping
services will be provided by a county employee on a regular basis) and other
necessary personnel after approval by the council on aging and upon review and
approval by the county commission.
      3.   In accordance with applicable law, reasonable efforts shall be made
to fill positions and develop and provide opportunities for volunteer services
by qualified senior citizens.
      4.   The county coordinator and the council on aging shall at all times
comply with applicable law and the terms and provisions of the county policies
and procedures manual in the hiring, termination and discipline of its
employees, and shall likewise act in consultation with the county personnel
director in such actions.
      5.   The county coordinator shall work closely and plan efforts with the
operations of the senior citizen club. (Ord. 2015-11, 6-15-2015)
2-1-4: BUDGET:
The budget shall be reviewed by the council on aging, and approved by the
county commission. Expenditures made by the council on aging shall be subject
to review by the Beaver County clerk/auditor. (Ord. 2015-11, 6-15-2015)
CHAPTER 2
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Established
2-2-2: Appointment Of Board Members
2-2-3: Term In Office; Removal Of Members
2-2-4: Officers Of Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board
2-2-5: Quorum And Rules Of Operation
2-2-6: Minimum Size For Agriculture Protection Areas
2-2-7: Fees For Accepting And Processing Agriculture Protection Area Proposals
2-2-8: Proposals And Approvals Of Protection Areas
2-2-1: ESTABLISHED:
An agriculture protection area advisory board is hereby established for Beaver
County pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 17-41-201 to perform the duties
set out in section 17-41-201 or any later amendment or enactment of that
section. (Ord. 96-03, 3-4-1996)
2-2-2: APPOINTMENT OF BOARD MEMBERS:
The board of county commissioners of Beaver County, Utah, shall appoint five
(5) members to the agriculture protection area advisory board established under
section
2-2-1 of this chapter. The board members shall be appointed by resolution from
among the members of the boards of supervisors of the two (2) soil conservation
districts located in Beaver County, Utah; namely, the Beaver conservation
district and the Twin M conservation district. (Ord. 2015-16, 12-1-2015)
2-2-3: TERM IN OFFICE; REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
Board members shall serve for no more than two (2) terms. Each term shall run
for a period of four (4) years. Each member appointed to the agriculture
protection area advisory board shall serve on said board until expiration of
that member's respective term on the soil conservation district boards of
supervisors. The board of county commissioners of Beaver County may remove and
replace any advisory board member for cause or for failure to perform the
required duties. (Ord. 96-03, 3-4-1996; amd. Ord. 2015-16, 12-1-2015)
2-2-4: OFFICERS OF AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA ADVISORY BOARD:
The members of the agriculture protection area advisory board shall select a
chairman, vice chairman and secretary. The chairman and vice chairman shall be
selected from among the members of the agriculture protection area advisory
board. The secretary may be either a member of the advisory board or a Beaver
County resident. (Ord. 96-03, 3-4-1996)
2-2-5: QUORUM AND RULES OF OPERATION:
Any three (3) members of the agriculture protection area advisory board shall
constitute a quorum of that board. All actions of the board, except to adjourn
a meeting at which there is not a quorum present, must be made in a meeting at
which a quorum is present. Any actions of the agriculture protection area
advisory board must be approved by at least three (3) members of that board.
All meetings shall be conducted in accordance with the Utah open and public
meetings act. The agriculture protection area advisory board may adopt such
additional rules of operation as it deems necessary to govern its affairs.
(Ord. 96-03, 3-4-1996)
2-2-6: MINIMUM SIZE FOR AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREAS:
Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 17-41-301(5), or any later amendment or
enactment of that section, at least twenty (20) contiguous acres must be
included in each agriculture protection area established in Beaver County.
(Ord. 96-03, 3-4-1996)
2-2-7: FEES FOR ACCEPTING AND PROCESSING AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA PROPOSALS:
Fees shall be in such amounts as established by the board of county
commissioners. (Ord. 2015-16, 12-1-2015)
2-2-8: PROPOSALS AND APPROVALS OF PROTECTION AREAS:
All proposals to create agriculture protection areas within Beaver County,
Utah, shall be filed in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 17-41-301
et seq. All proposals must be accompanied by the filing fee established by the
board of county commissioners. (Ord. 2015-16, 12-1-2015)
CHAPTER 3
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Purpose
2-3-2: Established
2-3-3: Commission Duties
2-3-4: Standards For Rehabilitation And Design Guidelines
2-3-1: PURPOSE:
Beaver County recognizes that the historical heritage of the community is among
its most valued and important assets. It is therefore the intent of Beaver
County to identify, preserve, protect and enhance historic buildings,
structures, sites, objects, and districts lying within Beaver County. (Ord.
2018-03, 3-13-2018)
2-3-2: ESTABLISHED:
A Historic Preservation Commission is hereby established by Beaver County with
the following provisions:
   A.   The commission shall consist of five (5) members.
   B.   All commission members must have a demonstrated interest, knowledge, or
experience in the fields related to historic preservation.
   C.   To the extent available in the community, at least two (2) members of
the commission shall be professionals in fields related to historic
preservation (i.e., history, architectural history, archaeology, historic
architecture, or planning).
   D.   Commission meetings shall be held at least twice a year.
   E.   Written minutes of each commission meeting shall be prepared and made
available for public inspection. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-13-2018)
2-3-3: COMMISSION DUTIES:
The Historic Preservation Commission shall have the following duties.
   A.   Advise the County Commission and other interested parties in the
community on matters related to historic preservation and history.
   B.   Coordinate with other County entities and community organizations to
promote collaborate efforts related to the community's history and cultural
affairs.
   C.   Conduct surveys of local historic properties in compliance with
standards set by the State of Historic Preservation Office.
   D.   Maintain an inventory of surveyed historic properties, including site
forms and related support materials, in a publicly accessible location.
   E.   Participate in planning and land-use processes undertaken by the County
that have the potential to affect historic properties.
   F.   Promote and conduct educational and interpretive programs related to
the community's history and historic properties.
   G.   Review and comment to the State Historic Preservation Office regarding
all proposed National Register nominations of properties in the community.
   H.   Apply for and administer grants and other financial aid for historic
preservation and history-related projects in the County. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-13-
2018)
2-3-4: STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION AND DESIGN GUIDELINES:
The following standards and guidelines shall be used by the Historic
Preservation Commission in advising the County Commission and other parties on
the appropriate treatment of historic properties:
   A.   Standards For Rehabilitation: These standards apply to historic
buildings of all periods, styles, types, materials, and sizes. They apply to
both the exterior and the interior of historic buildings. The standards also
encompass related landscape features and the building's site and environment as
well as attached, adjacent, or related new construction.
      1.   A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed in a
new use that requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of the
building and its site and environment.
      2.   The historic character of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and
spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.
      3.   Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place, and use.
Changes that create a false sense of historical development, such as adding
conjectural features or architectural elements from other buildings, shall not
be undertaken.
      4.   Most properties change over time; those changes that have acquired
historic significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.
      5.   Distinctive features, finishes, and construction techniques or
examples of craftsmanship that characterize a property shall be preserved.
      6.   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color,
texture, and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement
of missing features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or
pictorial evidence.
      7.   Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause
damage to historic materials shall not be used. The surface cleaning of
structures, if appropriate, shall be undertaken using the gentlest means
possible.
      8.   Significant archeological resources affected by a project shall be
protected and preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation
measures shall be undertaken.
      9.   New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new
work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the property and its environment.
      10.   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
   B.   General Design Guidelines: These guidelines expand on some of the
concepts articulated in the standards in subsection A of this section.
      1.   Historic Sites, Historic Buildings, And Contributing Buildings In
Historic Districts:
         a.   Avoid demolition of historic and contributing buildings. They are
a finite resource and cannot be replaced.
         b.   Vacant buildings should be weather- and vandal-proofed in order
to minimize further deterioration and the threat to public safety.
         c.   Rehabilitation work, especially on the exterior and the principal
facade, should preserve existing historic features or replace them, if
absolutely necessary, with features and materials known to have existed on the
building. Avoid "dressing up" buildings by adding features based on
speculation.
         d.   Avoid moving buildings whenever possible, especially to create
artificial groupings of historic buildings. If buildings must be moved, the new
site should be similar to the original site, and the original setback and
orientation of the building on the lot should be replicated.
      2.   Additions To Historic Buildings And New Construction Within A
Historic District:
         a.   New Additions: New additions to historic buildings should be
subordinate to the original building, that is, lower in height, attached to the
rear or set back along the side, and subordinate in scale and architectural
detailing.
         b.   Compatibility: Height, width, setback, roof shape, and the
overall scale and massing of new buildings within a historic district should be
compatible with surrounding historic buildings and the overall streetscape.
         c.   Materials: Materials on at least the primary facade(s) should be
similar to original materials on facades of surrounding historic buildings
(usually brick, stucco, stone, or wood siding, depending on the specific
characteristics of the district).
         d.   Architectural Details: Architectural details (including wood or
metal trim, porches, cornices, arches, window and door features, etc.) should
be compatible with but not replicate historic features on surrounding historic
buildings.
         e.   Window And Door Openings: Window and door openings should be
similar in size and orientation (vertical or horizontal) to openings on
historic buildings and should take up about the same percentage of the overall
facade as those on surrounding historic buildings.
         f.   Proportion Of Principal Facades: The relationship of the width to
the height of the principal elevations shall be in scale with surrounding
structures and streetscape. Wider new buildings can be divided into segments
that more closely resemble the facade widths of historic buildings.
         g.   Roof Shape: The roof shape of a building shall be visually
compatible with the surrounding structures and streetscape. Unusual roof
shapes, pitches, and colors are discouraged. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-13-2018)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
RESERVED
CHAPTER 2
RETAIL BEER LICENSES AND AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Classification Of Retail Beer Licenses
3-2-4: Application And License Issuance, Requirements
3-2-5: Fees For Licenses
3-2-6: Display Of License; Inspections
3-2-7: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-2-8: Notice Requirements
3-2-9: Hours Of Operation For Retail Beer Licensee
3-2-10: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any machine, device or contrivance, not prohibited by law,
designed to be operated or used for amusement, or the playing of a game upon,
in response to the payment of some charge or insertion therein or a coin, slug
or check, and which includes a pool table.
BEER: Any beverage containing not less than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of
alcohol by weight, and not more than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) of
alcohol by weight, and obtained by alcoholic fermentation or an infusion or
decoction of any malted grain or similar products. Beer may or may not contain
hops or other vegetable products.
PERSON: An individual, firm or corporation.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer.
WHOLESALER: Any person other than a manufacturer engaged in the importation for
sale, or in the sale of beer in wholesale or jobbing quantities to the Utah
state alcoholic beverage control commission or to retailers. (2004 Code § 2-
310)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of a retailer or wholesaler of beer, or
keep or possess an amusement device for a commercial purpose, within the county
outside the limits of incorporated municipalities, without being the holder of
a license to do so as hereinafter provided. (2004 Code § 2-311)
3-2-3: CLASSIFICATION OF RETAIL BEER LICENSES:
Retail beer licenses shall be of the following classes:
   A.   Class A: Class A retail, which shall entitle the licensee to sell beer
at retail in the original container not for consumption on the premises.
   B.   Class B: Class B retail, which shall entitle the licensee to sell beer
either in the original container or on draft for consumption on the premises or
otherwise, as well as all privileges of a class A license. (2004 Code § 2-314)
3-2-4: APPLICATION AND LICENSE ISSUANCE, REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A license for retail beer and amusement devices may be obtained by
making written application to the county clerk, containing such information as
the board of county commissioners may require. The board of county
commissioners shall review all applications before the license is issued,
except that the board may authorize the county clerk to issue licenses without
a review by the board in such instances as the board may designate by
resolution. (2004 Code § 2-312; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   The board may reject the application if it finds that the applicant,
or, if the applicant is a partnership, firm or corporation, that any officer of
such partnership, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee of the
applicant which is employed at the business location covered by the proposed
license, has been convicted of a felony which has not been expunged, or, in the
case of an application for a retail beer license has been convicted of a crime
involving the unlawful possession, transportation, manufacture, acquisition,
sale, furnishing or other dispensing of alcoholic beverages under the laws of
the state or any political subdivision thereof, or any other state or political
subdivision thereof, or that the applicant, or if the applicant is a
partnership, firm or corporation, that any officer of such partnership, firm or
corporation, is under the age of twenty one (21) years, or, in the case of an
application for an amusement device, has been convicted of a crime involving
the gaming or gambling laws of the state or any political subdivision thereof,
or any other state or political subdivision thereof. However, before an
application can be rejected, the applicant shall be given written notice of the
proposed rejection with the reason therefor and, upon the request of the
applicant, shall be afforded a hearing before the board of county commissioners
at which the applicant shall have a reasonable opportunity to explain or refute
the reason for the proposed rejection. If no request for a hearing has been
made by the expiration of fifteen (15) days after the giving of notice to the
applicant of the proposed rejection, it shall be presumed that no hearing is
requested and the rejection may be finalized with notice thereof given to the
applicant. (Ord. 2016-08, 7-6-2016)
   C.   Upon the approval of the application, the county clerk shall issue the
license upon full payment of the fee therefor as hereinafter set forth. The
license shall contain the name of the person to whom issued, the address of the
premises on which the business licensed is to be operated and the period of
time for which the license is effective. The county clerk shall retain a copy
of all licenses as the board of county commissioners may require.
   D.   A separate license shall be required for each business location
operated by the licensee. The license shall not be transferable to any other
person or location. (2004 Code § 2-312)
3-2-5: FEES FOR LICENSES:
Fees for the various licenses covered by this chapter shall be in such amounts
as established by the board of county commissioners. (2004 Code § 2-315; amd.
2015 Code)
3-2-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE; INSPECTIONS:
The license shall be displayed by the licensee in a conspicuous place at the
business location covered thereby. The licensee, or the applicant for a
license, as the case may be, shall permit any police officer, health officer or
member of the board of county commissioners to enter upon and inspect that
portion of the premises whereon or wherein the business activity authorized by
the license is being or to be conducted at reasonable intervals and at
reasonable times while an application for license is being considered or while
the license is in effect for the purpose of determining whether or not all laws
regulating such business activity are being complied with. (2004 Code § 2-316)
3-2-7: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
The board of county commissioners may revoke the license or suspend a portion
of the term of the license if the board finds that any of the causes for
rejection of the application, as set forth in subsection 3-2-4B of this
chapter, in fact existed at the time that the application was being considered
and that fact was not known to the board at the time that the application was
being considered, or if the board finds that any of said causes has occurred
during the term of the license; provided, that no such revocation or suspension
shall occur until a hearing before said board has been held, at which the
licensee shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard, and written notice shall
have been given to the licensee at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of
the hearing setting forth the proposed revocation or suspension with the reason
therefor and the time and place set for the hearing. Following the hearing, if
the license is revoked or suspended, written notice thereof shall be given to
the licensee, and the licensee shall return all license certificates to the
county clerk. In the event of such revocation or suspension, no part of the
license fee shall be refundable. (2004 Code § 2-317)
3-2-8: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Any notice required or permitted to be given to an applicant or to a licensee,
as the case may be, under this chapter may be given by a delivery thereof to
the applicant or the licensee personally or by mailing thereof to the applicant
or licensee to the address of the applicant shown in the application or of the
licensee shown in the license, as the case may be, and the notice shall be
deemed to be complete and binding upon the applicant or licensee upon such
delivery or mailing. (2004 Code § 2-318)
3-2-9: HOURS OF OPERATION FOR RETAIL BEER LICENSEE:
No retail beer license may be issued for the sale of beer during the hours one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and nine fifty nine o'clock (9:59) A.M. following, and no
beer may be sold at retail during those hours within the county outside of
incorporated municipalities. (2004 Code § 2-319; amd. 2015 Code)
3-2-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
the commission of a class B misdemeanor and may be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2004 Code § 2-320; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TAXES
ARTICLE A. TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Title
3-3A-2: Purpose
3-3A-3: Transient Defined
3-3A-4: Effective Date; Contract With State
3-3A-5: Transient Room Tax
3-3A-6: Use Of Funds Collected
3-3A-7: Reserve Fund
3-3A-8: Contributions Permitted
3-3A-9: Short-Term Rental Transient Room Tax
 
3-3A-10: Penalty
3-3A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the TRANSIENT ROOM TAX OF THE COUNTY OF BEAVER.
(2004 Code § 2-710)
3-3A-2: PURPOSE:
The board of commissioners hereby declares that this article is adopted to
achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions
hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish these purposes:
   A.   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance which incorporates provisions
identical to those of Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 31, as amended.
   B.   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance which imposes a four and one-
fourth percent (4.25%) tax and provide a measure therefor that can be
administered and collected by the state tax commission in a manner that adapts
itself as fully as practical to the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the state tax commission in administering and collecting
the sales and use taxes of the state.
   C.   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance which can be administered in a
manner that will provide for the purpose of establishing, financing and
promoting recreational, tourist and convention bureaus and for that purpose,
create at the discretion of the board of county commissioners a reserve fund
comprised of any funds collected but not expended during the fiscal year. (2004
Code § 2-711; amd. 2015 Code)
3-3A-3: TRANSIENT DEFINED:
For the purpose of this article, the term "transient" is defined as any person
who occupied any suite, room or rooms in a motel, hotel, motor court, inn or
similar public accommodation for fewer than thirty (30) consecutive days. (2004
Code § 2-724)
3-3A-4: EFFECTIVE DATE; CONTRACT WITH STATE:
This article shall become operative on January 1, 1974, and prior thereto, this
county shall contract with the state tax commission to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation of this transient room tax
ordinance. (2004 Code § 2-712)
3-3A-5: TRANSIENT ROOM TAX:
   A.   From and after the operative date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon all amounts paid or charged for tourist
home, hotel, motel or trailer court accommodations and services that are
regularly rented for less than thirty (30) consecutive days in the county, at
the rate of four and one-fourth percent (4.25%).
   B.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 31,
as amended, all of the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
as amended, are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as though fully
set forth herein. (Ord. 2007-01, 1-8-2007)
   C.   Whenever and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 15, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name Beaver County shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the county for the word
"state" when that word is used as part of the title or the state tax
commission, or of the constitution of the state of Utah, nor shall the name of
the county be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result
of the substitution would require action to be taken by or against the county
or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article.
   D.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-15-3, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this section.
   E.   There shall be excluded from the rent paid or charged by which the tax
is measured:
      1.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state or by
another governmental agency upon a retailer or consumer;
      2.   Receipts from the sale or service charge for any food or beverage or
room service charges in conjunction with the occupancy of the suite, room or
rooms. (2004 Code § 2-720)
3-3A-6: USE OF FUNDS COLLECTED:
The funds collected and received by the county by virtue of the tax imposed
hereby shall be used for the purpose of:
   A.   Establishing and promoting recreation, tourism, film production and
conventions;
   B.   Acquiring, leasing, constructing, furnishing, maintaining or operating
convention meeting rooms, exhibit halls, visitor information centers, museums,
sports and recreation facilities, including practice fields, stadiums and
arenas, and related facilities;
   C.   Acquiring land, leasing land or making payments for construction or
infrastructure improvements required for or related to the purposes listed in
subsection B of this section; and
   D.   As required to mitigate the impacts of recreation, tourism or
conventions in the county, paying for solid waste disposal operation, emergency
medical services, search and rescue activities and law enforcement activities
in accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 31. (Ord. 2007-01, 1-
8-2007)
3-3A-7: RESERVE FUND:
For the purpose authorized by this article, there is hereby created a reserve
fund to be known as the "convention bureau special reserve fund", which shall
be maintained separate and apart from general and other special funds of the
county and in which shall be deposited any and all funds collected by virtue of
the tax imposed hereby but not expended during the fiscal year in which they
were collected or in any other subsequent fiscal year. (2004 Code § 2-722)
3-3A-8: CONTRIBUTIONS PERMITTED:
The board of county commissioners is hereby authorized to accept, on behalf of
the county, funds contributed, donated or supplied by any person, corporation,
other governmental agency or from any other source whatever for the purpose
outlined in section
3-3A-7 of this article, and when such funds are received they shall be
deposited and used in the same manner as though they were derived from the tax
imposed hereby. (2004 Code § 2-723)
3-3A-9: SHORT-TERM RENTAL TRANSIENT ROOM TAX:
   A.   Imposition Of Transient Room Tax: Pursuant to Utah Code § 59-12-301(1)
(a)(ii), Beaver County hereby imposes a transient room tax at the rate of four
and a half percent (4.5%) on charges for accommodations and services described
in Utah Code § 59-12-103(l)(i), including short-term rentals of tourist homes,
hotels, motels, trailer courts, and similar accommodations.
   B.   Effective Date: This section shall become effective on July 1, 2025, in
accordance with the notice and implementation requirements of Utah Code § 59-
12-301(4).
   C.   Use Of Revenue: Revenue collected from this tax shall be used
exclusively for the purposes authorized in Utah Code § 17-31-2(3), including
but not limited to:
      1.   Establishing and promoting tourism, recreation, film production, and
conventions;
      2.   Acquiring, constructing, or maintaining tourism, or recreation-
related facilities and infrastructure;
      3.   Mitigating impacts of recreation, tourism, and conventions through
support for emergency services, law enforcement, road repair, and solid waste
management;
      4.   Making payments for bonds issued for such purposes.
   D.   The portion of the tax authorized under Utah Code § 59-12-301(l)(a)(ii)
and enacted by this section shall remain with the county and is not subject to
the expenditure limitations or required distributions set forth in Utah Code §
59-28-103. (Ord. 2025-05, 6-10-2025)
3-3A-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2004 Code § 2-740; amd. 2015 Code)
ARTICLE B. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Title
3-3B-2: Purpose
3-3B-3: Effective Date
3-3B-4: Tax Imposed
3-3B-5: Penalty
3-3B-6: Beaver County Option Sales And Use Tax For Transportation
3-3B-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF BEAVER
COUNTY. (2015 Code)
3-3B-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Authorization Of Tax: The 48th session of the Utah Legislature
authorized the counties and municipalities of the State to enact Sales and Use
Tax ordinances imposing a one percent (1%) tax.
   B.   Tax Established: It is the purpose of this article to conform the Sales
and Use Tax of the County to conform to the requirements of the Sales and Use
Tax Act, Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as currently amended. (2015
Code)
3-3B-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become effective as of January 1, 1990. (2015 Code)
3-3B-4: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Imposed:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the County at the rate of one percent
(1%).
      2.   An Excise Tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the County of tangible personal property from any retailer on or
after the operative date hereof at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales
price of the property.
      3.   For the purposes of this article, all retail sales shall be presumed
to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out of State destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out of State designation. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed and adopted by the
State Tax Commission. "Public utilities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated
title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within any
county or municipality where public utilities are rendered, but the place of
sale or the Sales Tax revenue arising from such service allocable to the County
shall be as determined by the State Tax Commission pursuant to an appropriate
formula and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   B.   Adoption Of State Codes; Provisions:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax Act, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, insofar as
they relate to Sales Taxes, excepting section 59-12-101 thereof, are hereby
adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set forth herein.
      2.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, the State of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this County shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the County for the word
"State" when the word is used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission,
or of the Constitution of the State of Utah, nor shall the name of the County
be substituted for that of the State in any section when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the State Tax
Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article.
      3.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this section.
      4.   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by
which the tax is measured:
         a.   The amount of any Sales or Use Tax imposed by the State upon a
retailer or consumer.
         b.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a Sales or Use
Tax has become due by reason of the sales transaction to any other municipality
and any county in the State under the Sales or Use Tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the Sales and Use Tax Act. (2015
Code)
3-3B-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2015 Code)
3-3B-6: BEAVER COUNTY OPTION SALES AND USE TAX FOR TRANSPORTATION:
   A.   In accordance with section 59-12-2217 Utah Code Annotated, as amended,
1953 the Beaver County Commission hereby imposes a 0.25 percent Sales and Use
Tax on the transactions described in subsection 59-12-103(1) Utah Code
Annotated, as amended, 1953, within the County, including the cities and towns
within the County.
   B.   Revenues from the above imposed tax shall be distributed in accordance
with section 59-12-2219 Utah Code Annotated, as amended, 1953. (Ord. 2018-08,
9-4-2018)
ARTICLE C. TOURISM, RECREATION, CULTURAL AND CONVENTION TAX
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Purpose
3-3C-2: Definitions
3-3C-3: Imposition Of Tax
3-3C-4: Effective Date
3-3C-5: Use Of Revenues
3-3C-6: Collection
3-3C-7: License Required
3-3C-8: Penalty
3-3C-1: PURPOSE:
This article is enacted to provide a source of revenue specifically for
financing, in whole or in part, the development, operation and maintenance of
tourism, recreation, cultural and convention facilities within the county. The
provisions of this article shall be interpreted and construed to accomplish
such purpose. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-8-2001)
3-3C-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
CONVENTION FACILITY: Any publicly owned or operated convention center, sports
arena or other facility at which conventions, conferences and other gatherings
are held and whose primary business or function is to host such conventions,
conferences and other gatherings.
CULTURAL FACILITY: Any publicly owned or operated museum, theater, art center,
music hall or other cultural or arts facility.
RECREATIONAL FACILITY OR TOURIST FACILITY: Any publicly owned or operated park,
campground, marina, dock, golf course, water park, historic park, monument,
planetarium, zoo, bicycle trails and other recreation or tourism related
facility.
RESTAURANT: A. Includes any coffee shop, cafeteria, luncheonette, soda fountain
or fast food service where food is prepared for immediate consumption.
   B.   Restaurant does not include:
      1.   Any retail establishment whose primary business or function is the
sale of fuel and/or food items for off premises, but not immediate,
consumption; and
      2.   A theater that sells food items, but not a dinner theater. (Ord.
2001-01, 1-8-2001; amd. 2015 Code)
3-3C-3: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
There is hereby levied tourism, recreation, cultural and convention taxes as
follows:
One percent (1%) on all restaurant sales of food and beverages made within the
county or within any city or town located within the county. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-
8-2001)
3-3C-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become effective upon April 1, 2001. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-8-
2001)
3-3C-5: USE OF REVENUES:
The revenues received from the taxes herein levied shall be used solely for
financing, in whole or in part, tourism promotion or the development, operation
and maintenance of tourism, recreation, cultural and convention facilities, and
for no other purpose. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-8-2001)
3-3C-6: COLLECTION:
Taxes imposed under this article shall be levied and collected at the same time
and in the same manner as provided for general sales taxes in Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-201 et seq., except that the revenue derived shall not
be subject to the distribution provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 56-12-
205(2). (Ord. 2001-01, 1-8-2001)
3-3C-7: LICENSE REQUIRED:
All persons, companies, corporations or other similar persons or organizations
required under the terms of this article to collect the taxes imposed herein
shall obtain from the state tax commission a tourism, recreation, cultural and
convention tax license. No additional license is required if said persons,
company, group, corporation or organization has obtained a license pursuant to
the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-8-
2001)
3-3C-8: PENALTY:
Any person, company, corporation or other organization subject to the terms of
this article which shall fail to obtain the required license or fail to collect
the tax imposed by this article shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and
subject to penalty as provided by section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-8-2001; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 4
LARGE PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose And Intent
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: License Requirements
3-4-4: Application For License
3-4-5: Conditions For Issuance Of License
3-4-6: Revocation
3-4-7: Enforcement
3-4-8: Public Nuisance
3-4-9: Penalty
3-4-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose of the county to regulate the assemblies of large numbers of
people, in excess of those normally needing the health, sanitary, fire, police,
transportation and utility services regularly provided in the county in order
that the health, safety and welfare of all persons in the county, residents and
visitors alike, may be protected. (Ord. 2014-06, 3-17-2014; amd. 2015 Code)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ASSEMBLY: A company of persons gathered together at any location at any single
time for any purpose.
PERSON: Any individual natural human being, partnership, corporation, firm,
company, association, society or group. (Ord. 2014-06, 3-17-2014)
3-4-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct,
advertise, act as entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage, sell, or give
tickets to any actual or reasonable anticipated assembly of one thousand
(1,000) or more people, whether on public or private property, unless a license
to hold the assembly has first been issued by the county commissioners. Any
large public assembly that is designed to promote unlawful activity or which
contains the veiled or latent promotion of unlawful activity shall not be
licensed.
   B.   Separate License: A separate license shall be required for each
location in which one thousand (1,000) or more people assemble or can
reasonably be anticipated to assemble.
   C.   Fee: The fee for each license shall be in such amount as established by
the board of county commissioners.
   D.   Maximum Number Of Persons: A license shall permit the assembly of only
the maximum number of people stated in the license. The licensee shall not sell
tickets to nor permit to assemble at the licensed location more than the
maximum permissible number of people.
   E.   Exceptions: This chapter shall not apply to government sponsored fairs
held on regularly established fairgrounds, nor to assemblies required to be
licensed by other ordinances and regulations of the county. (Ord. 2014-06, 3-
17-2014; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 2021-08, 8-3-2021)
3-4-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Required; Time Limit For Filing: Application for a license to hold an
actual or anticipated assembly of one thousand (1,000) or more persons shall be
made in writing to the county commission at least thirty (30) days in advance
of such assembly. (Ord. 2014-06, 3-17-2014)
   B.   Statement: The application shall contain a statement made upon oath or
affirmation that the statements contained therein are true and correct to the
best knowledge of the applicant and shall be signed and sworn to or affirmed by
the individual making application or, in the case of a partnership, by all
parties, or by all officers of an unincorporated association, society or group
or, if there be no officers, by all members of such association, society or
group, or the authorized officers of a corporation.
   C.   Contents And Disclosures: The application shall contain and disclose:
      1.   The name, age, residence and mailing address of all persons required
to sign the application by subsection B of this section and, in the case of a
corporation, a certified copy of the articles of incorporation, together with
the name, age, residence and mailing address of each person holding ten percent
(10%) or more of the stock of said corporation; (Ord. 2014-06, 3-17-2014; amd.
2015 Code)
      2.   The address and legal description of all property upon which the
assembly is to be held, together with the name, residence and mailing address
of the record owners of all such property;
      3.   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the assembly is to be
held or a statement made upon oath or affirmation by the record owners of all
such property that the applicant has permission to use such property for an
assembly of one thousand (1,000) or more persons;
      4.   The nature or purpose of the assembly;
      5.   The total number of days and/or hours during which the assembly is
to last;
      6.   The maximum number of persons which the applicant shall permit to
assemble at any time, not to exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly, in consideration of the persons
allowed to step within the boundaries of the location of the assembly by any
zoning ordinances of the county if the assembly is to continue overnight;
      7.   The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any;
      8.   The plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of people
permitted to assemble;
      9.   The plans for fencing the location of the assembly and the gates
contained in such fence;
      10.   The plans for supplying potable water, including the source, amount
available and location of outlets;
      11.   The plans for providing toilet and lavatory facilities, including
the source, number and locations, type, and the means of disposing of waste
deposited;
      12.   The plans for holding, collecting and disposing of solid waste
material;
      13.   The plans to provide for medical facilities, including the location
and construction of a medical structure, the names and addresses and hours of
availability of EMTs, and provisions for emergency ambulance service;
      14.   The plans, if any, to illuminate the location of the assembly,
including the source and amount of power and the location of lamps;
      15.   The plans for parking vehicles, including size and location of
lots, points for highway access and interior roads, including routes between
highway access and parking lots;
      16.   The plans for telephone service, including the source, number and
location of telephone;
      17.   The plans for camping facilities, if any, including facilities
available and their location;
      18.   The plans for security, including the number of guards, their
names, addresses, credentials and hours of availability;
      19.   The plans for fire protection, including the number, type and
location of all protective devices, including alarms and extinguishers, and the
number of emergency fire personnel available to operate the equipment; (Ord.
2014-06, 3-17-2014)
      20.   The plans for commercial vending and concessionaires who will be
allowed to operate on the grounds, including the names and addresses for all
concessionaires and their licenses or permit numbers. A food handling permit,
along with a commercial vending permit issued by the county in such amount as
established by the board of county commissioners, will be required of each
commercial vendor. Permit enforcement shall be undertaken by the county EMS
director, or the county sheriff's office. Each commercial vendor must comply
with applicable department of health regulations and requirements, along with
local regulations and requirements. (Ord. 2014-06, 3-17-2014; amd. 2015 Code)
   D.   Fee Included: The application shall include the license fee. (Ord.
2014-06, 3-17-2014)
3-4-5: CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Determination Of Number Permitted: Before a license may be issued, the
applicant shall first determine the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly in consideration of the nature of the
assembly and provided that, where the assembly is to continue overnight, the
maximum number shall not be more than is allowed to sleep within the boundaries
of the location of the assembly by any zoning or health ordinances of the
county.
   B.   Requirements For License Issuance: Before a license may be issued, the
applicant shall provide proof that he will furnish at his expense before that
assembly commences:
      1.   A fence completely enclosing the proposed location, of sufficient
height and strength to prevent people in excess of the maximum permissible
number from gaining access to the assembly grounds, which shall have at least
four (4) gates, at least one at or near four (4) opposite points of the
compass; however, this requirement may be waived if the existing geography
provides a natural boundary;
      2.   Potable water, meeting all federal and state requirements for
purity, sufficient to provide drinking water for the maximum number of people
to be assembled at the rate of at least one gallon per person per day and water
for bathing at the rate of at least five (5) gallons per person per day;
      3.   Separate enclosed toilets for males and females, meeting all state
and local specifications, conveniently located throughout the grounds,
sufficient to provide facilities for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one toilet for every two hundred (200)
females and at least one toilet for every three hundred (300) males, together
with an efficient, sanitary means of disposing of waste matter deposited, which
is in compliance with all state and local laws and regulations; a lavatory with
running water under pressure and a continuous supply of soap and paper towels
shall be provided with each toilet;
      4.   A sanitary method of disposing of solid waste, in compliance with
state and local laws and regulations, sufficient to dispose of the solid waste
production of the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at
least two and one-half (21/2) pounds of solid waste per person, per day,
together with a plan for holding for each day of the assembly and sufficient
trash cans with tightfitting lids and personnel to perform the task;
      5.   Duly certified and licensed emergency medical technicians (EMTs)
serving with Elk Meadows service district, Beaver fire district no. 1, Beaver
County special service district no. 2 and/or Eagle Point Ski Patrol, for the
maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least two (2) EMTs
for every one thousand (1,000) people, together with an enclosed covered
structure where treatment may be rendered, containing separately enclosed
treatment rooms for each EMT and at least one emergency ambulance available for
use at all times, as determined by the county emergency services director;
      6.   If the assembly is to continue during hours of darkness,
illumination sufficient to light the entire area of the assembly with lighting
sufficient in amount reasonably expected to preserve the safety of the
participants, as determined by the county emergency services director, but not
to shine unreasonably beyond the boundaries of the enclosed location of the
assembly;
      7.   A parking area inside of the assembly grounds sufficient to provide
parking space for every four (4) persons, with dedicated parking for emergency
services and law enforcement;
      8.   Telephones connected to outside lines sufficient to provide service
for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one
separate line and receiver for each one thousand (1,000) persons;
      9.   If the assembly is to continue overnight, camping facilities in
compliance with all federal, state and local requirements sufficient to provide
camping accommodations for the maximum number of people to be assembled;
      10.   Security guards, enlisted from the county sheriff's office, county
sheriff's search and rescue and/or local fire districts, and/or other trained
personnel acceptable to the county sheriff's office (with consent not to be
unreasonably withheld) sufficient to provide adequate security for the maximum
number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one security guard for
every two hundred fifty (250) people;
      11.   Fire protection, including alarms, extinguishing devices and fire
lanes and escapes, sufficient to meet all federal, state and local standards
for the location of the assembly and sufficient emergency personnel to
efficiently operate the required equipment;
      12.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age shall be
admitted to any festival unless accompanied by a parent or guardian, said
parent or guardian to remain with the said person at all times.
   C.   Processing Time Limit: The application for a license shall be processed
within twenty (20) days of receipt and shall be issued if all conditions are
met. (Ord. 2014-06, 3-17-2014)
3-4-6: REVOCATION:
The license may be revoked by the county commission at any time if any of the
conditions necessary for the issuing of or contained in the license are not
complied with, or if any condition previously met ceases to be complied with.
(Ord. 2014-06, 3-17-2014)
3-4-7: ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by injunction in any court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2014-06, 3-17-2014)
3-4-8: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
The holding of an assembly in violation of any provisions or conditions
contained in this chapter shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated
as such. (Ord. 2014-06, 3-17-2014)
3-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person who violates subsection 3-4-3A of this chapter or who violates any
condition upon which he is granted a license shall be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor and may be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2014-06, 3-17-2014; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 5
RESTAURANTS AND EATING HOUSES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: License Required
3-5-3: Application For License; Approval
3-5-4: Validity Of License
3-5-5: Inspection Of Premises
3-5-6: Revocation
3-5-7: Display Required
3-5-8: Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words "restaurant" and "eating house" are herein construed to mean any
cafe, dining room, coffee shop or other place where food in any quantity to be
eaten on the premises and meals are served to the public. (2004 Code § 2-410)
3-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, persons or corporation to engage in the
restaurant or eating house business, within the corporate limits of the county,
except when within the corporate limits of any incorporated city or town in
said county, without first having procured a license thereto. (2004 Code § 2-
411)
3-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; APPROVAL:
   A.   Application for a license to engage in the restaurant or eating house
business as herein provided, shall be made by filing a written application with
the county clerk and paying in advance a yearly license fee in such amount as
established by the board of county commissioners, or the pro rata portion
thereof from the date of such application to December 31 of the same year.
Licenses so issued shall expire as of December 31 of each year, and shall be
renewable as of that date. (2004 Code § 2-412; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   All applications for license, as herein provided, shall be approved by
the board of county commissioners, prior to the issuance thereof. (2004 Code §
2-412)
3-5-4: VALIDITY OF LICENSE:
Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be available only to the
person, persons or corporation specified therein and only for the premises
described therein, and shall not be transferable. (2004 Code § 2-413)
3-5-5: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
All premises licensed hereunder shall be subject to inspection by the peace and
health officers of the county, and shall be subject to all rules and
regulations as established by the state board of health. (2004 Code § 2-414)
3-5-6: REVOCATION:
In the event any person, persons or corporation operating any restaurant or
eating house, under license as herein provided, shall fail to comply with any
order of any peace officer, health officer of the county, or any order of the
state board of health, the license so issued may be revoked by an order of the
board of county commissioners. (2004 Code § 2-420)
3-5-7: DISPLAY REQUIRED:
Any license issued under this chapter shall be displayed in a conspicuous place
on the premises so licensed at all times. (2004 Code § 2-421)
3-5-8: PENALTY:
Any person, persons or corporation found guilty of violating any provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2004 Code § 2-422; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 6
FLYING VEHICLES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Defined
3-6-2: Operating Rules
3-6-1: DEFINED:
A flying vehicle is a vehicle that:
   A.   Is used or intended for manned operation in the air by a single
occupant;
   B.   Is used or intended to be used for recreation or sport purposes only;
   C.   Does not have any U.S. or foreign airworthiness certificate; and
   D.   If unpowered, weighs less than one hundred fifty five (155) pounds; or
   E.   If powered:
      1.   Weighs less than two hundred fifty four (254) pounds' empty weight,
excluding floats and safety devices which are intended for deployment in a
potentially catastrophic situation;
      2.   Has a fuel capacity not exceeding five (5) U.S. gallons;
      3.   Is not capable of more than fifty five (55) knots' calibrated
airspeed at full power in level flight; and
      4.   Has a power off stall speed which does not exceed twenty four (24)
knots' calibrated airspeed. (2004 Code § 3-301)
3-6-2: OPERATING RULES:
   A.   No person may operate any flying vehicle in a manner that creates a
hazard to other persons, property or livestock.
   B.   No person may allow an object to be dropped from any flying vehicle if
such action creates a hazard to other persons, property or livestock.
   C.   No flying vehicle may be operated above or in an area where there are
human inhabitants or livestock.
   D.   No person may operate a flying vehicle except between the hours of
sunrise and sunset. (2004 Code § 3-302)
 
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Title
4-1-2: Purpose
4-1-3: Definitions
4-1-4: Administrative Department And Enforcement Agency
4-1-5: Powers And Duties Of Administrative Department
4-1-6: Permits For Management Of Solid Waste
4-1-7: Powers And Duties Of Enforcement Agency
4-1-8: Waste Management Service District No. 5
4-1-9: Time And Frequency Of Collection
4-1-10: Service And Collection Fees
4-1-11: Bonds And Insurance
4-1-12: Title To Waste
4-1-13: Prohibited Acts And Activities
4-1-14: Appeals
4-1-15: Penalty
4-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
ORDINANCE OF BEAVER COUNTY. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993)
4-1-2: PURPOSE:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to regulate the
storage, collection, transport, processing, recovery and disposal of solid
waste in order to protect the public safety, health and welfare, and to enhance
the environment of the people of the county. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-
1993)
4-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings given herein, unless their use in the text of this chapter clearly
demonstrates a different meaning:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: A vehicle that applicable state laws deem to have been
abandoned.
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENCY: The agency or public entity of this county charged with
the administrative management of this chapter.
AGRICULTURAL SOLID WASTE: The solid waste that results from the rearing and
slaughtering of animals and the processing of animal products and orchard and
field crops.
ASBESTOS: The asbestiform varieties of serpentine (chrysotile), riebeckite
(crocidolite), cummingtonite-grunerite, anthophyllite, actinolite-tremolite,
and libby amphibole.
ASBESTOS- CONTAINING MATERIAL: A material containing more than one percent (1%)
asbestos by weight or volume.
BULKY WASTE: Items whose large size precludes or complicates their handling by
normal collection, processing or disposal methods.
BULKY WASTE COLLECTION SITE: A site designated by the district for collection
of bulky waste. Hours of operation set by the district.
COLLECTION: The act of removing solid waste from the central storage point or
at the source of generation.
COLLECTION STATION: A site at which solid waste is concentrated after delivery
by the person generating the solid waste and before processing or disposal.
COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE: Solid waste generated by stores, offices and other
activities that have a standard industrial code number greater than 5200, as
determined by the Utah state tax commission and do not actually turn out a
product.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which an act is required by law to be done
shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except
then when the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be
done on the next succeeding day which is not Sunday or a legal holiday. When a
public office in which an act, required by law, is to be performed is closed to
the public for the entire day which constitutes the last day for doing such
act, or before its usual closing time on such day, then such act may be
performed on the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
DEAD ANIMALS: Animals that have died from any cause, except those slaughtered
for human consumption.
DIRECTOR: That person designated by the waste management service district no.
5, which is responsible for the administrative management of this chapter.
DISPOSAL: The orderly process of discarding useless or unwanted material.
DISTRICT: The waste management service district no. 5.
DUMP: A land site where solid waste is disposed of in a manner that does not
protect the environment.
ENERGY RECOVERY: The obtaining of energy available from the heat generated when
solid waste is incinerated.
ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: The agency of this county charged with the enforcement of
those aspects of this chapter related to the protection of the public safety,
health, welfare and environment.
GENERATION: The act or process of producing solid waste.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: A solid waste or combination of solid wastes which, because of
it quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics
may cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible, illness, or may
pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported or disposed of, or
otherwise managed (see section R450-2-1.2 of the Utah administrative rules).
HOME SCRAP: Scrap that never leaves the manufacturing operation and is
routinely reprocessed. Also referred to as revert scrap, millbroke or
turnaround scrap, and is not intended to infer the same as residential wastes
or junk.
INCINERATION: The controlled process by which solid, liquid or gaseous
combustible wastes are burned and changed into gases, and the residue produced
contains no combustible materials.
INCINERATOR: An engineered apparatus used to burn waste substances and in which
all the factors of combustion, temperature retention time, turbulence and
combustion air, can be controlled.
INDUSTRIAL SCRAP: Scrap that is generated during the manufacture of a product.
INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE: Solid waste that results from industrial processes and
manufacturing that have a standard industrial code between 0 and 5199, as
determined by the Utah state tax commission.
INSTITUTIONAL SOLID WASTE: Solid waste originating from educational, healthcare
and research facilities.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT: A public corporation, created by government for political
purposes, and having subordinate and local powers of legislation: e.g., a
county, town, city, etc., or combination thereof.
NATURAL RESOURCES: Materials which have useful physical or chemical properties
which exist, unused, in nature.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, public or
private corporation, municipal corporation, political subdivision, association,
joint stock company, trust, estate or any other legal representative, agent or
assigns.
POLLUTION: The condition caused by the presence in the environment of substance
of such character and in such quantities that the quality of the environment is
impaired or rendered offensive to live.
PROCESSING: Any method, system or other treatment designed to change the
physical form or chemical content of solid waste.
RECOVERED RESOURCES: Materials which still have useful physical or chemical
properties after serving a specific purpose and can, therefor, be reused or
recycled for the same or other purposes.
RECOVERY: The process of obtaining material or energy resources from solid
waste. Synonyms: extraction, reclamation, salvage.
RECYCLING: The process by which recovered resources are transformed into new
products in such a manner that the original products lose their identity.
RENDERING: A process of recovering fatty substances from animal parts by heat
treatment, extraction and distillation.
REPROCESSING: The action of changing the condition of a secondary material.
RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE: All solid waste that normally originates in a
residential environment. This definition is applicable to any and all
condominium units, without consideration of the number of condominium units
within a building.
RESIDENTIAL USER: Any person generating residential solid waste who is
connected to any public utility, including water, sewer, electrical or natural
gas. The owner of property connected to the public utility shall be deemed to
be the person generating residential solid waste, even though the property has
been rented, leased or otherwise allowed to be used by other tenants.
REUSE: The reintroduction of a commodity into an economic stream without any
change in its physical characteristics.
SALVAGE: The utilization of waste materials.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A site where solid waste is disposed of using sanitary
landfilling techniques.
SANITARY LANDFILLING: An engineered method of disposing of solid waste on land
in a manner that protects the environment by spreading the waste in thin
layers, compacting it to the smallest practical volume, and covering it with
soil by the end of each working day.
SCAVENGING: The uncontrolled removal of materials at any point in solid waste
management.
SCRAP: Discarded or rejected material or parts of material that result from
manufacturing operations and are suitable for reprocessing or recycling.
SECONDARY MATERIAL: A material that is utilized in place of a primary or raw
material in manufacturing a product.
SEPARATION: The systematic division of solid waste into designated components.
SOLID WASTE: Any garbage, refuse, sludge, including sludge from a waste
treatment plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution control
facility, or other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or
contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining or
agricultural operations and from community activities, but does not include
solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage or in irrigation return flows or
discharges for which a permit is required under Utah Code Annotated title 19,
chapter 5, as amended, or under the federal water pollution control act, 33 USC
section 1251 et seq.
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT: The purposeful, systematic control of the generation,
storage, collection, transport, separation, processing, recovery and disposal
of solid waste.
STORAGE: The interim containment of solid waste, in an approved manner, after
generation and prior to ultimate disposal.
TRANSPORT: The movement of solid waste subsequent to collection. (Ord. 93-03,
8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993; amd. Ord. 2011-02, 6-24-2011; 2015 Code; Ord. 2021-
01, 2-16-2021)
4-1-4: ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT AND ENFORCEMENT AGENCY:
   A.   Administrative Department: The waste management service district no. 5
shall be responsible for the administrative management of this chapter and the
rules and regulations authorized in subsection 4-1-5C of this chapter. (Ord.
93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Enforcement Agency: The county sheriff's office shall be responsible
for the enforcement of those aspects related to the protection of the public
safety, health, welfare and environment of this chapter and the rules and
regulations authorized in subsection 4-1-7A of this chapter. Any local law
enforcement agency whose governing body has adopted this chapter may enforce
this chapter within their jurisdictional boundaries. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993,
eff. 10-1-1993)
4-1-5: POWERS AND DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Solid Waste Management Plan: The district shall administer the solid
waste management plan prepared by Stansbury Design Associates for the county.
Such plan is hereby adopted as the solid waste management plan for the county.
   B.   Solid Waste Management Systems: The district shall provide for a solid
waste management system consistent with the solid waste management plan,
consisting of storage, collection, transport, processing, separation, recovery
and disposal through public ownership, or through exclusive agreements with one
or more persons for a part or all of such solid waste system, or they may,
through their permits in subsection D of this section and section
4-1-6 of this chapter, authorize any person to manage the solid waste which
they are responsible pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
   C.   Rules And Regulations: The district may adopt, revise, revoke and
enforce rules and regulations governing the health, safety, welfare and
environmental aspects of solid waste management and administration of this
chapter.
   D.   Permits: The district is hereby authorized to issue permits for all
elements of solid waste management, including alteration of existing facilities
or systems. All such permits shall be nontransferable, shall be for a term of
one year and shall be subject to the fees set forth in subsection 4-1-6H of
this chapter. All permits so issued shall be conditioned upon observance of the
laws of this state, the ordinances of the applicable governing body and the
rules and regulations authorized herein.
   E.   Contracts: All contracts entered into by the district under this
chapter shall meet the following minimum requirements:
      1.   Approved by the district.
      2.   Be approved by legal counsel of the district.
      3.   Meet the insurance requirements of this chapter.
      4.   Be awarded to the lowest most qualified bid.
      5.   Show full details of ownership to the successful bidder, including
the names and addresses of all principals, or officers and majority
stockholders, if a corporation.
      6.   Such other conditions as may be set forth in instructions to bidders
of other necessary qualification, as required by the contemplated work.
   F.   Private Contractor Regulation: The district shall determine the number
of contractors needed to efficiently serve the county and shall issue permits
to the contractor or contractors who are found to be qualified until the needs
of the locality are met. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent one contractor
from providing services to the entire county.
   G.   Nonresidential Solid Waste Service Charges: The district shall
determine whether or not to set or regulate any service charges for
nonresidential waste collection services by private contractors.
   H.   Residential Solid Waste Service Charges: The district shall set service
charges for collection of residential solid waste by resolution in accordance
with the contract they award to the lowest responsible bidder after receiving
consent to accept the bid from Beaver City, Minersville Town, Milford City and
Beaver County. Residential users shall be required to pay the fee whether or
not they utilize the services of the contractor on a weekly basis or not. The
lowest responsible bidder contracting with the district for collection of
residential solid waste shall have the exclusive right to collect residential
solid waste. No other contractor shall be entitled to receive a permit for
collection of residential solid waste. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993)
   I.   Exclusive Right To Collect, Transport And Dispose Of Solid Waste:
      1.   Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 19-6-501 et seq., as
amended, the district shall control the right to collect, transport and dispose
of all solid waste generated within the county, and may by resolution reserve
this exclusive right to itself.
      2.   The district may also by resolution grant the sole and exclusive
right to collect, transport and dispose of solid waste within the county to any
other public entity or entities, any private persons or entities, or any
combination of them. This authority includes the right of the district to enter
franchise agreements with any such persons or entities for specified periods of
time regarding solid waste collection, transport and disposal.
      3.   This exclusive right of control shall be exercised in a manner that
provides solid waste collection, transport and disposal services to county
residential customers and commercial customers at a reasonable, fair market
value for such services.
      4.   After any of the aforementioned exclusive rights are granted in the
manner above stated, any entity or person other than the one granted exclusive
authority shall be guilty of a separate class B misdemeanor for each day that
unauthorized collection, transportation and disposal occurs; each such separate
offense creating civil and/or criminal liability as outlined in section
4-1-15 of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-11, 8-2-2004, eff. 8-18-2004)
4-1-6: PERMITS FOR MANAGEMENT OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Collection, Storage, Transport, Processing And Disposal Permits: The
district shall prepare application forms for all such permits, requiring the
following information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant, showing its legal identity
(corporation, partnership, association, etc.);
      2.   The business address of the applicant, including an address and
phone number in the county and business hours when the applicant can be
contacted to answer questions or resolve concerns;
      3.   The types of waste to be covered by the permit;
      4.   The methods of storage, transport, processing and disposal;
      5.   Proof of all insurance required by this chapter (state financial
responsibility limits for motor vehicles, etc.);
      6.   The routes to be used in transporting and schedules used;
      7.   The location and type of processing and/or disposal contemplated;
      8.   Information as required to indicate compliance with the occupational
safety and health, and environmental protection laws of the federal and/or
state governments;
      9.   A schedule of fees the applicant intends to charge for services
rendered.
   B.   Incinerator Operations Permit: The district is hereby authorized to
prepare application forms for permits to locate and operate incinerators, or to
operate existing incinerators in this locality, requiring the following
information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant, showing its legal identity
(individual, partnership, corporation, etc.);
      2.   The business address of the applicant;
      3.   A full description of each site, including the name and address of
each owner of record. If not owned by the applicant, documentary proof of the
right to use the site, with the appropriate site plans;
      4.   Clear evidence of approval by all other regulatory agencies;
      5.   Operational plan, including classification, anticipated volume and
weight of solid waste to be incinerated, hours of operation, anticipated volume
and weight of residue, and resource recovery activity;
      6.   The method of transporting the residue from the incinerator, the
designation and identity of the carrier involved;
      7.   Certificates of all insurance required by this chapter;
      8.   All other information reasonably required by the district to fulfill
the intent of this chapter.
   C.   Sanitary Landfill Permit: The district is hereby authorized to prepare
application forms for permits to locate and operate a sanitary landfill in this
locality, requiring the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant, showing its legal identity
(individual, partnership, corporation, etc.);
      2.   The business address of the applicant;
      3.   A full description of each site, including the name and address of
each owner of record. If not owned by the applicant, documentary proof of the
right to the site, with the site plans which conform to the requirements of
this chapter;
      4.   Clear evidence of approval by all other regulatory agencies;
      5.   The engineering design report, prepared by an engineer licensed to
practice that profession in this state, including, but not limited to, the
following:
         a.   Hydrology and climatology;
         b.   Soils and geology;
         c.   Site improvements;
         d.   Volume requirements;
         e.   Control of leaching and gas movement;
         f.   Surface and ground water protection;
         g.   Completed use;
         h.   Location of residences and structures;
         i.   Access streets, roads and highways;
      6.   Operational plan, which shall include, but not be limited to:
         a.   Hours of operation;
         b.   Classification of waste;
         c.   Anticipated volume and weight of waste;
         d.   Hazardous waste handling;
         e.   Equipment to be utilized;
         f.   Landfilling methods;
         g.   Availability of cover material;
         h.   Anticipated life of site;
      7.   All other information reasonably required by the district to fulfill
the intent of this chapter.
   D.   Resource Recovery Facility Permit: The district is hereby authorized to
prepare application forms for permits to locate and operate facilities to
recover material or energy resources from solid waste within the locality,
requiring the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant;
      2.   Clear evidence of approval by all other regulatory agencies;
      3.   A full legal description of each site, including the owner of record
or, in nonowned, documentary proof of the right to each site, with appropriate
site plans;
      4.   An operational plan, including the classification, volume and weight
of solid waste to be delivered, the materials to be recovered, anticipated
volume and weight of nonrecoverable residue and hours of operation;
      5.   The method of transporting the residue from the recovery facility,
the destination and identity of the carriers involved;
      6.   Certificates of all insurance required by this chapter;
      7.   All other information reasonably required by the district to fulfill
the intent of this chapter.
   E.   Issuance Of Permit: If the application for any permit required herein
shows that the applicant will perform the services or operate the facility, or
both, for which the permit is sought, in conformity with the laws of this
state, locality and the provisions of this chapter, including all rules and
regulations authorized herein and in conformity with the solid waste management
plan set forth in subsection 4-1-5A of this chapter, the permit or permits
shall be issued. If, in the opinion of the district, modifications can be made
which will bring the application within the intent and purpose of this chapter,
they shall notify the applicant or applicants, in writing, setting forth the
corrections to be made and the time in which such corrections shall be
completed.
   F.   Denial Of Permit: If the applicant fails to make the corrections
pursuant to the notice given under subsection E of this section within the time
limit specified therein, or if the application does not clearly show that the
applicant will render service or operate the facility without health hazard or
adverse effects on the environment, the application shall be denied and the
applicant notified, in writing, stating therein the reasons for the denial.
Nothing in this section shall prevent any applicant from reapplying after the
rejection of his application, provided the requirements of this chapter are
met.
   G.   Renewal Of Permit: Any permit holder desiring to renew an existing
permit shall complete and submit to the district an application therefor not
more than ninety (90) days nor less than thirty (30) days before the existing
permit expires, together with such permit fees as are herein required. (Ord.
93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993)
   H.   Fees For Permit:
      1.   Each application for a permit, or renewal application, shall be
accompanied by a certified check or money order in the amounts established by
the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993; amd.
2015 Code)
      2.   All fees required by this subsection H shall be placed in the
special fund of the district for operation and maintenance of the comprehensive
solid waste management system.
   I.   Permit Number; Display: All motor vehicles operating under any permit
required by this chapter shall display the permit number or numbers on each
side, in colors which contrast with that of the vehicle, such numbers to be
clearly legible and not less than twelve inches (12") high. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-
1993, eff. 10-1-1993)
4-1-7: POWERS AND DUTIES OF ENFORCEMENT AGENCY:
   A.   Rules And Regulations: The enforcement agency shall enforce rules and
regulations governing the health, safety, welfare and environmental aspects of
solid waste management within this locality. These rules and regulations must
be compatible with state law and applicable state rules and regulations.
   B.   Inspections: In order to ensure compliance with the laws of this state,
the ordinances of this locality and the rules and regulations authorized
herein, the district and the enforcement agency are authorized to inspect, at
reasonable times, all phases of solid waste management within this locality.
   C.   Notices: In all instances where such inspections reveal violations of
this chapter, the rules and regulations governing solid waste management, or
the laws of this state, the enforcement agency shall issue written notice for
each such violation, stating therein the violation or violations found, the
date and time of such violation and the corrective measures to be taken,
together with the time in which such corrections shall be made. All such
notices shall be kept in a clearly marked file and shall be available for
public inspection during regular business hours.
   D.   Citations:
      1.   In all notices involving permit holders where the corrective
measures have not been taken within the time specified, the enforcement agency
shall cite the violator to appear before the district; provided, however, in
those cases where an extension of time will permit correction and where there
is no public health hazard created by the delay, one extension of time, not to
exceed the original period, may be given.
      2.   In all instances where the inspections authorized in subsection B of
this section reveal violations of the laws of this state, the ordinances of
this locality, the rules and regulations in subsection A of this section, or
when the enforcement agency is aware of any such violation, the violator shall
be cited to appear in court at a day and time shown in the citation.
   E.   Hearings: The enforcement agency shall appear, through its authorized
personnel, and present its evidence, through the county attorney's office, of
the violations charged. The permit holder cited may appear in person or through
his attorney and may cross examine the enforcement agency witnesses prior to
presenting evidence on his behalf.
   F.   Opinion: The district shall decide the issue and shall, within ten (10)
days of the conclusion of the hearing, render an opinion in writing, in which
opinion he may suspend or revoke the permit or permits involved in the hearing.
   G.   Injunction: In all cases where the violation of this chapter or the
rules and regulations authorized herein, or the laws of this state, create an
immediate threat to the safety, health, welfare or environment of the residents
of this locality, the enforcement agency shall cite the violator, stating
therein the necessary corrective measures that must be taken forthwith, the
enforcement agency shall notify the county attorney who shall immediately apply
to the court for an injunction prohibiting further violation as shown in the
notice authorized in subsection C of this section. The provision of this
subsection shall be in addition to and not in substitution of any other section
or sections. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993)
4-1-8: WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICE DISTRICT NO. 5:
The waste management service district no. 5 shall: (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993, eff.
10-1-1993; amd. 2015 Code)
   A.   Aid in the preparation of the solid waste management plan, including
the selection of solid waste management sites within this locality.
   B.   Review permit application forms and recommend revisions thereof, which
shall be consistent with the terms of this chapter.
   C.   Issue all permits required under this chapter.
   D.   Attend all hearings called under this chapter for the adoption,
revision or revocation of rules and regulations authorized herein. It shall
make such rules and regulations as are authorized by its bylaws.
   E.   Attend all public hearings called for establishing or altering rates,
charges or fees required by this chapter.
   F.   Attend all hearings held regarding complaints arising from the
administration of this chapter. The district shall make recommendations to the
county commission which, in its opinion, would alleviate the cause of such
complaints. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993)
4-1-9: TIME AND FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION:
   A.   The district shall be responsible to develop a pick up schedule with
the contractor for collection of residential solid waste within the county on
an as needed basis, after giving due consideration to solid waste quantity,
pest control, odors, etc.
   B.   Any person generating solid wastes shall be required to utilize a
contractor with a permit issued by the district to transport their solid waste
to a sanitary landfill or to transport such solid waste themselves. However,
every residential user shall be required to pay the fee set by the district for
mandatory pick up. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993)
4-1-10: SERVICE AND COLLECTION FEES:
   A.   District To Set Fees: The district shall be responsible to set fees by
resolution for all aspects of solid waste management as necessary to pay for
services provided by the district. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993)
   B.   Residential Collection: A fee for collection of residential solid waste
from residential users located in the unincorporated areas of the county is
hereby imposed. Such fee shall be set by resolution of the administrative
control board of the waste management service district no. 5. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-
1993, eff. 10-1-1993; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Delinquent Service Fees:
      1.   The district shall arrange to be furnished to each user by mail or
otherwise, a written or printed statement stating the solid waste service
charges assessed against such residential user once each month or at such other
regular intervals as the district shall direct. The statement shall specify the
amount of the bill, the place of payment and the date due.
      2.   If any residential user fails to pay his residential service charge
within thirty (30) days of the date due, the entity providing utility services
to such premises shall have the option of discontinuing such utility service to
such premises, unless the customer pays the bill in full within a specified
date of the date of notice.
      3.   If any residential user fails to pay his service charge within
thirty (30) days of the due date, the service district is hereby authorized to
take all action necessary to enforce collection, including, but not limited to,
the commencement of legal proceedings in a court of proper jurisdiction seeking
judgment for the amount of the delinquent fees and service charges, and all
costs of collection, including court costs and attorney fees.
      4.   The service district shall have the authority to determine that the
delinquent service charges may be assessed against the premises of the
residential user. If they determine to assess the real property of the
residential user the amount of delinquent services charges, they shall give
notice of the assessment in writing to the county commissioners. The county
commissioners shall confirm the assessment and cause the same to be recorded on
the assessment roll, and thereafter said assessment shall constitute a special
assessment against, and a lien upon the property.
   D.   Contest: The validity of any assessment made under the provisions of
this section shall not be contested in any action or proceeding unless the same
is commenced within thirty (30) days after the assessment is placed upon the
assessment roll as provided herein. Any appeal from a final judgment and such
action or proceeding must be perfected within thirty (30) days after the entry
of such judgment.
   E.   Lien Or Assessment: Immediately upon being placed on the assessment
roll, the assessment shall be deemed to be complete, the several amounts
assessed shall be payable, and the assessment shall be liens against the lots
or parcels of land assessed, respectively. The liens shall be subordinate to
all existing special assessment liens previously imposed upon the same property
and shall be paramount to all other liens, except for state, county and
property taxes with which it shall be upon a parity. The liens shall continue
until the assessment and all interest due and payable thereon are paid.
   F.   Interest: All such assessments remaining unpaid after thirty (30) days
from the date of recording on the assessment roll shall become delinquent and
shall bear interest at the same rate that the assessor assess on other property
which have delinquent taxes due thereon.
   G.   Report To Assessor And Tax Collector; Addition Of Assessment To Tax
Bill: After confirmation of the report, certified copies of the assessment
shall be given to the assessor and the tax collector for the county, who shall
add the amount of the assessment to the next regular tax bill levied against
the parcel for county purposes.
   H.   Collection Of Assessment; Penalties For Foreclosure: The amount of the
assessment shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
ordinary property taxes are collected; and shall be subject to the same
penalties and procedures and sale in case of delinquency as provided for
ordinary property taxes. All laws applicable to the levy, collection and
enforcement of property taxes shall be applicable to such assessment. (Ord. 93-
03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993)
   I.   Repayment To District: All funds collected shall be delivered to the
waste management service district no. 5. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993;
amd. 2015 Code)
4-1-11: BONDS AND INSURANCE:
   A.   Performance Bonds: All persons who contract with the district to manage
solid waste shall furnish performance bonds conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their agreements. All such bonds shall be written by an
insurance company licensed to transact business in this state and shall be for
a sum of not less than one-half (1/2) of the annual sum paid to each such
contractor. No such bond shall exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the annual
contract payment to each contractor. Each performance bond shall be for a
period equal to the initial contract term, or any extension thereof.
   B.   Payment Bonds: Each contractor referred to above shall, not less than
ten (10) days after the execution of each contract, deliver to the district
proof of a payment bond executed by a surety company licensed to transact
business in this state, guaranteeing payment of wages to all employees of the
contractor and the cost of all supplies, materials and insurance premiums
required in fulfilling each contract.
   C.   Liability Insurance: All contractors and permit holders under the
provisions of this chapter shall furnish proof to the district of liability
insurance covering all aspects of their activities under this chapter. No
personal injury policy shall be for less than five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) per person, or one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per accident.
No property damage policy shall be for less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per accident. All policies required by this chapter shall have
a minimum cancellation period of not less than thirty (30) days after receipt
in writing of the notice of cancellation by the district. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-
1993, eff. 10-1-1993)
4-1-12: TITLE TO WASTE:
In the absence of an agreement to the contrary, title to the solid waste shall
vest in the owner of each management activity or facility in which the solid
waste is placed. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993)
4-1-13: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Dead Animals:
      1.   Placement In Container: It shall be unlawful to place any dead
animal, or parts thereof, in a container for collection without the consent of
the district; provided, however, this subsection shall not apply to animal
parts from commercial food preparation for human consumption.
      2.   Delivery To Approved Site: Any person that owns a dead animal shall
be responsible for delivering the dead animal to an approved dead animal site.
Dead animals shall not be disposed of at a sanitary landfill.
      3.   Number Accepted: No more than five (5) large, ten (10) medium or
twenty (20) small dead animals shall be accepted by Waste Management Service
District #5 from any single producer during a one week period. Emergency
exceptions may be made with the approval of the Administrative Control Board of
Waste Management Service District #5. (Ord. 2018-04, 6-5-2018)
   B.   Bulky Waste: Any person generating bulky waste shall be responsible for
delivering the bulky waste to an approved bulky waste collection or disposal
site within the County as directed by the district. Bulky waste shall not be
disposed of at a sanitary landfill.
   C.   Littering: It shall be unlawful to place, or allow to be placed, any
solid waste upon the roads, streets, public or private property within this
County contrary to the provisions of this chapter or State and Federal laws.
   D.   Acts Contrary To Chapter: It shall be unlawful to store, collect,
transport, transfer, recover, incinerate or dispose of any solid waste within
the boundaries of this locality contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Vehicle Construction: It shall be unlawful to transport any solid waste
in any vehicle which permits the contents to blow, sift, leak or fall
therefrom.
   F.   Interference With Authorized Solid Waste Management: It shall be
unlawful for any person to interfere with any employee of the County, the
district, or any employee of a contractor while in the performance of their
duties as authorized by this chapter. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993)
   G.   Scavenging: It shall be unlawful for any person to scavenge any solid
waste within the boundaries of any landfill operated by the Waste Management
Service District no. 5 (the "Service District" or "district"). However, the
Service District, or any agent or employee of the Service District, may collect
and recycle solid waste held on or within landfill boundaries for the sole and
exclusive benefit of the Service District. (Ord. 2014-08, 4-21-2014)
   H.   False Information: It shall be unlawful for any person to make any
false statement in any application required by this chapter.
   I.   Dumps Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate
a dump.
   J.   Illegal Use Of Permit Number: It shall be unlawful to display any
permit number unless the person displaying such number or numbers holds a valid
permit or permits therefor.
   K.   Hazardous Waste: No person shall place any hazardous waste in any
container for collection, transport, processing or disposal until the district
has approved the method of storage, transport, processing or disposal. (Ord.
93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993)
   L.   Illegal Dumping In Nondesignated Containers: It shall be unlawful for
any person to dispose of solid waste by placing the solid waste, or causing it
to be placed, in a dumpster, can, roll-off or container, other than the
dumpster, can, roll-off or container assigned to them for use.
   M.   Out of County Asbestos Disposal: It shall be unlawful for any asbestos
originating outside Beaver County to be disposed in any Beaver County owned or
managed landfill.
   N.   Third Party Asbestos Disposal: It shall be illegal for a person or
third party to dispose of any asbestos or asbestos-containing material on
behalf of a person or involved party originating outside Beaver County. (Ord.
2014-08, 4-21-2014; amd. Ord. 2021-01, 2-16-2021)
4-1-14: APPEALS:
   A.   Authorized; Time Limit For Filing: Any person who feels aggrieved by
any action of the district, its employees or agents, or the enforcement agency
may, within fourteen (14) days of the act for which redress is sought, appeal
to the district, in writing, setting forth a concise statement of the act being
appealed and the grounds for its reversal.
   B.   Hearing; Notice: The district shall, within thirty (30) days following
the receipt of each written appeal, schedule a hearing date and notify the
appellant and the enforcement agency in writing of the date and time of the
scheduled hearing. The appellant may appear on his own behalf, or through
counsel, and may present his witnesses. The district or the enforcement agency
may present rebuttal testimony and witnesses.
   C.   Notice Of Decision: The district shall, within fifteen (15) days after
the hearing, notify the enforcement agency of its decision, either approving or
disapproving the decision and shall forward one copy to the appellant.
   D.   District Court Appeal: Any person who feels aggrieved by any act of the
district or enforcement agency may waive the provision of subsections A through
C of this section and, within the time limit specified therein, appeal directly
to the County District Court.
   E.   Stay Of Opinion: During all appeals authorized herein, the opinion of
the district shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993, eff.
10-1-1993)
4-1-15: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter, or the rules and
regulations authorized herein, shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of knowing violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 93-03, 8-2-1993, eff. 10-1-1993;
amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisances Defined
4-2-2: Author Of Nuisance
4-2-3: Nuisances Declared
4-2-4: Enumeration Of Nuisances
4-2-5: Toilet Or Sewer Facilities
4-2-6: Restrictions On Blocking Water
4-2-7: Abatement Of Weeds And Deleterious Objects
4-2-8: Nuisances On Property
4-2-9: Enforcement And Penalty
4-2-1: NUISANCES DEFINED:
Whatever is dangerous to human life or health, and whatever renders soil, air,
water or food impure or unwholesome, is declared to be a nuisance and unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person, either as an owner, agent or occupant, to
create, or aid in creating, or contributing to or maintaining a nuisance. (2004
Code § 3-110)
4-2-2: AUTHOR OF NUISANCE:
Where a nuisance exists upon property and is the outgrowth of the usual,
natural or necessary use of the property, the landlord or his agent, the tenant
or his agent, and all other persons having control of the property on which
such nuisance exists shall be deemed to be the authors thereof and shall be
equally liable and responsible. Where any such nuisance shall arise from the
unusual or unnecessary use of such property or from the business thereon
conducted, then the occupants and all other persons contributing to the
continuance of such nuisance shall be deemed the authors. (2004 Code § 3-111)
4-2-3: NUISANCES DECLARED:
Every act or condition made, permitted, allowed or continued in violation of
section
4-2-2 of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be abated
and punished as hereinafter provided. Nuisances include, but are not limited
to:
   A.   Befouling water in any spring, stream, well or water source supplying
water for culinary purposes.
   B.   Allowing any privy vault or cesspool or other individual wastewater
disposal system to become a menace to health or a source of odors to air or
water.
   C.   Permitting any garbage container to remain on premises when it has
become unclean and offensive.
   D.   Allowing vegetable waste, garbage, litter, filth or refuse of any
nature to accumulate within or upon any private alley, yard or area, except
when it is temporarily deposited for immediate removal.
   E.   Permitting the accumulation of manure in any stable, stall, corral,
feed yard or yard, or in any other building or area in which any animals are
kept.
   F.   Permitting any slaughterhouse, market, meat shop, stable or feed yard,
or other place or building wherein any animals are slaughtered, kept, fed or
sold, to remain unclean or in any state or condition detrimental to health or
creating a nuisance because of odors, or in which flies or rodents breed.
   G.   Discharging or placing any offensive water, liquid waste or refuse of
any kind into any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash, natural
watercourse, ditch, canal or any vacant lot on which as the result of continued
discharge will render the place of discharge offensive or likely to become so.
   H.   Keeping or collecting any stale or putrid grease or other offensive
matter.
   I.   Having or permitting upon any premises any fly or mosquito producing
condition.
   J.   Keeping any drinking vessel for public use without providing a method
of decontamination between uses.
   K.   Permitting or performing any ablutions in or near any public drinking
fountain.
   L.   Failing to furnish any dwelling house, boarding house or factory or
other place of employment with such privy vaults, water closets, sinks or other
facilities as may be required to maintain the same in sanitary condition.
   M.   Neglecting or refusing to discontinue use of, clean out, disinfect and
fill up all privy vaults and cesspools or other individual wastewater disposal
systems within twenty (20) days after notice from an enforcement officer or
official of the county.
   N.   Permitting any lot or excavation to become the repository of stagnant
water or any decaying or offensive substances.
   O.   Obstruction or tending to obstruct or interfere with or render
dangerous for passage any street or sidewalk, lake, stream, drainage, canal or
basin, or any public park without first obtaining the written permission of the
governing body. (2004 Code § 3-112)
4-2-4: ENUMERATION OF NUISANCES:
The types of nuisances above stated shall be deemed in addition to and in no
way a limitation of the nuisances subject to this chapter. (2004 Code § 3-113)
4-2-5: TOILET OR SEWER FACILITIES:
All toilet or sewer facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with the ordinances of the county. All such facilities that do not
comply with such provisions are hereby declared to be a nuisance and are
subject to abatement as herein proscribed. (2004 Code § 3-114)
4-2-6: RESTRICTIONS ON BLOCKING WATER:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to permit any drainage
system, canal, ditch, conduit or other watercourse of any kind or nature,
natural or artificial, to become so obstructed as to cause the water to back up
and overflow therefrom, or to become unsanitary.
   B.   Maintenance of any such watercourse in such condition shall constitute
a nuisance and the same shall be subject to abatement. (2004 Code § 3-115)
4-2-7: ABATEMENT OF WEEDS AND DELETERIOUS OBJECTS:
   A.   Weeds Defined: Weeds shall include any vegetation commonly referred to
as a weed, or which shall have been designated a noxious weed by the state
commissioner of agriculture. (2004 Code § 3-132)
   B.   Standards Of Weed Control:
      1.   It is hereby declared that the weeds stated in subsection A of this
section constitute a nuisance when they create a fire hazard, a source of
contamination, or pollution of the water, air or property, a danger to health,
a breeding place or habitation for insects or rodents or other forms of life
deleterious to humans or are unsightly or deleterious to their surroundings.
      2.   The cut weeds shall be removed from the premises within forty eight
(48) hours after cutting. (2004 Code § 3-133)
   C.   Maintenance Of Real Property: It shall be unlawful for any person
owning or occupying real property zoned residential to allow weeds to grow
higher than fifteen inches (15") to twenty inches (20") on such property, or
not to remove from such property any cuttings or such weeds, or any refuse,
unsightly or deleterious objects, after having been given notice from the
building inspector as hereinafter provided. (2004 Code § 3-131; amd. 2015 Code)
4-2-8: NUISANCES ON PROPERTY:
   A.   Nuisance Defined: For the purpose of this section, the term "nuisance"
is defined to mean any condition of use of a premises or of building exteriors
which are deleterious or injurious, noxious or unsightly, which includes, but
is not limited to, keeping or depositing on or scattering over the premises any
of the following:
      1.   Lumber, junk, trash or debris.
      2.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment, such as
furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, car bodies, cans or containers.
(2004 Code § 3-141)
   B.   Maintenance Of Private Property: No person owning, leasing, occupying
or having charge of any premises shall maintain or keep any nuisance thereon,
nor shall any such person keep or maintain such premises in a manner causing
substantial diminution on the value of the other property in the neighborhood
in which such premises is located. (2004 Code § 3-142)
   C.   Storage Of Personal Property: Unsheltered storage of old, unused,
stripped and junked machinery, implements, equipment or personal property of
any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was
manufactured, for a period of thirty (30) days or more (except in licensed
junkyards) within this municipality, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and
dangerous to the public safety. (2004 Code § 3-143)
   D.   Abatement By Owners: The owner, owners, tenants, lessees or occupants
of any lot within this county on which such "storage", as defined in subsection
C of this section is made, and also the owner, owners or lessees of the above
described personal property involved in such storage, shall jointly and
severally abate such nuisance by its prompt removal into completely enclosed
and secured buildings to be used for such purposes, or otherwise remove such
property from the municipality. (2004 Code § 3-144)
4-2-9: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Nuisance Inspector:
      1.   Appointment: There is hereby established the position of nuisance
inspector, whose duties it shall be to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Until another person is designated, the building inspector shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter. More than one person may be appointed to act as
inspector under this section.
      2.   Authority: The nuisance inspector is authorized to:
         a.   Perform all functions necessary to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
         b.   Inspect or cause to be inspected, as often as needed, all
buildings, structures, lots or places for the purpose of determining whether
such are in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Action: If the nuisance inspector concludes there exists an
objectionable condition in violation of this chapter, the inspector shall:
         a.   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants and description
of the premises where such objects and conditions exist.
         b.   Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant of such
premises, either personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to
the owner and occupant at their last known post office address as disclosed by
the records of the county assessor, or as otherwise ascertained, requiring such
owner or occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate or destroy and
remove the same within such time as the inspector may designate; provided, that
any person notified pursuant to this subsection shall be given at least ten
(10) but not more than twenty (20) days, as determined by the inspector
following the date of service of such notice, to correct the objectionable
condition. The notice shall:
            (1)   Contain a specific statement of the nature of the violation
and generally describe the premises on which the violation exists.
            (2)   Inform the owner, occupant or other person that in the event
he disagrees with the determination of the inspector and does not wish to
comply with the provisions of the notice or that he objects to the factual or
legal basis for the notice, he may request in writing a hearing before the
governing body at a time and place to be set by the governing body. A written
application for a hearing shall stay the time within which the person must
conform to the provisions of the notice.
            (3)   Inform the person that in the event he fails or neglects to
correct the objectionable condition, the county will collect the costs of so
correcting the objectionable condition by either a court action, in which case
he will be assessed such costs, together with reasonable attorney fees and
court costs, or will charge the cost of correcting the violation against the
property as a tax.
         c.   In the event the owner or occupant makes such request for a
hearing, the governing body shall set the time and place for hearing objections
and the county clerk shall notify the owner, occupant or other persons in
writing of the time and place at which they may appear and be heard. The
hearing shall not be heard within less than five (5) days from the date of
service or mailing of the notice of hearing. (2004 Code § 3-181)
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   At the written request of an owner, occupant or other person having
an interest in property which is the subject of a notice to remove or abate
weeds, objectionable conditions or objects from the property, the governing
body shall conduct an informal hearing (which need not be reported) wherein
such persons may present such evidence and argument as is pertinent to the
question of whether or not the removal or abatement of the objects or
conditions is properly within the purview of this chapter. The governing body
shall also permit the presentation of evidence and argument by the inspector
and other interested parties. Thereafter within not less than five (5) nor more
than ten (10) days, the governing body shall, over the signature of the
chairperson of the county commission or such other commissioner as it may
designate, render its written decision, a copy of which shall be mailed to or
served upon the owner or other person to whom the original notice was given by
the inspector.
      2.   In the event the decision of the governing body upholds the
determination of the inspector, the notice originally given by the inspector as
above provided shall be deemed to be sufficient to require the owner or
occupant to remove or abate the objectionable objects or conditions, and he
shall have up to ten (10) days from the date of notice of the additional time,
not to exceed thirty (30) days, as authorized by the inspector.
      3.   In the event that the decision of the governing body either
overrules or modifies the determination of the inspector, the written decision
of the governing body shall apprise the owner or occupant of that fact and set
forth the details and extent to which the owner or occupant must make removal
or other abatement of the objectionable objects or conditions, if any. The
owner or occupant shall be required to conform to the decision of the governing
body within ten (10) days after service or mailing of a copy of the decision,
and the decision shall be deemed to be the modified decision of the inspector
unless additional time is authorized by the governing body.
      4.   The inspector shall file an amended notice and proof of service of
notice and file the same in the office of the county treasurer. (2004 Code § 3-
182)
   C.   Failure To Comply: If any owner, occupant or other person having an
interest in and described in such notice or decision to whom the notice was
given shall fail or neglect to conform to the requirements thereof relating to
the eradication, destruction or removal of such weeds, garbage, refuse, objects
or structures, the inspector shall employ all necessary assistance to cause
such objectionable objects or conditions to be removed or destroyed at the
expense of the county. (2004 Code § 3-183)
   D.   Itemized Statement: The inspector shall prepare an itemized statement
of all expenses incurred in the removal and destruction of nuisances, and shall
mail a copy thereof to the owner or occupant, or both, or to persons having an
interest in the property, demanding payment within twenty (20) days of the date
of mailing. The notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by registered mail
addressed to the last known address of the property owner, occupant or persons
having an interest in the property. (2004 Code § 3-184)
   E.   Failure To Make Payment: In the event the owner, occupant or person
having an interest in the property fails to make payment of the amount set
forth in the statement to the county treasurer within the twenty (20) days, the
inspector either may cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court of law or
may refer the matter to the county treasurer as provided in this chapter. (2004
Code § 3-185)
   F.   Collection By Lawsuit: In the event collection of expenses of
destruction and removal are pursued through the courts, the county shall sue
for and receive judgment for all of said expenses of destruction and removal,
together with reasonable attorney fees, interest and court costs, and shall
execute upon such judgment in the manner provided by law. (2004 Code § 3-186)
   G.   Collection Through Taxes: In the event that the inspector elects to
refer the expenses of destruction or removal to the county treasurer for
inclusion on the tax notice of the property owner, he shall make in triplicate
an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in the destruction and removal
of the same, and shall deliver the three (3) copies of the statement to the
county treasurer within ten (10) days after the completion of the work of
destroying or removing such weeds, refuse, garbage, objects or structures.
Thereupon, the costs of the work shall be pursued by the county treasurer in
accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 17-53-220, as
amended, and the recalcitrant owner shall have such rights and shall be subject
to such powers as are granted by state law. (2004 Code §
   H.   Criminal Proceeding: The commencement of criminal proceedings for the
purpose of imposing penalties for violations of this chapter shall not be
conditioned upon prior issuance of a notice or the granting to the defendant of
an opportunity to abate or remove the nuisance. The provisions of this chapter
relating to notice and abatement shall be deemed merely alternative and
additional methods of securing conformity to the provisions of this chapter.
(2004 Code § 3-188)
   I.   Penalty For Failure To Comply:
      1.   Any owner, occupant or person having an interest in the property
subject to this chapter who shall fail to comply with the notice or order given
pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each violation of this chapter shall be considered a
separate offense and each day such violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
      2.   Compliance by any owner, occupant or person to whom a notice has
been given as provided in this chapter shall not be admissible in any criminal
proceeding brought pursuant to this section. (2004 Code § 3-189; amd. 2015
Code)
CHAPTER 3
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Property Maintenance Code Adopted
4-3-2: Additions, Insertions, Deletions And Changes
4-3-3: Conflicts
4-3-4: Validity
4-3-5: Suit Or Proceeding Impending In Any Court
4-3-6: Enforcement And Penalty
4-3-1: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED:
That certain document, which is on file in the office of the county clerk,
being marked and designated as the international property maintenance code,
2006 edition, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the property maintenance code of the county for regulating and
governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure the structures are
safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition
of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provision, penalties, conditions and terms of said property maintenance code on
file in the office of the county clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made
a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
4-3-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-08, 10-19-2007)
4-3-2: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, DELETIONS AND CHANGES:
Section 101.1: Beaver County.
Section 103.5: First owner request investigation fee $85.00.
    Other fees charged at building permit fees.
    Remodel 25% of new construction fees.
Section 302.4: Twelve (12) inches.
Section 304.14: May 1 to November 1.
Section 602.3: September 1 to May 30.
Section 602.4: September 1 to May 30.
(Ord. 2007-08, 10-19-2007)
4-3-3: CONFLICT:
Any and all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed. (Ord. 2007-08, 10-19-2007)
4-3-4: VALIDITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is, for
any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The board of county
commissioners hereby declares that it would have passed this chapter, and each
section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be
declared unconstitutional. (Ord. 2007-08, 10-19-2007)
4-3-5: SUIT OR PROCEEDING IMPENDING IN ANY COURT:
Nothing in this chapter or in the property maintenance code hereby adopted
shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any court, or
any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action
acquired or existing under any act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in
section
4-3-3 of this chapter, nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any
character be lost, impaired or affected by this chapter. (Ord. 2007-08, 10-19-
2007)
4-3-6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Code Official: There is hereby established the position of code
official, whose duties it shall be to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Until another person is designated, the building inspector shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Failure To Make Payment: In the event the owner, occupant or person
having an interest in the property fails to make payment of any amount required
under this chapter to the county treasurer within the twenty (20) days after
notice, the code official either may cause suit to be brought in an appropriate
court of law or may refer the matter to the county treasurer as provided in
this chapter.
   C.   Collection By Lawsuit: In the event collection of expenses of
destruction and removal are pursued through the courts, the municipality shall
sue for and receive judgment for all of said expenses of destruction and
removal, together with reasonable attorney fees, interest and court costs, and
shall execute upon such judgment in the manner provided by law.
   D.   Collection Through Taxes: In the event that the code official elects to
refer the expenses of destruction or removal to the county treasurer for
inclusion in the tax notice of the property owner, he shall make in triplicate
an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in the destruction and removal
of the same, and shall deliver the three (3) copies of the statement to the
county treasurer within ten (10) days after the completion of the work of
destroying or removing such weeds, refuse, garbage, objects or structures.
Thereupon, the cost of the work shall be attached to the property under the
authority of Utah Code Annotated section 17-53-220, as amended, and the
recalcitrant owner shall have such rights and shall be subject to such powers
as are granted in county property tax proceedings.
   E.   Criminal Proceedings: The commencement of criminal proceedings for the
purpose of imposing penalties for violations of this chapter shall not be
conditioned upon prior issuance or the granting to the defendant of an
opportunity to abate or remove the nuisance. The provisions of this chapter
reliant to notice and abatement shall be deemed merely alternative and
additional methods of securing conformity to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-08, 10-19-2007)
   F.   Penalty For Failure To Comply:
      1.   Any owner, occupant or person having an interest in the property
subject to this chapter who shall fail to comply with the notice or order given
pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for each offense. Each violation of this chapter shall be
considered a separate offense, and each day such violation is permitted to
exist shall constitute a separate offense.
      2.   Compliance by any owner, occupant or person to whom a notice has
been given as provided in this chapter shall not be admissible in any criminal
proceeding brought pursuant to this section. (Ord. 2007-08, 10-19-2007; amd.
2015 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Title
4-4-2: Purpose
4-4-3: Definitions
4-4-4: Restrictions
4-4-5: Exceptions
4-4-6: Posting Of Signs
4-4-7: Enforcement
4-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the TOBACCO RESTRICTION COUNTY ORDINANCE. (Ord.
2015-03, 3-2-2015)
4-4-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   To encourage a tobacco free environment with the intent of reducing
health risks associated with tobacco use.
   B.   To reduce tobacco related trash and litter on county property.
   C.   To protect citizens of and visitors to Beaver County from harmful
secondhand smoke.
   D.   To comply with the Utah indoor clean air act, Utah code section 26-38.
(Ord. 2015-03, 3-2-2015)
4-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
COUNTY PROPERTY: Any property owned by Beaver County, including, but not
limited to, land, buildings, vehicles, equipment, lots, parks, and fairgrounds.
SMOKELESS TOBACCO: Tobacco products that are not lighted or heated for the
inhalation of smoke, including, but not limited to, chewing tobacco.
SMOKING: Holds its statutory definition under Utah code section 26-38-2(4),
meaning:
   A.   The possession of any lighted or heated tobacco product in any form;
   B.   Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or heating a substance containing tobacco
or nicotine inhalation through a cigar, cigarette, pipe, or hookah;
   C.   Using an e-cigarette; or
   D.   Using an oral smoking device intended to circumvent the prohibition of
smoking.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product containing tobacco, whether that product is
intended to be burned and/or inhaled or for use as smokeless tobacco, as well
as products used in aid of the consumption of tobacco, such as pipes, hookahs,
etc. (Ord. 2015-03, 3-2-2015)
4-4-4: RESTRICTIONS:
The use of any tobacco products including e-cigarettes is restricted upon any
county property as follows:
   A.   Tobacco products including e-cigarettes shall be prohibited at the
Beaver County Fairgrounds except in the west parking lot area, and no closer
than one hundred feet (100') from the chainlink fence located just west of the
playground area.
   B.   Tobacco products including e-cigarettes shall not be used within one
hundred feet (100') of the pavilion located at the Minersville Lake Park.
   C.   Tobacco products including e-cigarettes shall be prohibited within one
hundred feet (100') from a main entrance, exit or operable window of any county
building. (Ord. 2015-03, 3-2-2015)
4-4-5: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter do not apply within the boundaries of
incorporated cities and towns located in Beaver County.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter do not apply if the property owned by
the county is a dedicated, deeded or prescriptive road, easement or public
right of way. (Ord. 2015-03, 3-2-2015)
4-4-6: POSTING OF SIGNS:
   A.   Signs indicating the prohibition of tobacco products, including the use
of the international "no smoking" symbol and the words "No Smoking" no less
than 1.5 inches in height, may be posted at vehicle and pedestrian entrances to
county property.
   B.   The absence of a sign on county property does not mean tobacco products
are allowed and does not remove any liability otherwise imposed by this
chapter. (Ord. 2015-03, 3-2-2015)
4-4-7: ENFORCEMENT:
Any person found in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2015-03, 3-2-2015)
CHAPTER 5
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
SECTION:
4-5-1: Purpose Of Provisions
4-5-2: Applicability
4-5-3: Definitions
4-5-4: Guidelines
4-5-5: Protection Zones Established
4-5-6: Permitted Uses
4-5-7: Prohibited Uses
4-5-8: Dispute Procedure
4-5-9: Administration
4-5-1: PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS:
To ensure the provision of a safe and sanitary drinking water supply to the
residents of the county, by the establishment of drinking water source
protection zones surrounding the wells and springs used by public drinking
water systems in the unincorporated areas of the county, and by the designation
and regulation of property uses and conditions that may be maintained within
such zones. Included under this chapter are those source protection zones
falling within unincorporated areas of the county, associated with public
drinking water sources not owned or operated by the county. (Ord. 2020-08, 9-
15-2020)
4-5-2: APPLICABILITY:
The applicability of this chapter extends to both incorporated and
unincorporated sections of the county, unless an incorporated municipality
within the county enacts an ordinance in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
section 10-18-15 and/or 19-4-113. (Ord. 2020-08, 9-15-2020)
4-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this Section:
CULINARY      The department, agency or public entity with responsibility to review and
WATER         approve the feasibility of the culinary water systems and sources for a subject
AUTHORITY:    property.
DESIGN        A control which is implemented by a potential contamination source to prevent
STANDARD:     discharge to the ground water. Spill protection is an example of a design
              standard.
DRINKING      The specified surface and subsurface area surrounding a groundwater source of
WATER SOURCE  drinking water supplying a public water supply, through which contaminants are
PROTECTION    reasonably likely to move toward and reach such groundwater source.
ZONE:
              Zoning and non-zoning controls which include, but are not limited to, the
LAND          following: zoning and subdivision ordinances, site plan reviews, design and
MANAGEMENT    operating standards, source prohibitions, purchase of property and development
STRATEGIES:   rights, public education programs, ground-water monitoring, household hazardous
              waste collection programs, water conservation programs, memoranda of
              understanding, written contracts and agreements, and so forth.
PERMITTED     A land use, activity or practice that does not create a risk of contamination
USE:          or a relatively low risk of contamination in the specified drinking water
              source protection zone.
              Point source discharges of contaminants to ground water or potential discharges
              of the liquid forms of "extremely hazardous substances" which are stored in
              containers in excess of "applicable threshold planning quantities" as specified
              in SARA Title III. Examples of possible pollution sources include, but are not
              limited to, the following: storage facilities that store the liquid forms of
              extremely hazardous substances, septic tanks, drain fields, class V underground
              injection wells, landfills, open dumps, landfilling of sludge and septage,
              manure piles, salt piles, pit privies, and animal feeding operations with more
              than ten animal units.
              The following definitions are part of R309-600 and clarify the definition of
              pollution source:
              1.   ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS: A lot or facility where the following
              conditions are met: animals have been or will be stabled or confined and fed or
POLLUTION     maintained for a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month
SOURCE:       period, and crops, vegetation forage growth, or post-harvest residues are not
              sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
              Two (2) or more animal feeding operations under common ownership are considered
              to be a single feeding operation if they adjoin each other, if they use a
              common area, or if they use a common system for the disposal of wastes.
              2.   ANIMAL UNIT: A unit of measurement for any animal feeding operation
              calculated by adding the following numbers; the number of slaughter and feeder
              cattle multiplied by 1.0, plus the number of mature dairy cattle multiplied by
              1.4, plus the number of swine weighing over fifty five (55) pounds multiplied
              by 0.4, plus the number of sheep multiplied by 0.1, plus the number of horses
              multiplied by 2.0.
              3.   EXTREMELY HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE: Those substances which are identified in
              the Sec. 302 (EHS) column of the "Title III List of Lists - Consolidated List
              of Chemicals Subject to Reporting under SARA Title III," (EPA 560/4-91-011).
POTENTIAL     Any facility or site which employs an activity or procedure which may
CONTAMINATION potentially contaminate ground water. A pollution source is also a potential
SOURCE:       contamination source.
PROHIBITED    A land use, activity or practice that creates a substantial risk of
USES:         contamination in the specified drinking water source protection zone. Such uses
              are not permitted.
REGULATORY    Any governmental agency with jurisdiction over hazardous waste as defined
AGENCY:       herein.
SANITARY      A disposal site where solid waste, including putrescible wastes, or hazardous
LANDFILL:     wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover thereon.
SEPTIC TANK/  A system which is comprised of a septic tank and a drain field which accepts
DRAIN FIELD   domestic wastewater from buildings or facilities for subsurface treatment and
SYSTEM:       disposal. By their design, septic tank/drain field system discharges cannot be
              controlled with design standards.
              Any potable water system that is subject to the rules of the Utah department of
WATER SYSTEM, environmental quality, which is any potable (culinary) water system that is to
PUBLIC:       serve fifteen (15) lots or more, or at least an average of twenty five (25)
              individuals at least sixty (60) days a year.
WELLHEAD:     The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals, valves and
              other attachments. (Ord. 2020-08, 9-15-2020)
 
4-5-4: GUIDELINES:
Plan Submitted To State: It shall be the responsibility of the public drinking
water systems of the county to submit a drinking water source protection plan
to the state division of drinking water pursuant to state administrative rule.
Once the division of drinking water has accepted said plan, the public drinking
water system or the division of drinking water shall provide the county with
electronic data and maps showing the drinking water source protection zones
that have been established. (Ord. 2020-08, 9-15-2020)
4-5-5: PROTECTION ZONES ESTABLISHED:
There are hereby established use districts to be known as drinking water source
protections zones as identified and described as follows:
   A.   Zone 1 is the area within a one hundred foot (100') radius from a
wellhead or spring source.
   B.   Zone 2 is the area within a two hundred fifty (250) day groundwater
time of travel distance to a wellhead or spring source, the boundary of the
aquifer(s) which supplies water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater
divide, whichever is closer.
   C.   Zone 3 (waiver criteria zone) is the area within three (3) year ground
water time of travel to the wellhead or margin of the collection area, the
boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water to the ground water source, or
the ground water divide, whichever is closer.
   D.   Zone 4 is the area within a fifteen (15) year ground water time of
travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water to
the ground water source, or the ground water divide, whichever is closer. (Ord.
2020-08, 9-15-2020)
4-5-6: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Any land use permitted within existing agricultural, residential and
commercial districts, so long as the uses conform to the rules and regulations
of the regulatory agencies and this chapter. Applicable rules include, but are
not limited to, the Utah Administrative Rule R-309-600 and rules adopted by the
culinary water authority and the Environmental Protection Agency.
   B.   Any other open land use where any building located on the property is
incidental and accessory to the primary open land use.
   C.   Any land use established before the effective date hereof, and uses
incidental and accessory to such use, may be continued in the same manner
thereafter; provided, that such use is not determined by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be a nuisance or health hazard under the provisions of federal,
state and/or local laws or regulations. (Ord. 2020-08, 9-15-2020)
4-5-7: PROHIBITED USES:
   A.   The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited
within drinking water sources protection zones, whether or not such use or
condition may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted
under section 4-5-6 of this chapter.
      1.   Zone One: The location of any pollution source/potential
contamination source as defined herein.
      2.   Zone Two: The location of a pollution source unless its contaminated
source can be controlled through land management strategies.
      3.   Zones Three And Four: The location of a potential contamination
source unless it can be controlled through land management strategies. (Ord.
2020-08, 9-15-2020)
4-5-8: DISPUTE PROCEDURE:
If a party disagrees with the boundaries of a drinking water source protection
zone, such boundaries may be disputed according to the following procedure:
   A.   Applicant submits written comments to the public drinking water system
stating the reasons that the protection zone boundaries are being disputed.
   B.   If the public drinking water system concurs, it may authorize a new
hydrologic investigation at the expense of the one disputing the delineations,
or elect to conduct a new hydro geologic investigation at its own expense, or
by negotiating a sharing of expenses, if it appears that the boundary was
established without considering geologic/hydro geologic data.
   C.   If the public drinking water system declines to authorize a new hydro
geologic investigation, the applicant may appeal this determination to the
county commissioners. In the event that the county authorizes a new
investigation, it shall be conducted at the expense of the applicant or the
negotiated expense of the parties.
   D.   Upon completion, the new hydro geologic investigation shall be
submitted to the state division of drinking water for review. (Ord. 2020-08, 9-
15-2020)
4-5-9: ADMINISTRATION:
The policies and procedures for administration of any source protection zone
established under this chapter, including without limitation those applicable
to nonconforming uses, exception, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same
as provided in the existing zoning ordinance for Beaver County as the same is
presently enacted or may from time to time be amended. (Ord. 2020-08, 9-15-
2020)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT, CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Fire Code
5-1-2: Special Service Districts
5-1-3: Fire District Chiefs
5-1-4: General Regulations, Powers And Authority
5-1-5: Burning Regulations
5-1-1: FIRE CODE:
   A.   Adoption Of Fire Code: The state fire code adopted by the legislature
in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 15A-1-403, as amended, is hereby
adopted as the fire code for the county.
   B.   Successor Editions: Successor editions of the state fire code adopted
by the legislature and amendments adopted in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated section 15A-1-403, as amended, are hereby adopted and shall be
applied as the state fire code for the county. (Ord. 2014-03, 2-3-2014)
5-1-2: SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICTS:
   A.   Created: There are presently two (2) Beaver County special service
districts, which have been created to handle fire department duties throughout
the county, which districts shall act as the fire department for all
unincorporated areas of the county.
   B.   Areas: The area covered by Beaver County special service district no. 1
shall be all of the unincorporated areas for the county, including the area
that is a part of Beaver County special service no. 1; and the area covered by
Beaver County special service district no. 2 shall be all of the unincorporated
areas of the county included in the area of Beaver County special service
district no. 2. (2004 Code § 3-511)
5-1-3: FIRE DISTRICT CHIEFS:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created the position of chief of each fire
district. The chief of each fire district shall be the executive officer
elected by the administrative control board of each fire district, and the
powers and duties of the chief enumerated herein are delegated to the officers
of the fire district in the same manner as the powers of the fire district are
delegated to such officers. (2004 Code § 3-521)
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The chief shall have responsibility for the general supervision of
the department.
      2.   During a fire, the chief shall have full authority to take all
measures as he shall deem necessary, subject to state law, to control and
extinguish the fire and for that purpose he is hereby made a special peace
officer.
      3.   The chief shall at least quarterly report to the county the
condition of the fire equipment, the number of fires and their causes and
estimated loss therefrom, together with such other information as the county
commission may request or as he shall deem appropriate.
      4.   The chief shall strictly enforce all of the provisions of the
ordinances of the county and the state relating to the protection against and
prevention of fire.
      5.   The chief shall see that the equipment of the department is in good
repair and order and ready for use.
      6.   The chief, subject to the approval of the county commission and the
administrative control board of each respective special service district, shall
establish rules and regulations for the operation of the department.
      7.   The chief may delegate his duties to any person employed by the
department or acting as an officer of the department, but such delegation shall
not relieve the chief of his responsibility for the performance thereof.
      8.   The chief shall cause all fires to be promptly investigated to
determine the cause of the fire and report the cause of the fire, the time
originated and such other information as may be relevant to prevent other
fires. (2004 Code § 3-522)
5-1-4: GENERAL REGULATIONS, POWERS AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Emergency Vehicles: Firetrucks are hereby designated authorized
emergency vehicles. (2004 Code § 3-531)
   B.   Removal Of Obstructions At Fire: The officer in charge of any fire may
order the removal of any fence, building or structure, or that any utility be
closed, cut or removed when deemed necessary to control, extinguish or prevent
the spread of fire. (2004 Code § 3-532)
   C.   Control Of Persons: All persons present at a fire shall obey the orders
of any firefighter. (2004 Code § 3-533)
   D.   Unlawful Interference With Officers, Apparatus: Any person who shall
wilfully hinder any officer or firefighter in the discharge of his duty at a
fire, or in any manner, injure, deface or destroy any engine, hose or other
fire apparatus belonging to the fire district, or who shall interfere with any
fire company or person, or who shall wilfully break or injure any water pipe or
interfere with the water or its source of supply, shall be deemed guilty of a
class B misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2004 Code § 5-535; amd. 2015 Code)
   E.   Investigation After Fire Report: The chief, or such other person as he
shall designate, shall, after extinguishing a fire, make a prompt and thorough
investigation of the cause of the fire, the time the fire began, the amount of
loss and insurance, a description of the affected buildings and premises, and
shall secure all other useful information available, and record the same in a
record book kept for the purpose in the office of the department and shall
report the same to the county commission at such time as it may direct. (2004
Code § 3-536)
   F.   Right To Enter And Inspect Premises: The fire chief, or such other
person as he shall designate, upon presentation of proper credentials, shall
have the right to enter upon any premises at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of making inspections. (2004 Code § 3-537)
   G.   Persons Present At Fires Subject To Orders: Every person twenty one
(21) years or older present at a fire shall be subject to the order of the
officer in command and shall render assistance in the manner directed by the
officer in command. (2004 Code § 3-538)
   H.   False Alarms: It shall be unlawful for any person to turn in or report
to the fire department a false alarm or report of a fire, or to tamper or
remove any part of any fire alarm system. (2004 Code § 3-539)
5-1-5: BURNING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Administrative Code Adopted: The Utah administrative code, rule R307-
202, sections R307-202-1 through R307-202-3, are applicable in the
unincorporated areas of the county, and sections R307-202-4 through R307-202-
8 are applicable in the incorporated areas of the county, and sections R307-
202-4 through R307-202-8 are hereby declared applicable to residents of the
unincorporated areas of the county.
   B.   Restrictions: The exclusions in section R307-202-3 relating to
horticultural or agricultural operations are affirmed with the added
requirement that a permit must be obtained and no permit will be granted on
days when the clearing index is below five hundred (500).
   C.   Further Requirements: After obtaining a permit, each permit holder is
required to contact the sheriff's office through dispatch at (435)438-2862 or
(435)387-2758 on the day of the burn to verify the clearing index and to
provide a callback number prior to the burn. (Ord. 2014-07, 4-21-2014)
   D.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2014-07, 4-21-2014; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Intent
5-2-2: Animal Control Administrator
5-2-3: Dog Licensing And Regulations
5-2-4: Kennels
5-2-5: Dog Breeders
5-2-6: Restraint Of Dogs Required
5-2-7: Impoundment Of Dogs
5-2-8: Regulation Of Dogs
5-2-9: Euthanasia Of Injured, Diseased Or Vicious Animals
5-2-10: Vicious Or Out Of Control Animals
5-2-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter to provide uniform animal control regulations,
administration and enforcement within each of the entities that is a party to
the county interlocal cooperation agreement for animal control. (2004 Code § 8-
101)
5-2-2: ANIMAL CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Designated: The county sheriff shall be the animal control
administrator. (2004 Code § 8-201)
   B.   Responsibilities: The animal control administrator shall be responsible
for the following functions:
      1.   All financial matters related to animal control.
      2.   The enforcement of all provisions of this chapter.
      3.   The establishment of animal control policies and procedures.
      4.   The development and distribution to the parties of the interlocal
cooperation agreement for animal control of an annual animal control report.
(2004 Code § 8-202)
5-2-3: DOG LICENSING AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
indicates, the following words shall mean:
ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY: The buildings and premises operated by Beaver County
for the purposes of confining, caring for or disposing of animals pursuant to
this chapter.
AT LARGE: Any dog owned, kept or maintained by such person to be on any public
property or private property not owned or controlled by such person within any
municipality, without being confined or restrained on a leash at all times.
AT LARGE OUTSIDE OF MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES: Any dog owned, kept or maintained by
such person to be on any public property or private property not owned or
controlled by such person, without being under the control of such person. A
dog shall be deemed under the control of said owner or family member if it is
within immediate call, or if it is within the immediate view and within
distance of call, if it is on a leash, cord or chain, or if it is within direct
command of the owner or immediate family member.
DOG: Any male or female dog of any age.
NEIGHBOR: Any person residing within one thousand feet (1,000') or within two
(2) blocks of the offending animal or animals.
NOISE DISTURBANCE: Any persistent or continuing barking and/or howling that
offends or irritates a neighbor.
OWNER: Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping
or harboring a dog.
UNLICENSED DOG: A dog that is not licensed for the current year, or a dog that
does not have a current license tag attached.
VICIOUS DOG: A dog that chases, harasses or shows aggression toward any person
or animal, or that tries to bite or has bitten a person or animal without
provocation. (2004 Code § 8-401)
   B.   Rabies Vaccination And Dog License Required; Fine: It shall be unlawful
for any person to own, keep, harbor, maintain or have in their possession any
dog, six (6) months old or older, unless such dog has received an approved
vaccination for rabies and is licensed in the manner provided in this section.
There shall be a fine for no current rabies vaccination and for no current dog
license on each dog in such amount as established by the board of county
commissioners. (2004 Code § 8-402; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Approved Rabies Vaccination: The vaccination of a dog shall be
accomplished by an inoculation with antirabies vaccine, having an effective
immunity of one year on the first shot and at least two (2) years thereafter,
and administered under the direction of a public health officer of the county,
or a public health officer of the state, or by a licensed veterinarian under
the direction of such public health officer. The vaccine used shall be approved
by such public health officer and the Veterinarian Association. (2004 Code § 8-
403)
   D.   Application For Annual Dog License: Application for an annual dog
license may be made from October 1 preceding the licensing year, to the county
animal control officer or such other persons as may be authorized to receive
application by the animal control administrator. The application shall include:
      1.   Name, address and telephone numbers of the owner.
      2.   Address where the dog is normally kept.
      3.   Proof of dog's gender.
      4.   Proof, if any, the dog has been neutered or spayed.
      5.   Proof that dog has received current rabies vaccination. (2004 Code §
8-404)
   E.   Licensing, Rabies Vaccination For Nonresidents: The licensing provision
of this section shall not apply to dogs kept under restraint within the county
for less than fifteen (15) days per calendar year by nonresidents of the
county. Owners will provide proof that dog has received current rabies
vaccination if animal control requests it. (2004 Code § 8-406)
   F.   Annual Dog License Fees: The annual fees for dog licensing are in such
amounts as established by the county commissioners. (Ord. 2010-06, 8-2-2010;
amd. 2015 Code)
   G.   Due Date For License Fees; Replacement Tags: Annual dog licensing fees
are due and payable on January 1 each year and shall be delinquent after
February 14 of each year. In case a tag after issuance is lost or destroyed, a
replacement tag will be issued at a cost in such amount as established by the
board of county commissioners. (2004 Code § 8-408; amd. 2015 Code)
   H.   Discount For Timely Licensing: Each annual dog license issued on or
before January 15 of each year shall receive a discount in such amount as
established by the board of county commissioners from the annual fee schedule.
(2004 Code § 8-409; amd. 2015 Code)
   I.   Delinquent Licensing Fee Penalty: A penalty fee in such amount as
established by resolution of the board of county commissioners shall be
assessed on all delinquent annual dog license fees. (Ord. 2010-06, 8-2-2010;
amd. 2015 Code)
   J.   Fee For Partial Year Dog License: Any person acquiring a dog or owning
a dog that attains licensing age of six (6) months old after June 30 and before
October 1 of any year shall receive an annual licensing fee discount of fifty
percent (50%) on the license obtained for the remainder of that year. (2004
Code § 8-411)
   K.   Fee Exemption; Rabies Vaccination Required: Any person owning, keeping
or maintaining any dog utilized to assist a visually and/or physically impaired
person shall be exempt from any licensing fees. Acquisition of a license and
rabies vaccination is still required, any fee exemption notwithstanding. (2004
Code § 8-412; amd. 2015 Code)
   L.   Issuance Of License: The county animal control officer or such other
persons that may be authorized to issue dog licenses by the animal control
administrator may issue a dog license upon receipt of the fees and information
required herein. (2004 Code § 8-413)
   M.   Collar And Tags Required: Any person owning, keeping or maintaining any
licensed dog shall provide said dog with a suitable collar to which a metallic
rabies tag is attached thereto, having a number corresponding with the rabies
certificate issued to such dog, and to which is attached a metallic dog license
tag corresponding with the current year and number on the dog license issued to
such dog. The fine for noncompliance shall be in such amount as established by
the board of county commissioners for each dog for each day of noncompliance.
(2004 Code § 8-414; amd. 2015 Code)
   N.   Three Year Dog License: A three (3) year dog license may be purchased
at a rate established by the Beaver County commission, subject to the
vaccination requirements contained within this section. (Ord. 2015-18, 12-1-
2015)
5-2-4: KENNELS:
   A.   Kennel Defined; License Required: Any person owning, keeping, harboring
or maintaining three (3) or more dogs, over the age of six (6) months, on any
property where the applicable zoning regulations allow for a kennel, may obtain
an annual dog kennel license instead of individually licensing each dog. (2004
Code § 8-450)
   B.   Application For Kennel License: Application for annual dog kennel
license shall be made on or before January 1 to the county animal control
officer or such other persons as may be authorized to receive applications by
the animal control administrator. (2004 Code § 8-451)
   C.   Information Required: The following information shall be provided in
the form required by the animal control administrator:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the owner.
      2.   Address where the dog kennel is located.
      3.   The maximum number of dogs owned, kept, harbored or maintained on
the property.
      4.   Evidence that each dog licensed by the kennel license has rabies
vaccination as required herein.
      5.   Evidence that any zoning requirements or permits have been approved
or obtained from the appropriate planning commission. (2004 Code § 8-452)
   D.   Fee For License: The annual fee for a dog kennel license is in such
amount as established by the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 2010-06, 8-2-
2010; amd. 2015 Code)
   E.   Due Date For Kennel License Fee: Annual dog kennel licensing fees are
due and payable on January 1 each year and shall be delinquent after February
14 of each year. (2004 Code § 8-454)
   F.   Discount For Timely Kennel Licensing: Each annual dog kennel license
issued on or before January 15 of each year shall receive a discount in such
amount as established by the board of county commissioners from the annual fee
schedule. (2004 Code § 8-455; amd. 2015 Code)
   G.   Delinquent Kennel License Fee Penalty: A penalty fee in such amount as
established by the board of county commissioners per dog shall be assessed on
all delinquent annual dog kennel license fees. (2004 Code § 8-456; amd. 2015
Code)
   H.   Issuance Of Kennel License: The county animal control officer or such
other persons that may be authorized to issue dog kennel licenses by the animal
control administrator may issue a dog kennel license upon receipt of the fees
and information required herein. (2004 Code § 8-457)
   I.   Identification Of Kennel Maintained Dogs: The requirements of
subsection 5-2-3M of this chapter concerning collars and license tags do not
apply to kennel owners; however, each kennel licensed dog shall be identifiable
by a means acceptable to and approved by the animal control administrator.
(2004 Code § 8-458)
5-2-5: DOG BREEDERS:
   A.   Defined: "Dog breeder" means any person or entity within the county
who, having the care of or responsibility for one or more female dogs, permits
the whelping of more than one litter of dogs in a twelve (12) month period. A
veterinarian providing services within a veterinarian-client/patient
relationship, and has no ownership interest in the animals, is not included in
this definition.
   B.   License Required; Fee; Penalty: A dog breeder's license is required in
order to breed dogs for profit within the county. The nonrefundable fee for a
breeder's license shall be in such amount as established by the board of county
commissioners. Failure to obtain a breeder's license prior to breeding a dog
for profit shall be a class C misdemeanor, and subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Application For License: An applicant for a dog breeder's license shall
submit an application on a form prescribed by the animal control administrator,
together with an annual nonrefundable license fee as specified in subsection B
of this section.
   D.   Issuance Of License: The animal control officer, or such persons that
may be authorized by the animal control administrator to issue dog licenses,
may issue a dog breeder's license upon receipt of the fees and information
required herein.
   E.   Prohibited Applicants: A license will not be issued to an applicant who
has pled no contest or has found to have violated any federal, state, or local
laws or regulations pertaining to animal cruelty within five (5) years of the
date of application.
   F.   Renewal: A license to operate as a dog breeder shall be renewed by
filing with the animal control administrator a renewal application and a
license fee.
   G.   Nontransferable License: A license to operate as a dog breeder is not
transferable to another person or entity.
   H.   Shelter Requirements: All dogs shall be provided sufficient shelter,
including protection from the elements, constant and unfettered access to an
enclosure. Stacking of one animal's enclosure above or below another animal's
enclosure shall be permitted when the feces and/or urine of the upper animal is
kept from encroaching in or on the lower animal's enclosure. The manner in
which this is achieved is left up to the individual breeder based on their
unique requirements.
   I.   Records Maintained By Licensee: A licensee shall maintain accurate
records for each dog sold within the county to ensure compliance of licensing
requirements, including the date the dog leaves the facility; the person to
whom each dog was transferred to, including the name, address and telephone
number of the person; and a description of each dog, including its breed,
color, sex and age.
   J.   Investigation For Violations: The animal control administrator shall
have the authority to investigate reported violations of this section and
regulations, including failure to obtain a license as a dog breeder, as
required under this section. (Ord. 2013-05, 12-17-2013; amd. 2015 Code)
5-2-6: RESTRAINT OF DOGS REQUIRED:
   A.   Within Municipal Boundaries:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any dog owned, kept or
maintained by such person to be on any public property or private property not
owned or controlled by such person within any municipality to be at large,
without being restrained and held by a leash at all times. The owner of any dog
observed running at large by the animal control officer or such other persons
that may be authorized by the animal control administrator, may be cited.
      2.   The first offense within any twelve (12) month period may be waived
if the dog is current on its rabies shot and licensed for the current year, or
if the dog is a puppy under six (6) months old.
      3.   For a second or third offense within any twelve (12) month period,
the fine shall be in such amount as established by the board of county
commissioners.
      4.   Any dog owner cited four (4) times during any twelve (12) month
period will be fined in such amount as established by the board of county
commissioners, and this fine will be doubled for each consecutive offense
thereafter.
   B.   Outside Municipal Boundaries:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any dog owned, kept or
maintained by such person to be at large on any public property or private
property not owned or controlled by such person, within the limits of the
county and outside the boundaries of any municipality. All dogs must be
confined or restrained on property owned or controlled by its owner between the
hours of sundown and sunrise. The owner of any dog observed running at large by
the animal control officer or such other persons that may be authorized by the
animal control administrator, may be cited.
      2.   The first offense within any twelve (12) month period may be waived
if the dog is current on its rabies shot and licensed for the current year, or
if the dog is a puppy under six (6) months old.
      3.   For a second or third offense within any twelve (12) month period,
the fine shall be in such amount as established by the board of county
commissioners.
      4.   Any dog owner cited four (4) times during any twelve (12) month
period will be fined in such amount as established by the board of county
commissioners, and this fine will be doubled for each consecutive offense
thereafter. (Ord. 2015-14, 9-28-2015)
5-2-7: IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS:
   A.   Unrestrained Dogs: The animal control officer or such other persons
that may be authorized by the animal control administrator, shall catch and
impound any dog not restrained as herein required.
   B.   Unlicensed Dogs: The animal control officer or such other persons that
may be authorized by the animal control administrator, shall have the authority
to seize and impound any unlicensed dog from any public or private property.
   C.   Record Of Impounded Dogs: The animal control officer or such other
persons that may be authorized by the animal control administrator, shall keep
a record of each dog impounded in the animal control facility. The record kept
will include at least the following:
      1.   The date of impoundment.
      2.   A description of the dog and any rabies and license number for the
dog.
      3.   The date and manner of disposal.
      4.   If reclaimed or adopted, the name, address and phone number of the
person reclaiming or adopting the dog.
      5.   The amount of all fees received or collected from the impoundment.
   D.   Impound Fees; Vicious Dogs:
      1.   The impoundment fee for a dog impounded for the first time within
any twelve (12) month period may be waived if the dog is current on its rabies
shot and licensed for the current year, or if the dog is a puppy under six (6)
months old. However, a maintenance fee in such amount as established by the
board of county commissioners per day will be assessed for every day that the
dog is impounded. The fine for any vicious dog impounded for the first time
within any twelve (12) month period shall be in such amount as established by
the board of county commissioners, plus a maintenance fee in such amount as
established by the board of county commissioners per day for every day that the
dog is impounded.
      2.   On the second offense, the impoundment fee will be in such amount as
established by the board of county commissioners, plus a maintenance fee in
such amount as established by the board of county commissioners per day for
every day that the dog is impounded. For any vicious dog impounded for the
second time within any twelve (12) month period, the fine shall be in such
amount as established by the board of county commissioners, plus a maintenance
fee in such amount as established by the board of county commissioners per day
for every day that the dog is impounded.
      3.   The impoundment fee for a dog impounded for the third time within
any twelve (12) month period shall be in such amount as established by the
board of county commissioners, plus a maintenance fee in such amount as
established by the board of county commissioners per day for every day that the
dog is impounded. Vicious dogs are subject to the provisions of section
5-2-10 of this chapter.
      4.   Any dog impounded four (4) times during any twelve (12) month
period, the owner will be fined in such amount as established by the board of
county commissioners, and this fine will be doubled for each consecutive
offense thereafter.
   E.   Reclamation Of Impounded Dogs: Any impounded dog must be reclaimed by
the owner within five (5) working days of impoundment and present payment of
the impoundment fee and any other applicable fees to the animal control officer
or such other persons that may be authorized by the animal control
administrator.
   F.   Unreclaimed Impounded Dogs: Any dog not reclaimed within five (5)
working days of impoundment may be adopted following the procedures established
by the animal control administrator or destroyed in a humane manner.
   G.   Quarantine:
      1.   Any dog or other animal species not current on its rabies
vaccination but owned by a person, known to have bitten any person or another
animal so as to cause an abrasion of the skin, shall be placed in quarantine
for observation by the animal control officer for a period of ten (10) days and
shall not be killed or released until the observation period concludes that the
animal shows no sign of rabies. The owner of the said animal is required to pay
a fee in such amount as established by the board of county commissioners per
day for every day that the animal is quarantined.
      2.   Any dog or other animal species that is wild and is known to have
bitten any person or another animal so as to cause an abrasion of the skin,
shall immediately be euthanized and sent to the state health department for
testing of rabies. (Ord. 2015-14, 9-28-2015)
5-2-8: REGULATION OF DOGS:
   A.   Female Dog In Heat: Any person owning, keeping, harboring, maintaining
or having in their possession any female dog in heat shall, in addition to
restraining such dog, keep such dog constantly confined in a secure enclosure
so as to prevent it from creating a public nuisance or attracting by scent or
coming in contact with other dogs, except for planned breeding under the
supervision of the owner.
   B.   Barking Dogs:
      1.   Any person owning, keeping, harboring, maintaining or having in
their possession any dog or dogs which by frequent barking and/or howling
create a noise disturbance shall, upon the complaint of two (2) or more
neighbors, or a neighbor and the animal control officer or deputy sheriff
responding to the complaint of the neighbor, receive one verbal warning from
the responding officer that their dog/dogs are disturbing the surrounding
neighbors, however if it is established based upon the evidence gathered by the
animal control officer that the animal's owner has already received two (2) or
more requests by adjoining landowners to stop the dog from making a noise
disturbance in which case the animal control officer shall have discretion to
issue a citation.
      2.   On the second barking dog complaint and subsequent complaints
received thereafter concerning the same address and same dog/dogs, the owner
will be cited with a class B misdemeanor, and the fine shall be in such amount
as established by the board of county commissioners per dog each time the owner
is cited. (Ord. 2015-14, 9-28-2015)
5-2-9: EUTHANASIA OF INJURED, DISEASED OR VICIOUS ANIMALS:
When exigent circumstances exist, an unidentified or unclaimed stray animal may
be humanely destroyed prior to completion of the five (5) working day minimum
holding period to prevent unnecessary suffering due to serious injury or
disease, and the animal control officer, or such other persons that may be
authorized by the animal control administrator, may humanely destroy a vicious
animal, or any wild or domestic animal showing overt signs of being rabid
without waiting any prescribed waiting period, or obtaining a court order. The
animal control officer, or other authorized person, shall document and preserve
evidence of the injury or disease. (Ord. 2013-05, 12-17-2013; amd. 2015 Code)
5-2-10: VICIOUS OR OUT OF CONTROL ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, maintain or
have in their possession any vicious or out of control animal. In the event a
person is cited for owning, keeping, harboring, maintaining or having in their
possession a vicious or out of control animal, the animal involved in the
citation action will be impounded until the court has made a final ruling on
the case.
   B.   Upon the trial of any offense under this section, the court may, upon
conviction and in addition to the usual judgment of conviction, order the
humane destruction of the vicious or out of control animal or such other
disposition of the vicious or out of control animal that will protect the
residents of the county. (2004 Code § 8-302)
CHAPTER 3
CRIMES AND OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Discharge Of Firearms Within Grove Area
5-3-2: Discharge Of Firearms Within Six Hundred Feet Of Dwelling Or House
5-3-3: Minors Daytime Curfew
5-3-1: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS WITHIN GROVE AREA:
   A.   Definitions:
DWELLING: A structure used for lodging, including, but not limited to, homes,
cabins, lodges and condominiums, whether or not they are used as part time or
full time residences.
FIREARM: Pistols, revolvers, shotguns, rifles, bow and arrow and any device
that could be used as a weapon from which is expelled a projectile by any
force. (Ord. 88-03, 4-4-1988; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Prohibited Discharge: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
any kind of firearm, including a bow and arrow, within the following described
property known as the "Grove area" within the County:
Beginning at a point 2 rods East of the Southwest corner of Section 14,
Township 29 South, Range 7 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, (being where the
East line of the North Creek Road intersects with Highway U153), and running
thence North along the East line of the North Creek Road to a point where the
East line of the North Creek Road intersects with the North line of the South
half of the South half of said Section 14; thence East along said North line to
the East boundary of said Section 14; thence continuing East along the North
line of the South half of the South half of Section 13 to the East boundary of
Section 13; thence continuing East approximately 80 rods to the Northeast
corner of the Southwest quarter of the Southwest quarter of Section 18,
Township 29 South, Range 6 West, SLB&M; thence South approximately 80 rods to
the South boundary of said Section 18; thence West approximately 160 rods to
the Northwest corner of the Northeast quarter of the Northeast quarter of
Section 24, Township 29 South, Range 7 West, SLB&M; thence South approximately
160 rods to the East-West center line of said Section 24; thence West along
said center line to the West boundary of said Section 24; thence continuing
West along the East-West center line of Section 23; thence West 1560 feet;
thence North 443 feet; thence West 52 feet; thence North 452.5 feet to the
South line of the Beaver River; thence Southwesterly along the South line of
the Beaver River to the West line of the Northeast quarter of Section 23,
thence South to the Southwest corner of the Northeast quarter of Section 23;
thence West to a point 46 rods West of the center of said Section 23 (being the
West side of Holdaway Lane); thence North 80 rods; thence West approximately
114 rods to the West boundary of said Section 23; thence North to the Northwest
corner of said Section 23, (being the Southwest corner of Section 14); thence
East 2 rods to the place of beginning.
ALSO: LESS Beginning 1672 feet more or less South and 842.5 feet more or less
West of the Northeast corner of Section 23, thence South 365.78 feet thence
South 89°50' East 291.8 feet; thence North 66°01' East 196 feet; thence North
483.2 feet; thence South 83°31'30" West 436.2 feet, to the place of beginning.
(Containing 4.7 acres owned by Bryce Gale.)
   C.   Signage Required: Appropriate "No Shooting" signs shall be posted
around the boundaries of the above described no shooting area. (Ord. 88-03, 4-
4-1988)
   D.   Penalty: Violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be a
Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 88-03, 4-4-1988; amd. 2015 Code)
5-3-2: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS WITHIN SIX HUNDRED FEET OF DWELLING OR HOUSE:
   A.   Definitions:
DWELLING: A structure used for lodging, including, but not limited to, homes,
cabins, lodges and condominiums, whether or not they are used as part time or
full time residences.
FIREARM: Pistols, revolvers, shotguns, rifles, bow and arrow and any device
that could be used as a weapon from which is expelled a projectile by any
force.
   B.   Prohibited Discharge: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
any firearm within six hundred feet (600') of any dwelling or house within the
unincorporated areas of the County, unless the express permission of the person
in lawful possession of such dwelling or house is first had and obtained.
   C.   Penalty: Violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be a
Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 88-02, 4-4-1988; amd. 2015 Code)
5-3-3: MINORS DAYTIME CURFEW:
   A.   Minors Subject To Compulsory Or Alternative Compulsory Education -
Daytime: It is unlawful for any minor subject to compulsory or alternative
compulsory education to loiter or remain in any public place, any restricted
dwelling, or any unsupervised place within the unincorporated area of the
County during the normal school hours for the school said minor is required to
attend.
   B.   Parents, Guardians, And Teachers - Daytime: It is unlawful for any
parent, guardian, teacher, or other person having legal care and custody of any
minor subject to this chapter to permit or allow, whether willfully or by
exercise of insufficient control, any such minor to remain or loiter in any
public place or in any other restricted place, except as provided in this
chapter.
   C.   Defenses: It shall be a defense to a violation of this section that at
the time the minor was in violation of subsection A or B of this section, the
minor was:
      1.   A minor fourteen (14) years or older, emancipated by marriage.
      2.   Accompanied by the minor's parent, guardian, or other adult person
having care, custody, or supervision of said minor.
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel.
      4.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without detour or stop.
      5.   Acting in response to an emergency.
      6.   Going to, or returning from, a medical or dental appointment.
      7.   Permitted to leave the school campus for lunch or any school-
approved activity.
      8.   Attending, or without any detour or stop, was going to, or returning
from, a school-approved, recreational, or educational activity, supervised by
adults, and sponsored by the local school district, another school district, or
any civic, religious, or other government organization.
      9.   Going to, or returning directly from, a compulsory alternative
education program.
      10.   Going to, or returning directly from, the minor's place of school-
approved employment.
      11.   Granted an exemption for "home schooling" as prescribed by the
local Board of Education.
      12.   Otherwise granted an exemption to compulsory education by the local
Board of Education, under Utah Code section 53A-11-102, or any successor
provision.
   D.   Enforcement Procedures: Before taking any enforcement action under the
provisions of this section, a peace officer shall ask said minor's age and
reason for being in the public place or other restricted place. The peace
officer shall not take enforcement action under this section if the peace
officer has reasonable cause to believe that any defense under subsection C of
this section applies.
      1.   Upon any violation, the peace officer may take the minor into
temporary custody and/or issue a citation to the minor. If the peace officer
takes the minor into temporary custody, the peace officer, without unreasonable
delay, shall:
         a.   Transport the minor to the school from which the minor is absent,
releasing the minor to the principal or other designated school official; or
         b.   Release the minor to any individual who has been designated by
the local School Board to receive and return the minor to school; or
         c.   Transport and release the minor to a receiving center established
and designated by the local School Board.
      2.   If the minor refuses to return to school or go to the receiving
center, or the peace officer is unable to otherwise release the minor to the
appropriate school official or designated receiving center, the peace officer
may release the minor to the minor's parent or guardian, and shall notify the
appropriate school officials of the violation. If a parent or guardian cannot
be reached or is unable to accept custody, the minor shall be referred to the
Division of Child and Family Services, in the manner required under State law.
      3.   If cited, the minor shall appear, along with a parent or guardian,
in the applicable youth court or in Juvenile Court as directed in the citation.
      4.   A parent or guardian shall not be cited for a violation unless the
minor in question was previously cited for a violation of this section and the
parent or guardian was warned or advised by a peace officer, school official,
receiving center, or court official of such violation.
   E.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall be a Class C misdemeanor. In
Juvenile or Justice Court, a person adjudicated in violation of this section
shall receive a minimum fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for an initial
violation. A person adjudicated in subsequent violations of this section shall
receive a minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). The minimum fine is
not intended to be a limitation of any other penalty, probation, community
service requirement, or other fine which may be imposed by the applicable
court. (Ord. 2018-07, 8-7-2018)
CHAPTER 4
FENCING OF LIVESTOCK
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Lawful Fence Defined
5-4-3: Fencing Required In Closed Range Areas
5-4-4: Fencing Required In Open Range Areas
5-4-5: Division Of Costs To Construct
5-4-6: Civil Liability
5-4-7: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
CLOSED RANGE: Areas of Beaver County that are zoned agriculture.
OPEN RANGE: Areas of Beaver County that are zoned multiple use. (2004 Code §§
5-116, 5-117)
5-4-2: LAWFUL FENCE DEFINED:
A lawful fence shall be not less than four and one-half feet (41/2') high, and
shall be built of substantial material; moreover:
   A.   If made of wooden posts and poles, the poles must not be less than
three inches (3") in diameter at the small end, and the posts must be sound and
not less than two inches (2") in diameter at the small end, and be set in the
ground to a depth of not less than twenty inches (20") and not more than
sixteen and one-half feet (161/2') in distance apart.
   B.   If made of wooden posts and wire, the posts shall be set not over
sixteen and one-half feet (161/2') apart and must be sound and not less than
two inches (2") in diameter at the small end; and must consist of not less than
four (4) wires, from ten (10) to fourteen inches (14") apart. The wires shall
be made of class one barbed wire or class one field fence, or a combination of
both.
   C.   If made of metal posts and wire, the posts shall be set between eight
(8) and ten feet (10') apart and must be sound and have a weight of no less
than 1.33 pounds per foot length; and must consist of not less than four (4)
wires, from ten (10) to fourteen inches (14") apart. The wires shall be made of
class one barbed wire or class one field fence, or a combination of both. (2004
Code § 5-115)
5-4-3: FENCING REQUIRED IN CLOSED RANGE AREAS:
Every person, firm or corporation keeping any cattle, horse, donkey, mule,
sheep, goat, swine or other domestic livestock within closed range areas of the
county, including the boundary between closed range and open range, shall
confine such livestock on land that is surrounded by a lawful fence, as the
lawful fence is herein defined, or otherwise secure such livestock from
straying upon or remaining upon any private land of another, whether fenced or
not; provided, that this section shall not apply to livestock which is being
moved by its keeper upon a road, street or highway from one location to another
with sufficient herders to maintain reasonable control of such livestock. In
applying the term "reasonable control", it is understood that livestock when
being moved often become erratic and nervous and difficult to control, making
it virtually impossible to avoid all minor trespassing upon adjoining lands.
(2004 Code § 5-110)
5-4-4: FENCING REQUIRED IN OPEN RANGE AREAS:
In areas of the county herein defined as "open range", or bordering open range,
it is the responsibility of a property owner who desires to prevent any cattle,
horse, donkey, mule, sheep, goat, swine or other domestic livestock from
entering that property from the open range to construct and/or maintain
adequate fencing along the border of the open range. (2004 Code § 5-111)
5-4-5: DIVISION OF COSTS TO CONSTRUCT:
If the possessor of any private land shall desire to construct a fence which
will constitute a partition fence between his land and adjoining private land,
both lands being classified as closed range, the possessor of each of said
lands shall be liable to the other for one-half (1/2) of the cost of
constructing and maintaining such partition fence. If either party defaults to
pay his share, then the other party may construct and/or maintain the fence and
recover contribution from the defaulting party in an action brought for that
purpose. However, in the absence of an agreement between the parties to the
contrary, such obligation to share the cost does not apply to the extent that
the fence exceeds the minimum standard for a lawful fence as set forth herein.
In the case of privately owned land that adjoins a public road or other
publicly owned or controlled land, that public agency shall have no obligation
to contribute to the cost of fencing as herein provided. (2004 Code § 5-114)
5-4-6: CIVIL LIABILITY:
It is not the intention of this chapter to create any civil liability for
damages on the owners or possessors of trespassing livestock, it being the
intention that the consequences of a violation of section
5-4-3 of this chapter be only penal, as provided for in section
5-4-7 of this chapter; provided, that nothing herein is intended to prohibit
the court in a criminal action from ordering restitution to a victim as
required by law. (2004 Code § 5-113)
5-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of section
5-4-3 of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2004 Code § 5-112; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 5
NIGHT HUNTING
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Regulations
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
MOTOR VEHICLE: As defined in Utah Code Annotated section 41-6a-102.
NIGHT HUNTING: Thirty (30) minutes after official sunset until thirty (30)
minutes before official sunrise.
SPOTLIGHTING: Throwing or casting the rays of any spotlight, headlight, or
other artificial light on any highway or in any field, woodland, or forest
while having in possession a weapon by which protected wildlife may be killed.
(Ord. 2015-07, 6-1-2015)
5-5-2: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Limited Species: Species that may be taken while spotlighting are
limited to coyote, red fox, striped skunk, raccoon and jackrabbit.
   B.   Requirements: This chapter provides that:
      1.   Any artificial light used to spotlight coyote, red fox, striped
skunk, raccoon, or jackrabbit shall be carried by the hunter.
      2.   A motor vehicle headlight or light attached to or powered by a motor
vehicle may not be used to spotlight the animal.
      3.   While hunting with the use of an artificial light, the hunter may
not occupy or operate any motor vehicle.
   C.   Restrictions On Spotlighting Within Beaver County:
      1.   Before being able to spotlight, a person must first obtain a
spotlighting permit from the Beaver County clerk/auditor's office. There is a
twenty dollar ($20.00) fee for each permit, and the clerk/auditor's office may
restrict the number of permits issued. The cost of the permit is for the
administration and enforcement costs of the permit and will be retained by
Beaver County. Once a hunter has submitted an application and paid the
appropriate fee, a permit will be mailed to them at the mailing address
provided within about five (5) business days. Permits are valid for three
hundred sixty five (365) days from when they are obtained. Those individuals in
the field with a weapon are required to possess a spotlighting permit. Hunters
are required to have either a Utah hunter education certificate of completion
("blue card"), have a birth date of December 31, 1965, or earlier, or a current
Utah (small game) license in order to purchase a spotlighting permit. Hunters
under the age of sixteen (16) may receive a free permit if a legal guardian
purchases a permit at full price.
      2.   The spotlighting season in Beaver County shall be closed for August
1 through November 30.
      3.   Any weapon may be used for spotlighting, except that firearms may
not have a caliber larger than .24 and must not be capable of being fired
automatically. Expanding bullets must be used. Shotguns and archery tackle are
permitted.
      4.   Spotlighting is prohibited within six hundred feet (600') of a
residence, city, or town boundary.
      5.   Spotlighting is prohibited within Greenville, Adamsville, or
Manderfield.
      6.   Hunters are not allowed to trespass on private property while
spotlighting.
      7.   Spotlighting is prohibited on private property without written
permission from the property owner.
      8.   Spotlighting may not be done by a person under eighteen (18) years
of age unless accompanied by a person eighteen (18) years of age or more and
each person must possess a spotlighting permit.
      9.   Persons hunting with a spotlight must contact the sheriff's office
each day they are hunting and provide the following information:
         a.   Permit number;
         b.   Approximate location;
         c.   Approximation of time they will be hunting;
         d.   If hunting with more than one person, the permit number of each
hunter must be reported.
   D.   Exceptions: This chapter does not apply to:
      1.   A person or his agent who is lawfully acting to protect his crops or
domestic animals from predation by those animals; or
      2.   An animal damage control agent acting in his official capacity under
a memorandum of agreement with the division of wildlife resources.
   E.   Property Damages:
      1.   Hunters who are found to have caused damages will be solely
responsible for all damages to any and all property damaged.
      2.   If found to be criminal in nature, the hunters will be charged
criminally and will face prosecution according to the Utah state law.
   F.   Violation Of Chapter: Any person violating a provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
   G.   Violation Of Permit: Any person found in violation of their permit will
lose the privilege of holding a Beaver County spotlight permit for a minimum of
five (5) years.
      1.   Violations will be reported to state wildlife offices. (Ord. 2015-
07, 6-1-2015)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Through Truck Traffic On Designated Roads Prohibited
6-1-1: THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC ON DESIGNATED ROADS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions:
COUNTY ROADS: Comprises all public highways, roads, streets, easements and
rights of way within Beaver County that:
      1.   Are situated outside of incorporated municipalities and not
designated as state highways;
      2.   Have been designated by the county as county roads as a class B,
class C or class D variety as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 72-3-101
et seq.; or
      3.   Are located on property under the control of a federal agency and
constructed or maintained by the county under agreement with the appropriate
federal agency.
DESIGNATED: Visibly marked by sign or posting that a county road or portion of
a county road in which truck traffic is not permitted.
THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC: Travel by larger varieties of motor vehicles, including,
but not specifically limited to, tractor trailer trucks, diesel trucks,
construction vehicles and other large sized motor vehicles requiring a
commercial driver's license.
   B.   Restriction On Through Truck Traffic: Through truck traffic shall not
be permitted on any designated county roads or designated portions of county
roads.
   C.   Designation; Signage Required: The county commission shall have
authority, by resolution, to designate such county roads or portions of county
roads which shall be off limits to through truck traffic. All such designated
areas of restriction shall be marked by visible sign or posting. (Ord. 2004-10,
8-2-2004, eff. 8-18-2004)
   D.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall be a class C misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and may be enforced as such and in according with
applicable law by the county sheriff and his deputies. (Ord. 2004-10, 8-2-2004,
eff. 8-18-2004; amd. 2015 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Permit Required
7-1-2: Cash Deposit Or Performance Bond
7-1-3: Issuance Of Permit; Fees
7-1-4: Work Performed
7-1-5: Restoration By County; Cost Recovery
7-1-6: Appeal
7-1-7: Penalty
7-1-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, including public and
private utilities, to dig or cut into any county road, or the right of way
therefor, or to excavate or remove from any road or right of way any growing
plant life, soil or other material, whether for the laying of pipelines,
telephone lines, electric power lines, the construction of cattle guards or
fences or otherwise, without first obtaining a permit from the county road
supervisor or such other person or department as the board of county
commissioners may hereafter designate by resolution. (2004 Code § 4-110)
7-1-2: CASH DEPOSIT OR PERFORMANCE BOND:
Upon receipt of an application for a permit, the county road supervisor or his
designee shall examine into the work or activity which the applicant desires to
perform and will determine whether or not any damage will likely be done to the
road or right of way by the work or activity. If he determines that such damage
might occur, he will fix an amount of cost that in his opinion the county would
incur in repairing the damage and restoring the premises to the condition that
it was prior to the work or activity if not done by the holder of the permit
and will require, as a prerequisite to the issuance of the permit, that the
applicant furnish a deposit in cash or performance bond in the amount so fixed.
All such cash and bonds will be deposited by the county road supervisor or his
designee with the county clerk for safekeeping and will not be released to the
permit holder until the county road supervisor or his designee has certified
that the road and/or right of way has been restored to the condition that it
was prior to the work or activity by the permit holder. If the road or right of
way is not so restored by the permit holder and the county is required to incur
cost to complete such restoration, then the county may resort to such cash
deposit or bond, upon notice to the permit holder and the bond surety and
hearing, to reimburse the county for cost so incurred by the county. (2004 Code
§ 4-111)
7-1-3: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; FEES:
The permit, when issued, shall specify the work and/or activity authorized and
the name of the person, firm or corporation authorized to perform the work or
activity and shall state a time when the work or activity must be completed.
This permit shall not be transferable. The board of county commissioners may by
resolution prescribe a fee for the issuance of permits to defer the cost of
examining into the applications for permits and the time and effort of
determining that the work or activity has been completed and the premises
restored and such other duties as may be required to perform pursuant to this
chapter. (2004 Code § 4-112)
7-1-4: WORK PERFORMED:
The work or activity covered by the permit shall be performed in accordance
with the direction given by the county road supervisor or his designee so as to
avoid all unnecessary inconvenience and hazard to the traveling public. (2004
Code § 4-115)
7-1-5: RESTORATION BY COUNTY; COST RECOVERY:
In the event that the cash deposit or bond required and furnished proves to be
insufficient to cover the cost of restoration of the premises to the condition
that it was prior to the commencement of the work or activity, or if for any
reason no cash deposit or bond is required, the permit holder shall
nevertheless fully restore the road or right of way to such original condition
and, if he fails to do so, the county may complete the restoration and recover
the cost thereof from the permit holder or any other person, firm or
corporation found to be liable. (2004 Code § 4-114)
7-1-6: APPEAL:
If any applicant for a permit or any holder of a permit shall be dissatisfied
with the amount fixed by the county road supervisor or his designee for the
cash deposit or bond, or any other decision of the county road supervisor or
his designee in the execution of his duties under this chapter, the applicant
or permit holder may appeal such decision to the board of county commissioners,
which shall hold a hearing on the dispute upon notice to the appellant and the
county road supervisor or his designee as soon as practicable, and the decision
of the board of county commissioners shall be final and not subject to judicial
review, it being understood that the performance of work and/or activities on
county roads as covered by this chapter is a privilege which may or may not be
granted, and not a right. (2004 Code § 4-113)
7-1-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation which violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, in addition to any civil liabilities that may accrue. (2004
Code § 4-116; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN PATHS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Intent
7-2-2: Rules And Regulations For Use
7-2-3: Penalty
7-2-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter to provide uniform rules and regulations for
the safe and proper use of any bicycle and pedestrian paths owned or controlled
by the county. (Ord. 2007-07, 8-6-2007)
7-2-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR USE:
   A.   Bicycle riders and pedestrians shall travel on the right side of the
path when passing a person traveling in the opposite direction.
   B.   No motor vehicles are allowed on the path, except as authorized by the
county.
   C.   No horses are allowed on the track, except to cross the track.
   D.   Bicycle riders shall yield to pedestrians and pass with caution.
   E.   Bicycle racing is not allowed.
   F.   Any person riding on wheeled equipment, such as skateboards, long
boards, roller skates or rollerblades, or other wheeled equipment, shall yield
to pedestrians and pass with caution.
   G.   The posted speed limit shall be observed. (Ord. 2007-07, 8-6-2007)
7-2-3: PENALTY:
It shall be a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to violate any of the rules or regulations
for use of the county bicycle and pedestrian path contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-07, 8-6-2007; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MINERSVILLE LAKE PARK
SECTION:
7-3-1: Applicability
7-3-2: Defined
7-3-3: Administration
7-3-4: Fees And Charges
7-3-5: Regulations
7-3-6: Penalty
7-3-1: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all persons who are present upon
Minersville Lake Park. (2004 Code § 3-712)
7-3-2: DEFINED:
"Minersville Lake Park" means the following tracts of real property located in
Beaver County, state of Utah, and described as follows:
The East 112 of the NorthEast 114 and the East 112 of the SouthWest 114 of the
NorthEast 114, Section 11, Township 30 South, Range 9 West; also the NorthWest
114 of the NorthWest 114, Section 12, Township 30 South, Range 9 West, SLBM
(about 140 acres).
The South 112 of the NorthWest 1/4 of the SouthWest 114 and the SouthWest 114
of the SouthWest 114, Section 1, Township 30 South, Range 9 West, SLBM (about
60 acres).
Including, but not limited to, all buildings, outbuildings, fixtures, boat
ramps, camping areas, picnic areas, firepits, barbecue grills, restrooms,
parking areas, booths, lawns, shrubbery, trees, flowers and other foliage,
paths, trails, sidewalks and any and all other areas of the above described
tract of real property. (2004 Code § 3-711)
7-3-3: ADMINISTRATION:
The Minersville Lake Park shall be administered by the county reservoir
recreation committee, which is hereby charged with the responsibility of making
recommendations to the county commission regarding the operation of the
Minersville Lake Park. Members of the committee shall serve subject to bylaws
enacted by the commission. (Ord. 2012-3, 4-2-2012)
7-3-4: FEES AND CHARGES:
It is appropriate, reasonable and lawful to collect fees for camping
privileges, day privileges and other services at Minersville Lake Park
recreation area and a specific schedule of fees and charges shall be adopted by
resolution of the governing body. (Ord. 2012-04, 7-2-2012)
7-3-5: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Activities Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person
to: 1) damage, deface or destroy any portion of Minersville Lake Park; 2) leave
or deposit litter, debris or refuse on any portion of Minersville Lake Park,
except in designated trash depositories; or 3) leave feces, urine, spit or
vomit on any portion of Minersville Lake Park without disposing of the same in
designated restroom facilities or trash depositories. (2004 Code § 3-713)
   B.   Watercraft: Watercraft may be offloaded at the designated off ramp at
the water's edge, but the vehicles must be moved out of the safety zone.
   C.   Vehicles: Vehicles must observe the safety zone. Speed limit is fifteen
(15) miles per hour.
   D.   ATVs: All-terrain vehicles are allowed, but they are under the same
restrictions as other vehicles. State laws apply. It is your responsibility to
know the state regulations where you play. Do not operate inside of the safety
zone.
   E.   Unlawful Deposits: No deposit of sewage and gray water. (Ord. 2012-04,
7-2-2012; amd. Ord. 2015-02, 2-2-2015; 2015 Code)
7-3-6: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be a class B misdemeanor, except the
failure to pay entry fees and charges shall be an infraction. Violations of
this chapter are subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2016-10, 7-18-2016)
CHAPTER 4
COUNTY FAIRGROUNDS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Applicability
7-4-2: Defined
7-4-3: Prohibited Activities
7-4-4: Penalty
7-4-1: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply year round to all persons who are
present upon the county fairgrounds, regardless of whether or not the Beaver
County Fair is actually in session. (2004 Code § 3-702)
7-4-2: DEFINED:
"Beaver County Fairgrounds" means the following tract of real property located
in Beaver County, state of Utah, and described as follows:
The West 112 of the NorthWest 114, Section 8, Township 30 South, Range 9 West,
SLBM.
Including, but not limited to, all buildings, outbuildings, fixtures, rodeo
grounds, arenas, grandstands, picnic areas, stables, parking areas, booths and
any and all other areas of the above described tract of real property. (2004
Code § 3-701)
7-4-3: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to: a) damage, deface or destroy any
portion of the county fairgrounds; b) deposit litter, debris or refuse on any
portion of the county fairgrounds, except in designated trash depositories; or
c) to leave feces, urine, spit or vomit on any portion of the county
fairgrounds without disposing of the same in designated restroom facilities.
(2004 Code § 3-703)
7-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2004 Code § 3-704; amd. 2015 Code)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE
SECTION:
8-1-1: State Construction Code Adopted
8-1-2: Successor Editions
8-1-3: Applicability
8-1-4: Conflict With Zoning Regulations
8-1-1: STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE ADOPTED:
The state construction code adopted by the legislature in accordance with Utah
Code Annotated section 15A-1-204, as amended, is hereby adopted as the
construction code for the county. (Ord. 2014-03, 2-3-2014)
8-1-2: SUCCESSOR EDITIONS:
Successor editions of the state construction code adopted by the legislature
and amendments adopted in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 15A-1-
204, as amended, are hereby adopted and shall be applied as the state
construction code for the county. (Ord. 2014-03, 2-3-2014)
8-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
Said state construction code shall apply to and govern all construction and
related matters covered by said code occurring in the unincorporated area of
the county. (Ord. 2014-03, 2-3-2014)
8-1-4: CONFLICT WITH ZONING REGULATIONS:
All provisions of the zoning ordinance of the county, which are in conflict
with the provisions of the state construction code are hereby repealed to the
extent of such conflict. (Ord. 2014-03, 2-3-2014)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Purpose
9-1-3: Interpretation
9-1-4: Conflict
9-1-5: Effect On Previous Ordinances And Maps
9-1-6: Definitions
9-1-7: Building Permit Required
9-1-8: Site Plans Required
9-1-9: Fees
9-1-10: Licensing
9-1-11: Inspection
9-1-12: Amendments; Notice And Hearing
9-1-13: Enforcement
9-1-14: Nuisance And Abatement
9-1-15: Penalty
9-1-16: Severability
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF BEAVER COUNTY and may be
so cited and pleaded. (2004 Code § 10.02.010)
9-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and
future inhabitants of the county, including, among other things, the lessening
of congestion of the streets or roads, securing safety from fire and other
dangers, providing adequate light and air, classifying land uses and
distributing land development and protection of the tax base, securing economy
in governmental expenditures, fostering the agricultural and other industries,
and the protection of urban development. (2004 Code § 10.02.020)
9-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements
contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for the purposes
set forth. (2004 Code § 10.02.030)
9-1-4: CONFLICT:
This title shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions, covenants,
agreements, ordinances or laws that affect land or land use under this title,
but shall prevail notwithstanding such provisions which are less restrictive.
(2004 Code § 10.02.040)
9-1-5: EFFECT ON PREVIOUS ORDINANCES AND MAPS:
The existing zoning ordinances covering zoning, including the maps heretofore
adopted and made a part of said ordinances, are hereby superseded and amended
to read as set forth herein; provided, however, that this title, including the
map attached to the ordinance codified herein and on file in the county office,
shall be deemed a continuation of previous ordinances and not a new enactment,
insofar as the substance of revisions of previous ordinances is included in
this title, whether in the same or indifferent language; and this title shall
be so interpreted upon all questions of construction relating to tenure of
officers and boards established by previous ordinances and to questions of
conforming or nonconforming uses and buildings, and to questions as to the
dates upon which such uses or buildings became conforming or nonconforming.
(2004 Code § 10.02.050; amd. 2015 Code)
9-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context requires otherwise, the following definitions shall be used
in the interpretation and construction of this title. Words used in the present
tense include the future; the singular number shall include the plural, and the
plural the singular; the word "building" shall include the word "structure" and
the word "structure" shall include the word "building"; the words "used" or
"occupied" shall include arranged, designed, constructed, altered, converted,
rented, leased, or intended to be leased; the word "shall" is mandatory and not
directory, and the word "may" is permissive; the word "person" includes a firm,
association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well
as an individual; the word "lot" includes the words plot or parcel.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: A use or building on the same lot with, and of a
nature customarily incidental to the principal building or use.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): An additional residential unit added to, created
within, or detached from a primary single-family dwelling that occupies the
same lot.
ACCESSORY SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS: Any photovoltaic, concentrated solar thermal,
or solar not water devices that are accessory to, and incorporated into the
development of an authorized use of the property, and which are designed for
the purpose of reducing or meeting on-site energy needs.
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure on the same lot with, and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or
structure.
AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRY OR BUSINESS: An industry or business involving
agricultural or agricultural products in manufacturing, processing, treatment,
sales, feeding or storage, including, but not limited to, animal feed yards or
facilities, fur farms, food processing or processing plants, water processing
or processing plants, commercial livestock, poultry or egg production, and
similar uses as determined by the planning commission.
AGRICULTURAL TOURISM (AGRITOURISM): Agriculturally related uses designed to
provide recreation, entertainment and educational experiences through
participation in activity tours, classes, and workshops such as animal viewing
and petting, farming, ranching, wagon ride, corn maze, tree farm, pumpkin
patch, hobby and commercial agricultural, aquaculture, forestry, horticulture
nurseries and associated display gardens, and similar uses.
AGRICULTURE: The science and art of raising and producing plants and animals
useful to man and/or industry, including the preparation of plants and animals
for human use and disposal by marketing or otherwise. Agriculture shall
include, but not be limited to: forages and sod crops; grain and feed crops;
dairy animals, poultry, livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine, horses,
ponies, mules or goats; the breeding, grazing, raising, producing and marketing
of any or all such animals; bees, fur animals, trees, fruits of all kind,
including grapes, nuts and berries; vegetables, nursery, floral and ornamental
stock; or when devoted to and meeting the requirements and qualifications for
payment or other compensation pursuant to a cropland retirement program under
an agreement with an agency of the state or federal government.
AIRPORT: Any area of land designed and set aside for the landing and taking off
of aircraft, plus maintenance and auxiliary facilities and buildings for
maintenance.
ALLEY: A public accessway, less than twenty six feet (26') in width, but not
less than twelve feet (12'), which is designed to give secondary access to lots
or abutting properties. An alley shall not be considered a street, for the
purpose of this title.
ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL: Any changes, including additions or modifications, in
the supporting members of a building such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or
girders.
ANIMAL WASTE: The excrement and discharge from an animal, or animal carcasses,
tissues or any other substance or material capable of transmitting disease or
disease carrying agents.
APARTMENT, HOTEL, MOTEL: Any building which contains dwelling units and also
satisfies the definition of a hotel or motel.
ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION: Any building or structural projection which is not
intended for occupancy and which extends beyond the face of an exterior wall of
a structure, but not including signs.
AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES AREA: An open area used for display, sale or rental
of new or used vehicles or trailers in operable condition and where no repair
work is done.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A place where gasoline, or any other motor fuel or
lubricating oil or grease for operating motor vehicles is offered for sale to
the public and deliveries are made directly into motor vehicles, and where
services performed may include tube and tire repair, battery charging, storage
of merchandise, lubricating of automobiles, replacement of spark plugs, lights,
fans, and other small parts, but not including major automobile repair.
AUTOMOTIVE SALVAGE YARD: A privacy fenced-in, non-residential property where
vehicles and related machinery are stored, in the open, for future use of their
individual components.
BASEMENT: A story whose floor is more than twelve inches (12") below the
average level of the adjoining ground, but where no more than one-half (1/2) of
its floor to ceiling height is below the average contact level of the adjoining
ground. A basement shall be counted as a story for purposes of height
measurement, and as a half story for the purpose of side yard determination.
BED AND BREAKFAST: An owner occupied dwelling offering transient lodging
accommodations where meals may be provided. A bed and breakfast may have no
more than five (5) guestrooms or serve no more than ten (10) guests per night
and must be located to be served by adequate existing public services,
specifically fire hydrant location. Must provide off street parking at one per
guestroom and shall be surfaced with asphaltic or portland cement or other
binder pavement so as to provide a dustless surface. Parking to be graded so as
to dispose of all surface water.
BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION: The placing of concrete footing for a building or
structure.
BENCHMARK: A mark affixed to a permanent or semipermanent object to furnish a
datum level in survey.
BOARD OF APPEAL: A five (5) member board appointed by the Beaver County
Commission as provided in this title to hear appeals by any person aggrieved by
his/her inability to obtain a building permit under this title, or by the
decision of any administrative officer or agency based upon or made in the
course of the administration or enforcement of the provisions of this title.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guestrooms where, for
compensation, meals are provided for not more than fifteen (15) persons.
BODY AND FENDER SHOP: A facility for major automobile, truck, mobile home,
recreational coach or recreation vehicle repairs to body, frame or fenders, and
including rebuilding.
BUILDABLE AREA: The portion of a lot remaining after setbacks have been
provided.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended to be used for the shelter, or
enclosure, of persons, animals or property.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance from the average finished grade
surface to the highest point of any building roof or coping.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The Beaver County building inspector; also the county
zoning administrator.
BUILDING, MAIN: The principal building or one of the principal buildings upon a
lot, or the building or one of the buildings housing a principal use upon a
lot.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The official designated by the county commission as the
Beaver County building inspector. The building official may also be the county
zoning administrator, if so designated.
BUILDING, PUBLIC: A building owned and/or operated by a public entity or public
agency or intended to be used by the public.
BULK LPG FACILITY: Any facility at a fixed location whose activities include
filling, refilling or commercial handling or commercial storage of LPG for
distribution by truck to consumers for use. Does not allow retail sale to the
public.
CAMPGROUND: A parcel of land designated and approved by the county for
occupancy by persons using tents, trailers, motor homes or campers on a
temporary basis regulated by this title.
CARPORT: A private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the
purposes of this title, a carport shall be subject to all regulations
prescribed for a private garage.
CELLAR: A room or rooms wholly under the surface of the ground or having more
than fifty percent (50%) of its floor to ceiling height under the average level
of the adjoining ground.
CEMETERY FAMILY: A privately owned plots of land that are reserved for burial.
These plots are not sold to the general public. Rather, they are reserved for
use by the members of the family that owns the cemetery. Consisting of a parcel
of land that maintains a maintains a minimum of five (5) contiguous acres.
CEMETERY PUBLIC: A place designated for the burial or keeping of the remains of
the deceased, whether human or animals, including crematories and mausoleums.
CHILD NURSERY: An establishment, excluding a public school, for the care and/or
the instruction of six (6) or more children other than members of the family
residing on the premises.
CHURCH: A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, maintained
and controlled by a duly recognized religious organization where persons
regularly assemble for worship.
CLINIC, DENTAL OR MEDICAL: A building in which a group of dentists, physicians
and related professionals and their staff are associated for the conduct of
their professions. The clinic may include a dental and/or a medical laboratory
and an apothecary, but it shall not include inpatient care or operating rooms
for major surgery.
CLUB, PRIVATE: An organization, group, association or corporation supported by
the members thereof, the sole purpose of which is to render service customarily
rendered for members and their guests, but shall not include any service, the
chief activity of which is customarily carried on as a business, and does not
include labor union organizations or similar labor or business organizations.
COMMISSION: Unless otherwise indicated, the County Commission of Beaver County,
Utah.
CONDITIONAL USE: A land use that because of its unique characteristics or
potential impact on the County, surrounding neighbors or adjacent land uses,
may not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain
conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.
CONDOMINIUM: An ownership structure established in accordance with the Utah
Condominium Act.
CONSTRUCTION CAMPS: A building or collection of buildings for temporary
residential use as workforce accommodations for an industrial construction
project for one hundred eighty (180) days.
CONVENIENCE STORE: A one-story, retail store containing less than three
thousand (3,000) square feet of gross floor area that is designed and stocked
to sell primarily food, beverages and other household supplies to customers who
purchased only a relatively few items (in contrast to a "supermarket"). It is
designed to attract and depends upon a large volume of stop and go traffic.
Illustrative examples of convenience stores are those operated by the "Circle
K", "7-11" and "Maverick" chains.
CORRAL: A space other than a building, less than one acre in area, or less than
one hundred feet (100') in width, used for the confinement of animals.
COUNTY ATTORNEY: The County Attorney or a Deputy County Attorney who represents
Beaver County.
COUNTY ENGINEER: The engineer employed by or officially representing Beaver
County.
COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER: The Health Officer or department employed by or
officially representing Beaver County.
COURT: An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building or group of buildings, and which is surrounded on three (3) or more
sides by such building or buildings. The width of a court is its least
horizontal dimension, measured between opposite sides in the same direction as
the yard or lot line on which the court opens. The length of a court is its
least horizontal dimension measured at right angles to its width.
COVERAGE, BUILDING: The percent of the total site area covered by buildings.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having an open end and being terminated at the other
end by a vehicle turnaround.
DAIRY: A commercial establishment for the manufacture, processing or packaging
of dairy products, and their sale. For purposes of this definition, the
production of milk on a farm for wholesale marketing off the premises shall not
classify the farm as a dairy.
DATA CENTER: A building or facility that house a large group of networked
computer servers typically used by organizations for the remote storage,
processing, or distribution of large amounts of data.
DISABLED PERSON: A person who:
   A.   Has a severe, chronic disability attributable to mental or physical
impairments, that is likely to continue indefinitely and that results in a
substantial functional limitation in three (3) or more of the following areas
of major life activity:
      1.   Capacity for independent living;
      2.   Economic self-sufficiency;
      3.   Learning;
      4.   Mobility;
      5.   Receptive and expressive language;
      6.   Self-care;
      7.   Self-direction; and
   B.   Requires a combination or sequence to special interdisciplinary or
generic care, treatment or other services that are individually planned and
coordinated to allow the person to function in, and contribute to, a
residential neighborhood.
DISTRICT: A portion of the area of Beaver County, Utah, shown on a zoning map
(attached to the ordinance codified herein and on file in the county office)
and given a zone classification as set forth in this title.
DIVISION OF AGRICULTURAL LAND FOR AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES: A bona fide division
or partition of agricultural land into three (3) or more parcels of not less
than six (6) acres of land for agricultural purposes, as defined herein.
DRIVEWAY: A private entrance, the use of which is limited to persons residing,
employed or otherwise using or visiting the premises on which the driveway is
located.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used primarily as a
residence or sleeping place of one or more family members, but not including a
tent, travel trailer, hotel, motel, hospital or nursing home.
DWELLING, GROUP: A group of two (2) or more detached buildings used as
dwellings.
DWELLING, MOBILE HOME: See definition of Mobile Home.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
more than two (2) families.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by one
family, the structure having only one dwelling unit.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two (2)
families, the structure having only two (2) dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling, apartment hotel or apartment
motel, designed for or occupied by one family for living or sleeping purposes
and having kitchen and bathroom facilities for the use of not more than one
family.
EASEMENT: The acquired private or public right of way, use or enjoyment which
one or more persons may have in the land of another.
ELDERLY PERSON: A person who is sixty (60) years or older who desires or needs
to live with other elderly persons in a group setting, but who is capable of
living independently.
ELECTRIC SUBSTATION: An assemblage of equipment and appurtenant facilities
designed for voltage transformation or voltage control of electricity in
amounts of one hundred fifteen thousand (115,000) volts or more.
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE: A series of three (3) or more structures and
appurtenant facilities erected aboveground, supporting one or more conductors
emanating from a power plant or substation, designed to transit electric energy
in voltages of one hundred fifteen thousand (115,000) volts or more.
ENERGY RELATED PRODUCTS: Oil, gas, steam, geothermal, photovoltaic (solar)
resources.
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption, or a group of not more than four (4) persons (excluding servants) who
are not related, living in a dwelling unit as a single housekeeping unit and
using common cooking facilities.
FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION: The keeping of not more than one horse, one cow, two
(2) sheep, one pig, two (2) goats, twenty (20) rabbits, twenty five (25)
chickens, fifty (50) pheasants, ten (10) turkeys, ten (10) ducks, ten (10)
geese and twenty (20) pigeons; provided, that an additional number of animals
equal to two (2) times the number listed above and an additional number of fowl
equal to five (5) times the number listed above may be kept in each one-half
(1/2) acre in the lot over and above the minimum number of square feet required
for a single-family residential lot in the zone; and provided, that not more
than three (3) of the above listed kinds of animals and fowl are permitted at
any one time on any lot smaller than one acre.
FENCE: A physical barrier to delineate, contain or designate an area designed
for a specific use, i.e., an enclosure for a dwelling unit, an area of storage,
etc.
FLOOD HAZARD: A hazard to land or improvements due to inundation.
FLOOR AREA: Area included within surrounding walls of a building, or portion
thereof, exclusive of vents, shafts and courts.
FOREST INDUSTRY: An industry which uses forest products, such as sawmill, pulp
or paper plant, wood products, plant, and similar uses.
FORESTRY: The raising and harvesting of trees, including retail sales, the
storing, processing and selling of firewood, fence posts and Christmas trees.
FOSTER CARE: Accommodation provided children under the age of eighteen (18) in
a dwelling unit licensed by the Utah division of family services for either: a)
basic; b) specialized; or c) structured care, standards for the same being
known to the county. Accommodation provided children in a dwelling unit
licensed by any agency or organization other than the division of family
services shall not automatically be considered to be foster care, but must
obtain a conditional use permit as a group home in order to give the county
opportunity to review the placement and applicable standards of the placing
organization.
FRONTAGE: All property fronting on one side of the street between intersecting
or intercepting streets, or between a street and a right of way, waterway, end
of dead end street, or political subdivision boundary, measured along the
street line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary of the
frontage on the side of the street which it intercepts.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building, or a portion of a main
building, used or intended to be used for the storage of motor vehicles,
trailers or boats, but not including the parking or storage of trucks or vans
having a capacity in excess of one and one-half (11/2) tons, and not including
space for more than a total of four (4) such vehicles, trailers or boats for
each dwelling unit on the premises.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building, or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
designed or used for servicing, equipping, renting, selling or storing motor
driven vehicles.
GARAGE, REPAIR: A structure, or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
used for the repair or refinishing of self- propelled vehicles, trailers or
boats, including general repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines, motor
vehicles or trailers, and minor repairs or overall automobile or truck
painting.
GEOLOGICAL HAZARD: A hazard inherent in or on the crust of the earth, or
artificially created, which is dangerous or potentially dangerous to life,
property or improvements due to the movement, failure or shifting of the earth.
GRADE:
   A.   For buildings adjoining one street only, the elevation of the sidewalk
at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
   B.   For buildings adjoining more than one street, the average of the
elevation of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls adjoining the streets.
   C.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average level of
the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the centers of all exterior
walls of the building.
   D.   Any wall parallel or nearly parallel to and not more than five feet
(5') from a street line is to be considered as adjoining the street.
GRAZING PERIOD: A period of time for livestock to graze on a designated piece
of land within any given calendar year.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Utah state division of environmental health or local
health agency having jurisdiction.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on by
persons residing in the dwelling unit, said use occupying no more than twenty
five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change
the character thereof and in connection with which there is no display, nor
stock in trade. The home occupation shall not include the sale of commodities
except those which are produced on the premises and shall not involve the use
of any accessory building or yard space or activity outside the main building
not normally associated with residential use. Home occupation may include the
use of the home by a physician, surgeon, dentist, lawyer, clergyman, engineer
or other professional person for consultation or emergency treatment, but not
for the general practice of his trade or profession. Home occupation shall
include the care of not more than six (6) children other than members of the
family residing in the dwelling. In all cases where a home occupation is
engaged in, there shall be no on premises advertising of said occupation, no
window displays or signs and no permanent employees other than family members.
HOSPITAL: An institution for the diagnosis, treatment and care of human illness
or infirmity, including sanatoriums and clinics.
HOTEL: A building that furnishes lodging, food, etc., to travelers or other
guests, for compensation.
HOUSEHOLD PETS: Animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house and kept for
company or pleasure, such as dogs and cats, but not including a sufficient
number of dogs to constitute a "kennel", as defined in this section, but not
including the keeping of normally dangerous animals, such as lions, tigers or
bears.
IRRIGATED LAND: Parcels that have surface or underground water diverted
continuously or intermittently upon them for the production of crops or
pasture, through the utilization of manmade improvements.
JUNK: Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris or other waste or salvage materials; junked, dismantled or wrecked
automobiles or parts thereof; and old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous metal
materials.
JUNKYARD: A lot, land or structure, or part thereof, used primarily for the
collecting, storage and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal or other scrap,
discarded material or junk; or for the collecting, dismantling, storage and
salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in running condition, and for the sale
of parts thereof.
KENNEL: Any premises where three (3) or more dogs over the age of six (6)
months are kept.
LARGE CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: Large concentrated animal feeding
operation [L-CAFO] means an animal feeding operation that stables or confines
as many as or more than the numbers of animals specified in section
9-10D-1.
LIVESTOCK: Cattle, sheep, goats, swine, horses, mules, poultry, mink, or any
other domestic animals.
LIVESTOCK FEED YARD: A commercial operation on a parcel or parcels of land
where livestock are kept in places, such as, but not limited to, corrals,
structures and yards.
LOCAL JURISDICTION: Beaver County.
LODGING HOUSE: A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to at
least three (3) but not more than fifteen (15) persons, but not including
motels or hotels.
LOT: A parcel or unit of land described by metes and bounds and held or
intended to be held in separate lease or ownership; or a unit of land shown as
a lot or parcel on a recorded subdivision map; or a unit of land shown on a
plat used in the lease or sale or offer of lease or sale of land resulting from
the division of a larger tract into two (2) or more smaller units.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection
or upon two (2) parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the same
street forming an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five degrees
(135o).
LOT COVERAGE: Shall be calculated by taking the ground area of the main and
accessory buildings and dividing that total by the area of the lot.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the main direction of the side lot line.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE: Property lines bounding the lot.
LOT, RESTRICTED: Any lot having particular problems in size, slope, contour or
space requiring special action of the Board of Adjustment.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at the
required front yard setback line or rear yard setback line, whichever is
shorter.
MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit not less than sixty feet
(60') long, designed for long term occupancy and to be transported on its own
wheels, or on a flatbed or other trailers or detachable wheels, and arriving at
the site where it is to be occupied as a complete dwelling unit ready for
occupancy, except for connections to utilities and other minor work; removal of
such wheels or placing such dwelling unit on a foundation shall not remove the
unit from the mobile home category, unless the building meets the dwelling
standards of the Building Code.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A lot within a mobile home park or subdivision, designed and
to be used for the accommodation of one mobile home.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot of ground upon which three (3) or more mobile homes
occupied for permanent dwelling purposes are located, whether or not a charge
is made for such accommodation.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: Space within a mobile home park, designed and to be used for
the accommodation of one mobile home.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for residential
use where the lots are to be occupied by mobile homes exclusively.
MODULAR HOME: A permanent dwelling structure built of prefabricated units which
are assembled and erected on the site.
MOTEL: A building or group of buildings for the accommodation of transient
guests, comprising individual sleeping or living units, and designed and
located to serve the motoring public.
NATURAL WATERWAYS: Areas varying in width along streams, creeks, springs,
gullies or washes which are natural drainage channels as determined by the
county engineer, in which no buildings should be constructed.
NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURE: A structure that:
   A.   Legally existed before its current land use designation; and
   B.   Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not
conform to the setback, height restrictions or other regulations, excluding
those regulations which govern the use of land.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of land that:
   A.   Legally existed before its current land use designation;
   B.   Has been maintained continuously since the time the land use ordinance
governing the land changed; and
   C.   Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not
conform to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.
NURSING HOME: An institution, other than a hospital, for the care of human
illness or infirmity whereby the care, rather than diagnosis or treatment of
the illness or infirmity, constitutes the principal function. The term "nursing
home" shall also include "rest home" and "convalescent home".
OFF SITE FACILITIES: Improvements not on individual lots but which are
generally within the boundaries of the subdivision which they serve.
OPEN SPACE: Space reserved in parks, courts, playgrounds, golf courses and
other similar open areas, and those areas reserved to meet the density
requirements of planned unit development.
PARKING LOT: An open area, other than a street, used for parking of more than
four (4) automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for
compensation, or accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: A permanently surfaced area, enclosed or unenclosed, for the
parking of one motor vehicle.
PERCENT OF GRADE: The percentage increase in elevation over a one hundred foot
(100') horizontal distance. For example, a ten percent (10%) grade would be a
use in elevation of one foot (1') in ten feet (10'), or ten feet (10') in one
hundred feet (100').
PERMANENT MONUMENT: A structure of concrete, masonry and/or metal permanently
placed on or in the ground, including those expressly placed for surveying
reference, which meets the requirements of the county for permanent monuments.
PETROLEUM REFINING: An industrial process plant where crude oil is processed
and refined into petroleum products, such as gasoline, diesel fuel and other
products.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An integrated design for development of residential,
commercial or industrial uses, or combinations of such uses, in which the
density and location regulations of the district in which the development is
situated may be varied or waived to allow flexibility and initiative in site
and building design and location, in accordance with an approved plan and
imposed general requirements.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Beaver County planning commission.
PUBLIC USE: A use operated exclusively by a public body or quasi-public body,
such use having the purpose of serving the public health, safety or general
welfare, and including recreational facilities, administrative and service
facilities and public utilities, including water and sewer lines and
facilities, gas and electricity lines and facilities, but excluding prisons and
animal control facilities.
PUBLIC UTILITIES: Common carriers, pipeline corporations, gas corporations,
electrical corporations, telephone corporations, telegraph corporations, water
corporations and other similar corporations or cooperatives where service is
performed and/or a commodity delivered to the public or any portion thereof.
REASONABLE NOTICE: The requirements of reasonable notice are met regarding
public hearings and/or public meetings as follows:
   A.   Public Hearings: Reasonable notice shall be satisfied by posting
written notice of the date, time and place of the first public hearing in at
least three (3) public locations within the county, or on the county's official
website; mailed to each affected entity and posted on the Utah Public Notice
Website at least ten (10) calendar days before the public hearing; or mailed at
least ten (10) days before the public hearing to each property owner whose land
is directly affected by the land use ordinance change; and each adjacent
property owner within the parameters specified by county ordinance.
   B.   Public Meetings: Reasonable notice shall be satisfied by posting
written notice of the meeting agenda, date, time and place, twenty-four (24)
hours in advance of the meeting on the Utah Public Notice Website and in at
least three (3) public locations within the county, or on the county's official
website. Emergency meetings and/or closed meetings may be held only as
authorized by the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle, such as a travel trailer, tent camper, camp
car or other vehicle with or without motive power, designed and/or constructed
to travel on the public thoroughfare in accordance with the provisions of the
Utah motor vehicle act, and designed for use as human habitation for a
temporary and recreational nature.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: An area or tract of land or a designated section
within a mobile home park where lots are rented or held for rent to one or more
owners or users of recreational vehicles for a temporary time not to exceed one
hundred twenty (120) days.
SANITARY LANDFILL: An area set aside that meets all federal and state laws for
the disposal of solid waste.
SETBACK: The shortest horizontal distance between the boundary line of a lot
and the building or structure or part thereof.
SIGN: A presentation or representation of words, letters, figures, designs,
pictures or colors, publicly displayed so as to give notice relative to a
person, a business, an article of merchandise, a service, an assemblage, a
solicitation or a request for aid; also, the structure or framework or any
natural object on which any sign is erected or is intended to be erected or
exhibited or which is being used or is intended to be used for sign purposes.
SIGN, ADVERTISING: A sign which advertises a business, profession, commodity,
service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered other than on the premises
where the sign is displayed, or a sign in which more than twenty five percent
(25%) of the area of the sign is devoted to advertising a use or product which
does not constitute the principal activity or product of the establishment of
the premises.
SIGN, ANIMATED: A sign which involves motion or rotation of any part, created
by artificial means, or which displays flashing, revolving or intermittent
lights.
SIGN AREA: The area in square feet of the smallest rectangle enclosing the
total exterior surface of a sign having but one exposed exterior surface;
should the sign have more than one surface, the sign area shall be the
aggregate of all surfaces measured as above.
SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a business, profession,
commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or manufactured upon the
same lot. A sign advertising a particular product or line of products sold on
the premises but not constituting the principal activity of the establishment
may be included; provided, that not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the
area of the sign is devoted to such advertising.
SIGN, FREESTANDING: A sign located directly on the ground, or on any support
other than a building, whether or not the principal purpose of such support is
to display the sign.
SIGN, IDENTIFICATION AND INFORMATION: A sign displayed to indicate the means or
nature of a building, or of a use.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED: A sign in which a source of light is used in order to make
the message readable. This definition shall include internally and externally
lighted signs.
SIGN, MARQUEE: Any sign added to or made an integral part of a marquee.
SIGN, PROJECTING WALL: A sign which is affixed to an exterior wall or structure
and which projects more than eighteen inches (18") from the building or
structure wall, and which does not extend above the parapet, eaves or building
facade of the building upon which it is placed.
SIGN, RESIDENTIAL: A sign which gives notice of the name or the address of a
residential building, the name or occupation of the resident thereof, or
conditions of use of parking facilities serving a residential use.
SIGN, WALL OR FLAT: A sign affixed to or painted on the wall of a building in
such a manner that the surface of the sign is parallel with the prevailing
surface of the wall upon which the sign is displayed, and which does not
project beyond such surface more than ten inches (10"), nor above the roof or
cornice line of such building.
SITE PLAN: A plan containing the information required by section
9-1-8 of this chapter.
SOLAR POWER PLANT: A utility-scale commercial facility that converts sunlight
into electricity, whether by photovoltaics (PV), concentrating solar thermal
devices (CST), or various experimental solar technologies, for the primary
purpose of wholesale or retail sales of generated electricity.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building for the keeping of horses owned
by the occupant of the premises and not kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the floor or ceiling next above it.
STORY, HALF: A partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which on at least two (2) opposite exterior walls are not more than
four feet (4') above the floor of such story; and the floor area of which does
not exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the floor area of the floor next immediately
below it; provided, however, that any partial story used for one or more
dwelling units shall be deemed a full story.
STREET, PRIVATE: A right of way or easement in private ownership, not dedicated
or accepted as a public street, which affords the principal means of access to
two (2) or more sites.
STREET, PUBLIC: A thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to the
public and accepted by a proper public authority, or a thoroughfare not less
than twenty five feet (25') wide which has been made public by right of use and
which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires fixed location on
the ground, or attachment to something having a fixed location upon the ground.
SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided into
two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other division of land
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease or
development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms, and conditions.
   B.   "Subdivision" includes:
      1.   The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument; and
      2.   Except as provided in subsection C of this definition, divisions of
land for residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used
for commercial, agricultural and industrial purposes.
   C.   "Subdivision" does not include:
      1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes;
      2.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties
adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new lot is created; and
         b.   The adjustment does not violate applicable land use ordinances;
      3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
         a.   Revising the legal description of more than one contiguous
unsubdivided parcel of property into one legal description encompassing all
such parcels of property; or
         b.   Joining a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided, if the joinder does not violate
applicable land use ordinances;
      4.   A bona fide division or partition of land in a county other than a
first class county for the purpose of siting, on one or more of the resulting
separate parcels:
         a.   An electrical transmission line or a substation;
         b.   A natural gas pipeline or a regulation station; or
         c.   An unmanned telecommunications, microwave, fiber optic,
electrical or other utility service regeneration, transformation,
retransmission or amplification facility;
      5.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
properties adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the
adjustment; and
         b.   The adjustment will not violate any applicable land use
ordinance;
      6.   A bona fide division or partition of land by deed or other
instrument where the land use authority expressly approves in writing the
division in anticipation of further land use approvals on the parcel or
parcels; or
      7.   A parcel boundary adjustment.
   D.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a subdivision under
this definition as to the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the
unsubdivided parcel to the County subdivision ordinance.
TELECOMMUNICATION SITE/FACILITY: Facility used for the transmission or
reception of electromagnetic or electro-optic information, which is placed on a
structure. This use does not include radio frequency equipment which has an
effective radiated power of one hundred (100) watts or less. This use is not
required to be located on a building lot or to comply with the minimum lot size
requirement for the district in which it is located.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary dwelling
for travel, recreational/vacation uses, which is not more than eight feet (8')
wide.
TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: Any area where one or more travel trailer lots are rented
for a relatively short term occupancy to users of travel trailers or
recreational vehicles.
TROUBLED YOUTH: A person under the age of eighteen (18) years who:
   A.   Is dysfunctional as the result of psychological and/or attitudinal
conditions evidenced by a pattern of social adjustment difficulties, unlawful
activities, disruptive behavior, or a combination of each, to a degree that has
caused an agency of the State of Utah or Beaver County to intervene by ordering
the physical separation of that person from a previous environment coupled with
a process of rehabilitation, informal or otherwise; and
   B.   Is ordered to reside in a residential care facility or similar
residential setting as the consequences of his/her own actions and behavior and
not because of the actions or behavior of parents or others; and
   C.   Is determined by the Utah Division of Family Services as being in need
of "structured care" as defined by the categories and standards of that agency.
TRUCK STOP: An occupancy which provides especially for the servicing of trucks,
with incidental operations similar to those permitted automobile service
stations.
USE, ACCESSORY: A use subordinate and incident to the main use of a building or
land located upon the same lot or parcel.
VESTED APPLICATION: A land use application is considered complete, and thereby
vested, when the applicant submits a completed application in compliance with
all code requirements, regulations and applicable fees paid.
VETERINARY OR ANIMAL HOSPITAL: A building or group of buildings, together with
runs, where large and/or small animals are kept and/or treated by a licensed
veterinarian.
WASTE TIRE: A pneumatic tire or solid tire for motor vehicles that has been
discarded or that can no longer be used for its original intended purpose
because of wear, damage or defect.
WASTE TIRE PROCESSING FACILITY: A site used for the shredding, slicing,
producing or manufacturing of usable materials from waste tires, including
incidental temporary storage activity. Processing does not include the
retreading of waste tires or the burning of tires or the waste from tires.
YARD: A required open space on a lot, other than a court, which open space is
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as permitted
elsewhere in this title.
YARD, FRONT: A space on the same lot with a building, between the front line of
a building and the front lot line, and extending across the full width of the
lot. The "depth" of the front yard is the minimum distance between the front
lot line and the front line of the building.
YARD, REAR: A space on the same lot with a building, between the rear line of
the building and the rear lot line, extending across the full width of the lot.
The "depth" of the rear yard is the minimum distance between the rear lot line
and the rear line of the building.
YARD, SIDE: A space on the same lot with a building, between the side line of
the building, and the side lot line and extending from the front yard to the
rear yard. The "width" of the side yard is the minimum distance between the
side lot line and the side line of the building.
ZONE: See definition of district.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The Beaver County zoning ordinance.
(2004 Code § 10.02.060; amd. Ord. 2006-12, 11-13-2006; Ord. 2008-03, 4-7-2008;
Ord. 2009-01, 1-5-2009; Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010; Ord. 2010-03, 5-3-2010; Ord.
2010-04, 6-7-2010; Ord. 2014-09, 6-2-2014; 2015 Code; Ord. 2018-05, 6-5-2018;
Ord. 2019-07, 9-3-2019; Ord. 2021-09, 2-1-2022; Ord. 2022-06, 10-4-2022; Ord.
2022-12, 11-22-2022; Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
9-1-7: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   The construction, alteration, repair or removal of any building or
structure, or any part thereof, as provided or as restricted in this title,
shall not be commenced until the building inspector has issued the appropriate
permit. If work is not started on a structure or building within one hundred
eighty (180) days from issuance of a permit, a new permit will be required.
   B.   Pursuant to the issuance of a building permit in the County, the
applicant shall submit to the building inspector evidence of having an approved
culinary water supply and an approved method of waste disposal. Both the water
supply and the method of waste disposal shall be approved in writing by the
Southwest Utah Public Health Department prior to the issuance of a building
permit. Applicants that meet Southwest Utah Public Health Department standards
for an approved culinary water supply and an approved method of human waste
disposal shall be given a permit or other certificate by the Southwest Utah
Public Health Department evidencing compliance with such Southwest Utah Public
Health Department standards.
   C.   Setbacks in all zoning districts are as described in such district,
plus twenty three feet (23') for future road improvements, as determined by the
Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 2004-03, 4-5-2004)
9-1-8: SITE PLANS REQUIRED:
A detailed site plan, drawn to scale (scale and sheet size to be determined by
the building inspector) shall be filed as a part of any application, prior to
consideration for any building permit. The site plan shall show, where
pertinent:
   A.   Note of scale used.
   B.   Direction of north point.
   C.   Lot lines, together with adjacent streets, roads and rights of way.
   D.   Location of all existing structures on subject property and adjoining
properties (completely dimensioned, including utility lines, poles, etc.).
   E.   Location of the proposed construction and improvements, including the
location and dimensions of all signs.
   F.   Motor vehicle access, including individual parking spaces, circulation
patterns, curb, gutter and sidewalk location.
   G.   Necessary explanatory notes.
   H.   Name, address and telephone number of builder and owner.
   I.   All other information that may be required as is determined by the
building inspector. (2004 Code § 10.02.080)
9-1-9: FEES:
Applicants may be assessed fees for building, occupancy and conditional use
permits, design review and planned unit development approval, planning
commission and board of adjustment hearings, and such other services as are
required by this title to be performed by public officers or agencies. Such
fees shall be established by the legislative body and shall be in amounts
reasonably necessary to defray costs to the public. (2004 Code § 10.02.160)
9-1-10: LICENSING:
All departments, officials and public employees of the county which are vested
with duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall comply with the
provisions of this title and shall not issue a permit or license for uses,
buildings or purposes where the same would be in conflict with the provisions
of this title, and any such permit or license, if issued in conflict with the
provisions of this title, shall be null and void. (2004 Code § 10.02.150)
9-1-11: INSPECTION:
The building inspector is hereby authorized to inspect or to cause to be
inspected all buildings and structures in the course of construction,
modifications or repair and to inspect land uses to determine compliance with
the provisions of this title. The building inspector or any authorized employee
of the county shall have the right to enter the premises for the purpose of
determining compliance with the provisions of this title; provided, that such
entry shall be exercised only at reasonable hours and that in no case shall
entry be made to any occupied building in the absence of the owner or tenant
thereof without written permission of the owner, or the written order of a
court of competent jurisdiction. (2004 Code § 10.02.090)
9-1-12: AMENDMENTS; NOTICE AND HEARING:
   A.   Submittal To Planning Commission: The county commission may from time
to time amend the number, shape, boundaries or areas of any district, or any
regulation or any other provision of this title, but any such amendment shall
not be made or become effective until the same shall have been proposed by or
be first submitted to the planning commission for its recommendation.
   B.   Property Owner Application; Evidence Of Ownership: In the case of an
application by a property owner or other citizen for an amendment, the county
planning commission and/or the board of county commissioners, as a prerequisite
to the consideration of such application, may require that such applicant, at
the applicant's expense, furnish to such commission and/or board title
evidence, in such form as such commission or board may determine, indicating
the ownership of the property to be affected by the proposed amendment and the
interest therein of the applicant, and may also require that notice of such
proposed amendment be given to all parties claiming an interest in such
property. (2004 Code § 10.02.130)
   C.   Hearing, Publication And Notice Before Amendment: Before finally
adopting any such amendment, the commission shall hold a public hearing
thereon. "Reasonable notice", as defined in section
9-1-6 of this chapter, of the public hearing shall be given at least ten (10)
days before the date of hearing. (2004 Code § 10.02.140; amd. 2015 Code; Ord.
2022-06, 10-4-2022)
9-1-13: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Official Designated: The zoning administrator appointed by the board of
county commissioners is hereby designated and authorized as the officer charged
with the enforcement of this title. It shall be the duty of the zoning
administrator, peace officers or building inspector to enforce the provisions
of this title. The zoning administrator, in addition to certified peace
officers, shall have authority to issue citations as provided under the state
criminal code for violations of any provision of this title.
   B.   Filing Of Complaints: Any person discovering a violation of this title
may file a written complaint with the zoning administrator stating fully the
facts supporting the alleged violation. The zoning administrator shall promptly
record such written complaint and investigate and undertake appropriate
enforcement action. The zoning administrator may be assisted by law enforcement
personnel, the building inspector or other departments of the county.
   C.   Relationship To Other Ordinances: No business license, building permit,
occupancy permit, street encroachment permit, health permit, water connection,
sewer connection or other permits, licenses or services provided by the county
shall be granted to any person whose use of land, use of structures or whose
construction of buildings or other structures is in violation of this title,
except those uses for which a valid order of the board of adjustment or a court
of competent jurisdiction has been issued.
   D.   Violation Under Previous Ordinances: The adoption of this title shall
not void or abate any violations occurring under the zoning ordinance as
heretofore in effect, nor any prior zoning ordinance providing for zoning of
property within the county, nor shall it affect any debt or fee which has
accrued, any debt imposed, any penalty incurred, any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of such ordinances.
   E.   Extraordinary Remedies: The county, may, in addition to other remedies
provided by law, institute injunction, mandamus, abatement or any other
appropriate action or actions or proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate or
remove the unlawful building, use or act carried on in violation of this title.
(2004 Code § 10.02.100)
9-1-14: NUISANCE AND ABATEMENT:
Any building or structure erected, constructed, altered, enlarged, converted,
moved or maintained contrary to the provisions of this title, and any use of
land, building or premises established, constructed or maintained contrary to
the provisions of this title, shall be, and the same is hereby, declared to be
unlawful and a public nuisance. The county attorney shall, upon request of the
county commission, at once commence action or proceedings for abatement and
removal or enjoinment thereof in a manner provided by law, and take other steps
and apply to such courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief, as
provided by law. The remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not
exclusive. (2004 Code § 10.02.110)
9-1-15: PENALTY:
Violation of any of the provisions of this title shall, upon conviction, be
punishable as a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of knowing violation of any provision of this
title shall be a separate offense. (2004 Code § 10.02.120; amd. 2015 Code)
9-1-16: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this title is for any
reason held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such holding
shall not effect the validity of the remaining portion or portions of this
title. (2004 Code § 10.02.170)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
9-2-1: Membership
9-2-2: Terms Of Office
9-2-3: Vacancies And Removals For Cause
9-2-4: Compensation Of Members And Secretary
9-2-5: Officers Elected
9-2-6: Rules And Procedures
9-2-7: Quorum And Vote
9-2-8: Employees; Expenditures
9-2-9: Powers And Duties
9-2-1: MEMBERSHIP:
The Beaver County Planning Commission shall consist of seven (7) members
appointed by the Chairperson of the Board of County Commissioners, with the
advice and consent of the County Board of County Commissioners. All applicants
for appointment to the Planning Commission may be reviewed by the Planning
Commission prior to submission to the Board of County Commissioners. When
possible, the seven (7) members of the Planning Commission should be compiled
from individuals who represent diverse backgrounds, qualifications, experience
and education. Each member shall be a current registered voter of Beaver County
and the owner of real property situated within Beaver County and have declared
Beaver County to be their primary residence on the County tax records, or
documented proof of primary residency. (Ord. 2019-01, 3-19-2019)
9-2-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The terms of appointed members of the County Planning Commission shall be three
(3) years. Commission members shall not serve more than three (3) consecutive
terms of office, or until their respective successors have been appointed;
provided, that the term of the members of the first Planning Commission so
appointed shall be such that the terms of two (2) members shall expire each
year. (2004 Code § 10.03.020; amd. 2015 Code)
9-2-3: VACANCIES AND REMOVALS FOR CAUSE:
The Board of County Commissioners shall provide for the filling of vacancies in
the membership of the Planning Commission and for the removal of a member for
nonperformance of duty or misconduct. When replacing an existing Planning
Commission member who is leaving before the completion of his three (3) year
term, the newly appointed member will serve the remainder of the term of the
member being replaced. Upon completion of the term the Planning Commission
member may reapply for additional terms. (Ord. 2016-03, 11-7-2016)
9-2-4: COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS AND SECRETARY:
Each member of the Planning Commission and the Secretary thereof may be
compensated by an amount established by the County Commission for each meeting
of the Board which he or she shall attend, and for actual expenses incurred,
upon presentation of proper receipts and vouchers. (2004 Code § 10.03.040)
9-2-5: OFFICERS ELECTED:
The Planning Commission shall elect from its appointed members, a Chairperson,
whose term shall be for one year, and the Planning Commission may create and
fill other such offices as it may determine. (2004 Code § 10.03.050)
9-2-6: RULES AND PROCEDURES:
The Planning Commission shall adopt such rules and regulations governing its
procedures as it may consider necessary or advisable, and shall keep a record
of its proceedings, which record shall be open to inspection by the public at
all reasonable times. (2004 Code § 10.03.060)
9-2-7: QUORUM AND VOTE:
A quorum shall consist of four (4) members. Evidence shall not be presented
unless a quorum is present. A majority vote shall consist of at least a
majority of members present. (2004 Code § 10.03.070)
9-2-8: EMPLOYEES; EXPENDITURES:
The Planning Commission shall have the power and authority to employ experts
and a staff, and to pay such expenses as may be deemed reasonable and necessary
for carrying out its responsibilities, upon presentation of proper receipts and
vouchers, but not in excess of such sums as may be appropriated by the Board of
County Commissioners. (2004 Code § 10.03.080)
9-2-9: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall have the duty to exercise all powers and
functions conferred upon it by the statutes of the state and the ordinances of
the county relating to planning and zoning, including the granting of special
exceptions, and the approval of conditional use permits, as provided herein.
(2004 Code § 10.03.090)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF APPEAL
SECTION:
9-3-1: Membership
9-3-2: Organization And Meetings
9-3-3: Quorum
9-3-4: Powers Of Board
9-3-5: Variances
9-3-6: Appeals
9-3-7: Fees
9-3-8: Compensation Of Members And Secretary
9-3-9: Judicial Review Of Board Decision; Time Limitation
9-3-1: MEMBERSHIP:
The board of appeal shall consist of five (5) members, each to be appointed by
the chairperson or executive officer of the board of county commissioners, with
the advice and consent of the legislative body. Each member shall serve a term
of four (4) years; provided, that the term of the members of the first board so
appointed shall be such that the term of one member shall expire each year. Any
member may be removed for cause by the appointing authority upon written
charges and after public hearing, if such public hearing is requested.
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose position
becomes vacant in the same manner as in the case of original appointments. One
member, but not more than one, of the planning commission shall be a member of
the board of appeal. The board of county commissioners may appoint alternate
members of such board, and due to absence from the county, illness, interest in
a case before the board or any other cause, his or her place may be taken
during such temporary disability by an alternate member designated for that
purpose; provided, no more than two (2) alternate members may sit at any
meeting of the board of appeal at one time. (2004 Code § 10.04.010; amd. Ord.
2022-07, 10-4-2022)
9-3-2: ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS:
The board of appeal shall organize and elect a chairperson for a term of one
year and adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at such
other times as the board may determine. The chairperson, or in his or her
absence the acting chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses. All meetings of the board shall be open to the public. The board
shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon
each question or if absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact. Records of
its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the office of the board, shall be a public record. (2004 Code §
10.04.020; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 2022-07, 10-4-2022)
9-3-3: QUORUM:
A quorum shall consist of four (4) members of the board, and no evidence shall
be presented unless a quorum is present. (2004 Code § 10.04.030; Ord. 2022-07,
10-4-2022)
9-3-4: POWERS OF BOARD:
The board of appeal shall hear and decide the following:
   A.   Appeals: Appeals from zoning decisions applying this title;
   B.   Special Exceptions: Special exceptions to the terms of this title;
   C.   Variances: Variances from the terms of this title; and
   D.   Determinations Of Nonconforming Uses And Noncomplying Buildings:
      1.   To permit the enlargement of, addition to, or relocation of a
building or structure, nonconforming as to use regulations, as follows:
         a.   For a nonconforming use located in a residential zone, the
enlargement, addition or relocation shall either: 1) comply with all the
height, yard and area requirements for a single-family dwelling in the zone in
which the nonconforming building is located; or 2) the proposed enlargement,
addition or relocation will either: a) improve the area by increasing the off
street parking; or b) improve the general appearance, convenience or safety of
the area;
         b.   For a nonconforming use located in any zone other than a
residential zone, the enlargement, addition or relocation shall comply with all
height, yard and area requirements for a main building, other than dwellings,
in the zone in which it is located;
         c.   Before granting a permit for any enlargement, addition or
relocation as provided above, the board of appeal shall find in its public
hearing that the proposed changes will not hinder or obstruct the attainment of
the objectives listed in section
9-1-2 of this title more than does the existing nonconforming use;
         d.   That granting the variance does not constitute a special
privilege inconsistent with the limitations upon other properties in the
vicinity and land use district in which such property is located;
         e.   That granting the variance does not allow a use or activity which
is prohibited by the regulations governing the subject parcel; and
         f.   That granting the variance will not be inconsistent with the
general plan.
      2.   The board of appeal may allow those enlargements of, additions to,
or relocation of buildings and structures, nonconforming as to yard, height or
area regulations in those cases where an undue hardship will result to the
owner of the land involved unless granted, and the attainment of the objectives
listed in section
9-1-2 of this title will not be hindered or obstructed, and provided the
proposed enlargement, addition to or relocation will either: a) improve the
area by increasing needed off street parking; or b) improve the general
appearance, convenience or safety of the area.
      3.   Where a zone boundary line divides a lot in single ownership at the
time of the establishment of said boundary, the board may permit a use
authorized on either portion of such lot to extend more than thirty-five feet
(35') beyond the district boundary line, or extend to an area greater than five
thousand (5,000) square feet beyond the said boundary line.
      4.   Permit a nonconforming use to be changed to another use allowed in
the same or in a more restrictive zone than the one in which the nonconforming
use would be allowed; provided, that the board of appeal finds in its public
hearing that such changes will not hinder or obstruct the attainment of the
objectives listed in section
9-1-2 of this title more than does the existing nonconforming use.
      5.   Permit the construction and use of a dwelling upon a lot which does
not have frontage on a dedicated right of way, but does have frontage on a
street.
      6.   Permit the splitting of a lot wherein such lot split creates a lot
which does not have the required width of the zone in which the lot is located;
provided, the created nonconforming lot meets the area requirements of the
zone, and the structure placed on the lot meets all required site standards of
the zone; and furthermore that before building permits are issued for the
nonconforming split lot, the lot split shall be reviewed and approved by the
planning commission. (2004 Code § 10.04.040; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 10-4-2022)
9-3-5: VARIANCES:
   A.   Permitted; Application: Any person or entity desiring a waiver or
modification of the requirements of this title as applied to a parcel of
property that he owns, leases, or in which he holds some other beneficial
interest may apply to the board of appeal for a variance from the terms of this
title.
   B.   Terms For Granting Variance:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, the board of
appeal may grant a variance only if:
         a.   Literal enforcement of this title would cause an unreasonable
hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general
purpose of this title;
         b.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do
not generally apply to other property in the same district;
         c.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a
substantial property in the same district;
         d.   The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and
will not be contrary to the public interest; and
         e.   The spirit of this title is observed and substantial justice
done.
      2.   a.   In determining whether or not enforcement of this title would
cause unreasonable hardship under subsection B1 of this section, the board of
appeal may not find an unreasonable hardship unless the alleged hardship:
            (1)   Is located on or associated with the property for which the
variance is sought; and
            (2)   Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from
conditions that are general to the neighborhood.
         b.   In determining whether or not enforcement of this title would
cause unreasonable hardship under subsection B1 of this section, the board of
appeal may not find an unreasonable hardship if the hardship is self-imposed or
economic.
      3.   In determining whether or not there are special circumstances
attached to the property under subsection B1 of this section, the board of
appeal may find that special circumstances exist only if the special
circumstances:
         a.   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
         b.   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in
the same district.
   C.   Burden Of Proof: The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that
all of the conditions justifying a variance have been met.
   D.   Variances Run With Land: Variances run with the land.
   E.   Use Variances Prohibited: The board of appeal and any other body may
not grant use variances.
   F.   Additional Requirements Imposed: In granting a variance, the board of
appeal may impose additional requirements on the applicant that will:
      1.   Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or
      2.   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or
modified. (2004 Code § 10.04.050)
   G.   Time Limitation On Variance: In the event the board of appeal does
grant a variance in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, alterations
in accordance with the variance must be activated within six (6) months after
the date such variance is granted or the variance may be extended an additional
six (6) months by the board of appeal, only if the petitioner shows adequate
cause to the board that circumstances necessitate a time extension. (2004 Code
§ 10.04.110; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 10-4-2022)
9-3-6: APPEALS:
   A.   Permitted: Appeals to the board of appeal may be taken by any person or
entity adversely affected by a zoning decision administering or interpreting a
zoning ordinance by alleging that there is error in the order, requirement,
decision or determination made by any designated county official charged with
the administration and enforcement of this title, or any other administrative
officer or board.
   B.   Time Limit For Filing: An appeal must be filed, in writing, with the
county clerk, within ten (10) business days of the date the appealed order,
requirement, decision or determination was ordered, imposed or made. (2004 Code
§ 10.04.055)
   C.   Notice Of Hearing; Right Of Appearance: The board of appeal shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof as
well as due notice to the parties in interest, and shall decide the same within
a reasonable time. Any party may appear at the hearing in person or by agent or
by attorney. (2004 Code § 10.04.060)
   D.   Stay Of Proceedings Pending Appeal: An appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the
appeal is taken certifies to the board of appeal, after the notice of appeal
shall have been filed with said officer, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would in their opinion cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such case proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
restraining order, which may be granted by the board of appeal or by the
district court, on application and notice and on due cause shown. (2004 Code §
10.04.070)
   E.   Decision On Appeal: In exercising the above mentioned powers, the board
of appeal may, in conformity with the provisions of this title, reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirements, decision or
determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirements, decision or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of
the officer from whom the appeal is taken. (2004 Code § 10.04.080)
   F.   Vote Necessary For Reversal: The concurring vote of four (4) members of
the board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement or determination
of any such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the appellant on
any matter upon which it is required to pass under any ordinance, or to effect
any variation in such ordinance. (2004 Code § 10.04.090)
   G.   Standard Of Review: All appeals will be done as a Record Review of
factual matters. (2004 Code § 10.04.090; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 10-4-2022)
9-3-7: FEES:
Upon filing any appeal or application to the board of appeal, the appellant or
applicant shall pay to the county a fee prescribed by the county commission.
The said fee shall be collected by the officer in whose office said appeal is
filed, and shall be deposited with the county treasurer and credited to the
general fund. No appeal or application shall be considered by the board of
appeal unless and until such fee has been paid. (2004 Code § 10.04.120; amd.
Ord. 2022-07, 10-4-2022)
9-3-8: COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS AND SECRETARY:
Each member of the board of appeal and the secretary thereof may be compensated
by an amount established by the county commission for each meeting of the board
which he or she shall attend, and for actual expenses incurred, upon
presentation of proper receipts and vouchers. (2004 Code § 10.04.130; amd. 2015
Code; Ord. 2022-07, 10-4-2022)
9-3-9: JUDICIAL REVIEW OF BOARD DECISION; TIME LIMITATION:
The county or any person aggrieved by any decision of the board of appeal may
have and maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in any court of
competent jurisdiction; provided, a petition for such relief is presented to
the court within thirty (30) days after the board of appeal files its decision
in the office of the board. (2004 Code § 10.04.100; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 10-4-
2022)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Establishment Of Zoning Districts
9-4-2: Rules For Locating Boundaries
9-4-3: Prohibited Uses Within Districts
9-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
For the purposes of this title, the territory of the county to which this title
applies is divided into the following zoning districts:
Agricultural district (A)
Residential district (R)
Residential estates district (RE)
Forest/recreation residential district (FR)
Multiple-family residential district (RM)
Multiple use district (MU-20)
Commercial and industrial districts
Planned district (P)
Airport influence district (AI)
Floodplain overlay district (FP)
Sensitive area district (SA)
(2004 Code § 10.15.010; amd. 2015 Code)
9-4-2: RULES FOR LOCATING BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any district, the following
rules shall apply:
   A.   Wherever the district boundary is indicated as being approximately at
the centerline of a street, alley or block, or along a property line, then,
unless otherwise definitely indicated on the map, the centerline of such
street, alley or block, or such property line, shall be construed to be the
boundary of such district.
   B.   Whenever the district boundary is indicated as being approximately at
the boundary of any stream, river, canal or other waterway or railroad right of
way, or public park or other public land, or any section line, then in such
case the center of such stream, canal or waterway, or of such railroad right of
way, or the property line of such public park or other public land or such
section line, shall be deemed to be the boundary of such district.
   C.   Where such district boundary lines cannot be determined by the above
rules, their location may be found by use of the scale appearing upon the map.
   D.   Where the application of the above rules does not clarify the district
boundary location, the planning commission shall interpret the map. (2004 Code
§ 10.15.020)
9-4-3: PROHIBITED USES WITHIN DISTRICTS:
   A.   All uses, not specified within a particular zoning district, shall be
prohibited unless the planning and zoning commission determines, on a case by
case basis, that a particular use is similar and/or in harmony with the
character and intent of that zone.
   B.   Those uses which are not therein enumerated but are expressly permitted
or conditionally permitted in any other zone are prohibited in said district.
(Ord. 2016-02, 3-21-2016)
CHAPTER 5 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. AGRICULTURAL 10 (A-10), AGRICULTURAL 20 (A-20), AGRICULTURAL 20FM
(A20FM) DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-5A-1: Purpose
9-5A-2: Permitted Uses
9-5A-3: Conditional Uses
9-5A-4: Height Regulations
9-5A-5: Area, Width And Yard Regulations
9-5A-6: Modifying Regulations
9-5A-7: Qualifying Regulations
9-5A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the agricultural districts is to preserve appropriate areas for
permanent and temporary agricultural and open space uses. Uses normally and
necessarily related to agriculture are permitted and adverse uses to the
continuance of agricultural activity are not allowed. (Ord. 2023-07, 10-17-
2023)
9-5A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the agricultural districts include:
   Accessory solar energy systems.
   Accessory uses and buildings.
   Crop production, including pipelines for irrigation and livestock watering.
   Dams and reservoirs.
   Grazing livestock, excluding swine.
   Nursery and/or greenhouses. (Ord. 2023-07, 10-17-2023)
9-5A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses in the agricultural districts include:
   Agricultural industry or business.
   Below grade pipelines for transporting various energy related products to
markets, including accessory uses associated to the pipeline.
   Drilling for any energy related products.
   Electric substation.
   Electric transmission line.
   Forestry.
   Fur farms, livestock feed yards, corrals, silage pits and poultry pens.
   Gravel pits.
   Home occupation, with notification to residents within five hundred feet
(500'), by letter, at least seven (7) days prior to planning and zoning
meeting.
   Keeping, raising, slaughtering or marketing swine.
   LPG gas, bulk distribution.
   Plants for the production of electricity, powered by hydroelectric, wind
and/or photovoltaic (solar).
   Public riding stables.
   Public use.
   Radio and television transmitting stations or towers.
   Retail sales of nurseries and/or greenhouses.
   Screens and/or crushers and similar machinery, for period of approval no
longer than six (6) consecutive months. Screens/crushers, etc., shall not be
located within one-half (1/2) mile of residence, without signatures.
Notification to all property owners within one-half (1/2) mile, by letter, at
least seven (7) days prior to planning and zoning meeting, and must secure a
road agreement with the County Commission to compensate the County for
additional wear on the roads.
   Single-family dwellings; provided, that a second dwelling for the household
of an employee or seasonal laborer, or members of the owner's family, may be
allowed on the same lot. All structures shall conform to height, setback and
health requirements.
   Stands for the sale of produce grown on the premises.
   Swine husbandry units.
   Telecommunication site/facility.
   Temporary worker housing facilities in the A-20 District as provided in
section 9-17-15 of this title. (Ord. 2023-07, 10-17-2023)
9-5A-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty-five feet (35').
(Ord. 2023-07, 10-17-2023)
9-5A-5: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
District Area (Acres) Width (Feet) Yards In Feet
                                   Front Side Rear
A-10     10           300          30    20   25
A-20     20           300          30    20   25
A-20 FM  20           300          30    20   25
 
(Ord. 2023-07, 10-17-2023)
9-5A-6: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Private Garage And Accessory Buildings: Private garages and accessory
buildings shall be located behind the main building and have a rear yard of
five feet (5'), except that where a corner lot rear yard borders the side yard
of an adjacent lot, the minimum rear yard for all buildings shall be ten feet
(10').
(2004 Code § 10.17.060 amd. Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
9-5A-7: QUALIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Agricultural Protections - Setbacks From Territorial City Limits And
Historical Residential Districts: All existing Agriculture Protection Zones are
exempt from any restrictions imposed within this section, or within the L-CAFO
Overlay Map set forth within section 9-10D-1. All dairy cow, veal calf and
cattle operations shall be located at least two (2) miles from the territorial
limits of any incorporated city or town. All other C-CAFO's shall be located
only within the locations set forth within the L-CAFO Overlay Map.
   B.   Conditional Use Permits: Conditional use permits shall only be issued
for a gravel pit in an agricultural zone after a bond for reclamation is posted
with the County Treasurer as per title 10, chapter 7 of this Code in the amount
of ten cents ($0.10) per cubic yard as determined by the dimensions of the
proposed gravel pit by the conditional use permit application.
   C.   Electricity Plants: Plants for the production of electricity shall be
subject to the following distance restrictions:
      1.   Plants generating a maximum output of two hundred kilowatts (200 kW)
or less of electricity shall have no distance restriction.
      2.   Plants generating more than two hundred kilowatts (200 kW) of
electricity shall be located a distance of at least one thousand feet (1,000')
from an inhabited dwelling. These distance restrictions may be waived if the
affected owner of an inhabited dwelling gives consent in writing. Any such
consent shall accompany the conditional use permit application.
      3.   Wind generation plants shall be located a distance of at least three
thousand nine hundred sixty feet (3,960') from an inhabited dwelling. These
distance restrictions may be waived if the affected owner of an inhabited
dwelling gives consent in writing. This consent shall accompany the conditional
use permit application.
      4.   Hydroelectric generation plants shall be located at least two
hundred feet (200') from an inhabited dwelling. The distance restrictions may
be waived if the affected owner of an inhabited dwelling gives consent in
writing. Any such consent shall accompany the conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2023-07, 10-17-2023; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
ARTICLE B. AGRICULTURAL 5 DISTRICT (A-5)
SECTION:
9-5B-1: Purpose
9-5B-2: Permitted Uses
9-5B-3: Conditional Uses
9-5B-4: Height Regulations
9-5B-5: Area, Width And Yard Regulations
9-5B-6: Modifying Regulations
9-5B-7: Other Provisions
9-5B-8: Qualifying Regulations
9-5B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the agricultural districts is to preserve appropriate areas for
permanent and temporary agricultural and open space uses. Uses normally and
necessarily related to agriculture are permitted and any adverse uses to the
continuance of agricultural activity are not allowed. (Ord. 2023-07, 10-17-
2023)
9-5B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the agricultural districts include:
   Accessory solar energy systems.
   Accessory uses and buildings.
   Crop production, including pipelines for irrigation and livestock watering.
   Grazing livestock.
   Household pets.
   Hobby Farming
   Nursery and/or greenhouses.
   Private stables, corrals, chicken coops or pens.
   Tilling soil, raising crops, horticulture and gardening.
   (Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above). (Ord.
2023-07, 10-17-2023)
9-5B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses in the agricultural districts include:
   Agricultural industry or business.
   Electric transmission line.
   Home occupation, with notification to residents within five hundred feet
(500'), by letter, at least seven (7) days prior to planning and zoning
meeting.
   Livestock feed yards, corrals, silage pits and poultry pens.
   Public riding stables.
   Public use.
   Retail sales of nurseries and/or greenhouses.
   Single-family dwellings.
   Stands for the sale of produce grown on the premises. (Ord. 2023-07, 10-17-
2023)
9-5B-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty-five feet (35').
(Ord. 2023-07, 10-17-2023)
9-5B-5: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
District Area (Acres) Width (Feet) Yards In Feet
                                   Front Side Rear
A-5      5            100          30    20   25
 
(Ord. 2023-07, 10-17-2023)
9-5B-6: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Side Yards: On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street shall
be not less than twenty-five feet (25').
   B.   Private Garage and Accessory Buildings: Private garages and accessory
buildings located at least ten feet (10') behind the main building may have a
rear yard of five foot (5'), except that where a corner lot rear yard borders
the side yard of an adjacent lot, the minimum rear yard for all buildings shall
be ten feet (10').
(2004 Code § 10.17.060 amd. Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
9-5B-7: OTHER PROVISIONS:
Any feed lot, stable, corral, chicken coop or pen in which animals or fowl are
maintained shall be at least one hundred feet (100') from any street, dwelling
or public use.
(Ord. 2023-07, 10-17-2023)
9-5B-8: QUALIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Notification: Notification of a conditional use permit application
pursuant to this chapter shall be made by letter, to property owners within one
thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') (¼ mile) at least seven (7) days
prior to planning and zoning meeting.
(Ord. 2023-07, 10-17-2023; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R)
SECTION:
9-6A-1: Purpose
9-6A-2: Permitted Uses
9-6A-3: Conditional Uses
9-6A-4: Height Regulations
9-6A-5: Area, Width And Yard Regulations
9-6A-6: Modifying Regulations
9-6A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R districts is to provide areas for medium and low density,
single-family neighborhoods of spacious and uncrowded character. (2004 Code §
10.19.010; amd. 2015 Code)
9-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the residential districts include:
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the permitted uses
allowed herein.
Household pets.
Single-family dwellings.
Tilling the soil, raising crops, horticulture and gardening. (2004 Code §
10.19.020; amd. 2015 Code)
9-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses in the residential districts include:
Cemetery.
Child daycare or nursery.
Church.
Cluster subdivision of single-family dwellings; provided, that the residential
density is not increased to allow more than one dwelling for each parcel which
is seventy five percent (75%) of the square feet required by the district for
single-family dwellings, and that the total area of the subdivision cluster be
not less than five (5) acres, and at least one-third (1/3) of the total area of
the subdivision be reserved or dedicated as a permanent open space for common
use of the residents, under planned unit development approval.
Golf course.
Home occupation.
Private recreational grounds and facilities, not open to the general public,
and to which no admission charge is made.
Public use.
Residential facility for troubled youth, providing it meets the following:
   A.   Conforms to current applicable health, safety and building codes;
   B.   Is capable of use as a residential facility for troubled youth without
structural or landscaping alterations that would change the structure's
residential character;
   C.   Is occupied on a twenty four (24) hour per day basis by two (2) or
fewer troubled youth in a family type arrangement under the supervision of a
house family or manager;
   D.   Includes only occupants from a placement agency or organization who
will cooperate with the head law enforcement agent or other mutually agreeable
representative of the county in making confidential disclosure on an ongoing
basis of the identity and/or background of all occupants where such information
is requested by the planning commission or county commission in order to assist
it in any decision regarding a conditional use permit hereunder;
   E.   Is not occupied by any youth who has previously been found guilty as a
juvenile of a moral turpitude or sex related offense;
   F.   Is not located within three-fourths (3/4) mile of another existing
facility for troubled youth, elderly or handicapped, or within three-fourths
(3/4) mile of a public or private school, church, public library, public
playground or park, measured in a straight line from the nearest entrance of
the proposed home to the nearest property boundary of the other existing
facility, school, church, library, playground or park;
   G.   Provides twenty four (24) hour per day supervision of the residents by
a qualified adult of the same sex and at least ten (10) years older than the
oldest youth resident.
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above. (2004 Code §
10.19.030; amd. Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010; 2015 Code)
9-6A-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty five feet (35'),
and no dwelling structure shall be erected to a height less than one story.
(2004 Code § 10.19.040)
9-6A-5: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
District Area (Square Feet) Width (Feet) Yards In Feet
                                         Front Side      Rear
R-10     10,000             80           25    8 and 10  10
R-12     12,000             80           25    8 and 10  10
R-20     20,000             100          25    10 and 10 10
 
(2004 Code § 10.19.050; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
9-6A-6: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Side Yards: Main buildings, other than dwellings, shall have a minimum
side yard of twenty feet (20') and the total of the two (2) side yards shall be
not less than forty feet (40'). Private garages and other accessory buildings
shall be located behind the main building and have a side yard of five feet
(5'), except that the street side yard of a corner lot shall be the same as the
front yard setback required for that district.
   B.   Rear Yards: Private garages and accessory buildings shall be located
behind the main building and have a rear yard of five feet (5') ; provided,
that on corner lots rearing on the side of another lot, the minimum rear yard
for all buildings shall be the same as the minimum side yard requirement of the
zoning district.
(2004 Code § 10.19.060 amd. Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
ARTICLE B. RESIDENTIAL ESTATES DISTRICT (RE)
SECTION:
9-6B-1: Purpose
9-6B-2: Permitted Uses
9-6B-3: Conditional Uses
9-6B-4: Height Regulations
9-6B-5: Area, Width And Yard Requirements
9-6B-6: Modifying Regulations
9-6B-7: Other Provisions
9-6B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the residential estates districts are to promote and preserve in
appropriate areas conditions favorable to large lot family life, the keeping of
limited numbers of animals and fowl, and reduced requirements for public
utilities. This district is intended to be primarily residential in character
and protected from encroachment by commercial, industrial and commercial
agricultural uses. (2004 Code § 10.18.010)
9-6B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the residential estates districts include:
Household pets.
Private stables, corrals, chicken coops or pens.
Raising of animals and fowl for recreation or for the production of family food
for the use of the person living on the premises, except no livestock shall be
raised for commercial purposes, but shall be for family use only.
Single-family dwellings.
Tilling soil, raising crops, horticulture and gardening.
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above. (2004 Code §
10.18.020; amd. 2015 Code)
9-6B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses in the residential estates districts include:
Bed and breakfast.
Churches and schools.
Electric substation.
Grazing livestock.
Home occupations.
Kennels.
Nurseries or greenhouses, excluding any building or structure for retail sales
separate from the greenhouse growing facility.
Parks and playgrounds.
Public stables.
Public uses.
Radio or television transmitters and relay station or tower.
Raising livestock for 4-H or FFA type projects.
Ranch buildings and structures.
Riding academies or riding rings.
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above. (2004 Code §
10.18.030; amd. Ord. 2008-03, 4-7-2008; Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010; 2015 Code;
Ord. 2016-02, 3-21-2016)
9-6B-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall be constructed to a height greater than thirty five feet
(35') and no dwelling structure shall be less than one story. (2004 Code §
10.18.040)
9-6B-5: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
 
District Area (Acres) Width (Feet) Yards In Feet
                                   Front Side      Rear
RE-.5    0.5          100          25    15 and 18 10
RE-1     1            100          25    15 and 18 10
RE-5     5            100          25    15 and 18 10
 
(2004 Code § 10.19.050; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
9-6B-6: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Side Yards: Main buildings, other than dwellings, shall have a minimum
side yard of twenty feet (20') and the total of the two (2) side yards shall be
not less than forty feet (40'). Private garages and other accessory buildings
shall be located behind the main building and have a side yard of five feet
(5'), except that the street side yard of a corner lot shall be the same as the
front yard setback required for that district.
   B.   Rear Yards: Private garages and accessory buildings shall be located
behind the main building and have a rear yard of five feet (5') ; provided,
that on corner lots rearing on the side of another lot, the minimum rear yard
for all buildings shall be the same as the minimum side yard requirement of the
zoning district.
(2004 Code § 10.19.060 amd. Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
9-6B-7: OTHER PROVISIONS:
   A.   Any stable, corral, chicken coop or pen in which animals or fowl are
maintained shall be at least one hundred feet (100') from any street, dwelling
or public use.
   B.   Animals in an RE-.5 shall be limited to not more than two (2) of the
following: horses, cattle, sheep and goats. All others must receive conditional
use permit approval from the planning commission. (2004 Code § 10.18.070)
ARTICLE C. FOREST/RECREATION RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (FR)
SECTION:
9-6C-1: Purpose
9-6C-2: Permitted Uses
9-6C-3: Conditional Uses
9-6C-4: Height Regulations
9-6C-5: Area, Width And Yard Regulations
9-6C-6: Modifying Regulations
9-6C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of forest/recreation residential district is to permit development
of identified mountain areas for recreation, seasonal residential living and
other activities, to the extent compatible with the protection of the natural
and scenic resources of the area for the benefit of present and future
generations. (2004 Code § 10.20.010)
9-6C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the forest/recreation residential district include:
   Household pets.
   Single-family dwellings.
   Tilling the soil, raising crops, timber harvesting, horticulture and
gardening.
   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above.
   Grazing of livestock, excluding swine.
   Agriculture and pasturing of livestock, except swine.
   Summer homes/cabins. (2004 Code § 10.20.020; amd. 2015 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-
05, 9-3-2019; Ord. 20-03, - -2020)
9-6C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses in the forest/recreation residential district include:
Cluster subdivisions of single-family dwellings; provided, that the residential
density is not increased to allow more than one dwelling for each lot which is
seventy five percent (75%) of the square feet required by the district for
single-family dwellings, and that the total area of the subdivision cluster is
not less than five (5) acres, and that at least one-third (1/3) of the total
area of the subdivision is reserved or dedicated as a permanent open space for
common use of the residents, under planned unit development approval.
Private recreational grounds and facilities, not open to the general public,
and to which no admission charge is made.
Public use. (2004 Code § 10.20.030; amd. Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010; 2015 Code;
Ord. 2016-02, 3-21-2016)
9-6C-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty feet (30'), and no
dwelling structure shall be erected to a height less than one story. (2004 Code
§ 10.20.040)
9-6C-5: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
District Area (Acre) Width (Feet) Yards In Feet
                                  Front Side      Rear
FR-1     1           120          25    15 and 15 20
FR-.5    1/2         80           25    15 and 15 15
 
(2004 Code § 10.20.050; amd. Ord. 2019-05, 9-3-2019)
9-6C-6: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Side Yards: Main buildings other than dwellings shall have a minimum
side yard of twenty feet (20'), and the total of the two (2) side yards shall
be not less than forty feet (40'). Private garages and other accessory
buildings located at least ten feet (10') behind the main building may have a
side yard of two feet (2'), except that the street side yard of a corner lot
shall be the same as the front yard setback required for that district.
   B.   Rear Yards: Private garages and accessory buildings located at least
ten feet (10') behind the main building may have a rear yard of two feet (2');
provided, that on corner lots rearing on the side of another lot, the minimum
rear yard for all buildings shall be the same as the minimum side yard
requirement of the zoning district. (2004 Code § 10.20.060)
   C.   Review Of Uses Required: Due to the presence of a potential wildfire
hazard in the forest/recreation zone, all uses listed in this article shall be
reviewed by the building official in relation to the standards outlined in the
state department of natural resources, division of forestry and fire control
publication titled "Wildfire Hazards And Residential Development;
Identification, Classification And Regulation", dated 1978 or subsequent
edition. The building official may require any appropriate standard described
in the above mentioned publication as a condition of approval. The building
official shall review all building permit applications to assure compliance
with the above publication. (2004 Code § 10.20.060; amd. 2015 Code)
ARTICLE D. MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (RM)
SECTION:
9-6D-1: Purpose
9-6D-2: Permitted Uses
9-6D-3: Conditional Uses
9-6D-4: Height Regulations
9-6D-5: Area, Width And Yard Regulations
9-6D-6: Modifying Regulations
9-6D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the multiple-family residential district is to provide areas for
high residential density with the opportunity for varied housing styles and
character. (2004 Code § 10.21.010)
9-6D-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the multiple-family residential district include:
Household pets.
Single-family dwellings.
Two-family dwellings.
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above. (2004 Code §
10.21.020; amd. 2015 Code)
9-6D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses in the multiple-family residential district include:
Churches.
Cluster subdivisions, subject to planned unit development approval.
Four-family dwellings.
Home occupations.
Mobile home parks.
Other multiple-family dwellings.
Public use.
Residential facilities for persons with disabilities as per Utah Code Annotated
section 17-27a-515, as amended.
Residential facilities for the elderly.
Residential facility for foster children, other than those placed in a dwelling
unit licensed by the Utah division of family services for either basic or
specialized care, as referred to in the definition of "foster care", as defined
in section
9-1-6 of this title; provided, it meets the following criteria:
   A.   Conforms to all applicable health, safety and building codes;
   B.   Is capable of use as a residential facility for foster children without
structural or landscaping alterations that would change the structure's
residential character;
   C.   Is occupied on a twenty four (24) hour per day basis by three (3) or
fewer foster children in a family type arrangement under the supervision of a
house family or parent;
   D.   Is not occupied by troubled youth coming within the definition of
"troubled youth", as defined in section
9-1-6 of this title;
   E.   Is operated under contract with an agency certified by the Utah
department of human services with standards of placement and supervision
acceptable to the county;
   F.   Placement is not a part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation
or treatment in a correctional institution;
   G.   Supervision is provided by a qualified adult member of the family on a
twenty four (24) hour basis.
Residential facility for troubled youth, providing it meets the following:
   A.   Conforms to current applicable health, safety and building codes;
   B.   Is capable of use as a residential facility for troubled youth without
structural or landscaping alterations that would change the structure's
residential character;
   C.   Is occupied on a twenty four (24) hour per day basis by two (2) or
fewer troubled youth in a family type arrangement under the supervision of a
house family or manager;
   D.   Includes only occupants from a placement agency or organization who
will cooperate with the head law enforcement agent or other mutually agreeable
representative of the county in making confidential disclosure on an ongoing
basis of the identity and/or background of all occupants where such information
is requested by the planning commission or county commission in order to assist
it in any decision regarding a conditional use permit hereunder;
   E.   Is not occupied by any youth who has previously been found guilty as a
juvenile of a moral turpitude or sex related offense;
   F.   Is not located within three-fourths (3/4) mile of another existing
facility for troubled youth, elderly or handicapped, or within three-fourths
(3/4) mile of a public or private school, church, public library, public
playground or park, measured in a straight line from the nearest entrance of
the proposed home to the nearest property boundary of the other existing
facility, school, church, library, playground or park;
   G.   Provides twenty four (24) hour per day supervision of the residents by
a qualified adult of the same sex and at least ten (10) years older than the
oldest youth resident.
Three-family dwellings.
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above. (2004 Code §
10.21.030; amd. Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010; 2015 Code; Ord. 2016-02, 3-21-2016)
9-6D-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall be erected to a height greater than seventy five feet (75'),
and no dwelling structure shall be erected to a height of less than one story.
(2004 Code § 10.21.040)
9-6D-5: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
District Area (Square Feet) Width (Feet) Yards In Feet
                                         Front Side     Rear
RM       8,000              70           25    8 and 10 20
 
(2004 Code § 10.21.050)
9-6D-6: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Area: The minimum lot area shall be eight thousand (8,000) square feet
for each one-family dwelling, with three thousand (3,000) square feet for each
additional dwelling unit.
   B.   Side Yards: Private garages and other accessory buildings located at
least ten feet (10') behind the main buildings may have a side yard of two feet
(2'), except that the street side yard of a corner lot shall be the same as the
front yard setback required for that district.
   C.   Rear Yard: Private garages and accessory buildings located ten feet
(10') behind the main building may have a rear yard of two feet (2'); provided,
that on corner lots rearing on the side of another lot, the minimum rear yard
for all buildings shall be the same as the minimum side yard requirement of the
zoning district. (2004 Code § 10.21.060)
CHAPTER 7
MULTIPLE USE DISTRICT (MU-20)
SECTION:
9-7-1: Purpose
9-7-2: Permitted Uses
9-7-3: Conditional Uses
9-7-4: Area Regulations
9-7-5: Width, Frontage, Yard And Height Regulations
9-7-6: Modifying Regulations
9-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purposes of multiple use district are to establish areas in mountains,
hillsides, canyons, mountain valleys, deserts and other open and generally
underdeveloped lands where human habitation would be limited in order to
protect land and open space resources, and to reduce unreasonable requirements
for public utility and service expenditures through uneconomic and unwise
dispersal and scattering of population; to encourage use of the land, where
appropriate, for forestry, grazing, agriculture, mining, wildlife habitat and
recreation; to avoid excessive damage to watersheds, water pollution, soil
erosion, danger from brush land and to promote the health, convenience, order,
prosperity and general welfare of the inhabitants of the county. (2004 Code §
10.16.010)
9-7-2: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the multiple use district include:
   A.   Accessory solar energy systems.
   B.   Agriculture and pasturing of livestock, except swine.
   C.   Crop production, including pipelines for crop irrigation and livestock
watering.
   D.   Forestry, except forest industry.
   E.   Grazing livestock, excluding swine.
   F.   Accessory garages. (2004 Code § 10.16.020; amd. Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-
2010; Ord. 2010-04, 6-7-2010; 2015 Code; Ord. 2019-07, 9-3-2019; Ord. 20-03, -
-2020; Ord. 2022-02, 2-1-2022)
9-7-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses in the multiple use district include:
   Airports.
   Below grade pipelines for transporting various energy related products to
markets, including accessory uses associated to the pipeline.
   Data Center
   Drilling for any energy related products.
   Dude ranches; family vacation ranches.
   Electric substation.
   Electric transmission line.
   Forest industries, such as a sawmills, wood products plants, or others.
   Golf courses.
   Hydroelectric dams or facilities.
   Keeping, raising, slaughtering or marketing swine.
   Kennels.
   LPG gas, bulk distribution.
   Livestock and agricultural industries and businesses.
   Mines, quarries, gravel pits and crushers, concrete batching plants or
asphalt plant, oil wells or steam wells.
   Petroleum relining and related activities.
   Plants for the production of electricity, powered by whatever power source
is available.
   Private parks or recreational grounds or facilities, and private
recreational camps or resorts, including accessory or supporting dwellings or
dwelling complexes which are owned or managed by the recreational facility to
which they are accessory or are under unified control.
   Public uses.
   Public utilities.
   Radio or television transmitting and relay station and towers.
   Rail off loading sites.
   Reservoirs.
   Single-family dwellings.
   Summer homes or cabins.
   Swine husbandry units.
   Telecommunication site/facility.
   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, including
living quarters for guards or night watchmen, which buildings must be removed
upon completion or abandonment of the construction work.
   Temporary worker housing facilities as provided in section
9-17-15 of this title.
   Tire recycling facility, provided a facility is not located closer than one
mile to an inhabited dwelling, unless the owner gives permission in writing for
a lesser distance. These requirements may be modified by the Planning
Commission upon conditional use permit application.
   Two-family dwellings.
   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above.
(2004 Code § 10.16.030; amd. Ord. 2006-12, 11-13-2006; Ord. 2006-13, 11-13-
2006; Ord. 2006-17, 11-13-2006; Ord. 2007-11, 12-3-2007; Ord. 2009-01, 1-5-
2009; Ord. 2010-01, 2-16-2010; Ord. 2010-03, 5-3-2010; Ord. 2010-04, 6-7-2010;
2015 Code; Ord. 2016-02, 3-21-2016; Ord. 2021-09, 2-1-2022; Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-
2024)
9-7-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
The minimum lot area for any dwelling shall be twenty (20) acres in the MU-20
Zone. (2004 Code § 10.16.040)
9-7-5: WIDTH, FRONTAGE, YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Width, frontage, yard and height regulations shall be as required by
conditional use permit or by planned unit development approval; provided, that
no such requirement shall be less restrictive than is required to meet the
purposes of this chapter. (2004 Code § 10.16.050)
9-7-6: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Private Garages And Accessory Buildings: Private garages and accessory
buildings shall be located behind the main building and have a rear yard of
five feet (5'), except that where a corner lot rear borders the side yard of an
adjacent lot, the minimum rear yard for all buildings shall be ten feet (10').
(2004 Code § 10.16.060)
   B.   Set-Backs From Territorial City Limits And Historical Residential
Districts: All confined concentrated animal feeding operations shall be located
at least five (5) miles from the territorial limits of any incorporated city or
town and from all residential zones in Beaver County, with conditions imposed
to provide enhanced public health and safety. All confined concentrated animal
feeding operations that are in place at the time of adoption of this subsection
shall be grandfathered perpetually and allowed to make modifications to
existing building or rebuild within the size of existing building. (See map on
file in the County for setbacks.) All existing Agriculture Protection Zones
within these areas are exempt from this subsection. All other intensive
livestock operations shall be located at least two (2) miles from the
territorial limits of any incorporated city or town. (Ord. 2018-05, 6-5-2018)
   C.   Written Permission For Disposal: No swine or animal waste from swine
shall be allowed or disposed of within one mile of any structure or structures
used in conjunction with a swine husbandry unit, without first obtaining
permission, in writing, from the owner of the swine husbandry unit.
   D.   Odor, Dust, And Disease: All swine husbandry units or intensive
livestock operations shall be constructed and operated so as to minimize odor,
dust and the transmission of disease. (2004 Code § 10.16.060)
   E.   Set-Backs From Individual Dwellings (Not Contained In Areas Described
In Subsection B Above): No building or structure or enclosure used in a
confined concentrated animal feeding operation shall be constructed closer than
one mile from a dwelling on the same or adjacent lots. Structures, buildings,
waste storage or treatment facilities servicing a confined concentrated animal
feeding operation shall only be constructed outside the one mile setback
boundaries from a dwelling; however, if the owner is also the owner of the
confined concentrated animal feeding operation or with written permission by
the land owner, such structures, buildings, waste storage or treatment
facilities may be constructed no closer than one hundred feet (100') from such
a dwelling. Regarding all other intensive livestock operations, no building or
structure or enclosure housing animals or fowl shall be constructed closer than
one hundred feet (100') to a dwelling on the same or adjacent lots. Structures,
buildings, waste storage or treatment facilities servicing an intensive
livestock operation shall not be constructed closer than seven hundred fifty
feet (750') from the nearest dwelling, provided, however, if the owner is also
the owner of the intensive livestock operation, such structures, buildings,
waste storage or treatment facilities shall not be constructed closer than one
hundred feet (100') from such dwelling. (Ord. 2018-05, 6-5-2018)
   F.   Gravel Pit: Conditional use permits shall only be issued for a gravel
pit in an MU-20 Zone after a bond for reclamation is posted with the County
Treasurer as per title 10, chapter 7 of this Code, in the amount of ten cents
($0.10) per cubic yard as determined by the dimensions of the proposed gravel
pit by the conditional use permit application. (2004 Code § 10.16.060; amd.
2015 Code)
   G.   Notice: Notice of a conditional use permit issued pursuant to this
chapter may be made by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
local jurisdiction at least fourteen (14) days prior to the issuance of said
conditional use permit.
   H.   Approval: All conditional use permits for rail off loading sites for
transport of radioactive materials shall be approved by the Planning Commission
and the County Commission.
   I.   Impact Fees: The County Commission may impose impact fees to pay for
training and any equipment to detect the release of radioactive materials and
to protect or treat the inhabitants of the County from accidents or other
events associated with the proposed operation.
   J.   Radioactive Material Licenses: Any person who is required to obtain a
radioactive material license under the Radiation Control Act found in Utah Code
Annotated section 19-3-101 et seq., as amended, for a facility to be located in
the unincorporated area of the County shall also be required to obtain a
conditional use permit from the Planning Commission.
(2004 Code § 10.16.060; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose
9-8-2: Codes And Symbols
9-8-3: Use Regulations
9-8-4: Qualifying Regulations
9-8-5: Height Regulations
9-8-6: Area, Width, Frontage, Yard And Coverage Regulations
9-8-7: Improvements Required Prior To Building Permit Issuance
9-8-8: Special Conditional Use Requirements For Manufacturing And Business Park
9-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purposes of the commercial and industrial districts are:
   A.   Central Development District (CD): To provide areas in appropriate
locations for high intensity public, commercial, office and multiple-family
uses which may center in harmonious relationships based on planned development
for mutual benefit.
      1.   Any parcel larger than one acre at the time of passage of the
ordinance codified herein may be divided or developed only under planned unit
development approval.
      2.   Every conditional use permit and every planned unit development
approval shall be based primarily on how the development, as proposed in the
application, will contribute to compatibility and mutual private and public
benefits from existing, proposed and potential buildings and uses in the area;
the efficient, effective and aesthetic use of land, buildings, landscaping and
amenities; and the improvements to be made in land use, building construction
and appearance, traffic safety and control, landscaping and drainage.
   B.   Neighborhood Commercial District (C-N): To provide areas in appropriate
locations where convenience buying outlets may be established to serve
surrounding residential neighborhoods. The regulations of this district are
designed to promote a combination of retail and service facilities which in
character and scale are necessary to meet day to day needs of area residents.
   C.   Shopping Commercial District (C-S): To provide areas in appropriate
locations where a combination of businesses, commercial, entertainment and
related activities may be established, maintained and protected. The
regulations of this district are designed to promote and encourage the
development of comparison shopping centers.
   D.   Highway Commercial District (C-H): To provide areas in appropriate
locations adjacent to highways or major streets where activities dependent upon
or catering to thoroughfare traffic and the traveling public may be
established, maintained and protected. The regulations of this district are
designed to encourage harmony between traffic needs and centers for retail
commercial, entertainment, automotive facilities, and other appropriate highway
related activities.
   E.   General Commercial District (C-G): To provide areas in appropriate
locations where a combination of business, commercial, entertainment and
related activities may be established, maintained and protected. Regulations of
this district are designed to provide a suitable environment for those
commercial and service uses which are vital to economic life, but some of which
would be intrusive and disruptive in a shopping center type of commercial
development.
   F.   Manufacturing - Distribution (M-D): To provide areas in appropriate
locations where light manufacturing, industrial processes and warehousing not
producing objectionable effects may be established, maintained and protected.
The regulations of this district are designed to protect environmental quality
of the district and adjacent areas.
   G.   Manufacturing - Distribution - Business Park (MD-B): To provide areas
in appropriate locations where administrative offices, professional service,
light manufacturing, industrial processes and warehousing can locate. Also
providing for retail sales areas incidental to the types of uses allowed in the
MD-B zone. The regulations of this district are intended to protect the
environment and quality of life of our citizens. The MD-B zone is to provide
for smaller lots, lower the ratio between open land area and building area, and
provide for business park environment.
   H.   General Industrial District (I-G): To provide for areas in appropriate
locations where heavy industrial processes necessary to the economy may be
conducted. The regulations of this district are designed to protect
environmental quality of the district and adjacent areas.
(2004 Code § 10.22.010; amd. 2015 Code; Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
9-8-2: CODES AND SYMBOLS:
In the following sections of this chapter, uses of land or buildings which are
allowed in various districts are shown as:
   A.   Permitted uses, indicated by a "P" in the appropriate column;
   B.   Conditional uses, indicated by a "C" in the appropriate column; (2004
Code § 10.22.020)
   C.   Conditional uses of retail sales of items manufactured and sold at the
business location at a wholesale rate, where sale of the wholesale item is
incidental to primary business operations, indicated by a "*" in the
appropriate column; (2004 Code § 10.22.020; amd. 2015 Code)
   D.   If a use is not allowed in a given district, it is either not named in
the use list or it is indicated in the appropriate column by a dash "-".
   E.   If a regulation applies in a given district, it is indicated in the
appropriate column by a numeral to show the linear or square feet required, or
by a letter "A". If the regulation does not apply, it is indicated in the
appropriate column by a dash "-". (2004 Code § 10.22.020)
9-8-3: USE REGULATIONS:
No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall
be hereafter erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained in the
commercial and industrial districts, except as provided in this chapter. Uses
and buildings customarily incidental to uses authorized by conditional use
permit in any district are also authorized by issuance of a conditional use
permit in any such district.
   CD C-N C-S C-H C-G M-D MD-B I-G
                                                CD C-N C-S C-H C-G M-D MD-B I-G
Agricultural:
 Agricultural industries                       C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
 The tilling of the soil, the raising of       P  C   P   P   P   P   P    P
  crops, horticulture and gardening
Commercial:
 Accessory solar energy systems                P  P   P   P   P   P   P    P
 Communication - radio and television          C  -   C   C   P   -   C    -
  communication facilities
 Entertainment:
  Drive-in theaters                           C  -   C   C   P   -   -    -
  Legitimate theaters                         C  -   -   -   P   -   -    -
  Motion picture theaters                     C  -   P   C   P   -   -    -
  Other sports assembly                       C  -   -   -   C   -   -    -
  Racetracks (commercial)                     C  -   -   -   P   -   -    -
  Sports activities facilities                C  C   C   C   P   C   C    -
 Industrial-commercial contract printing       P  -   -   -   P   P   P    P
 Residential, hotels, tourist courts and       C  -   C   P   C   -   -    -
  motels:
  Recreation vehicle parks                    C  -   C   P   C   -   -    -
  Rooming and boarding houses                 C  -   C   C   C   -   -    -
 Retail trade:
  Antiques and secondhand merchandise -       P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
    retail
  Auto/truck/implement sales                  P  -   P   -   P   -   *    P
  Bakeries - retail                           P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Books and stationery - retail               P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Candy, nuts and confectionery - retail      P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Children's and infant's wear - retail       P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Custom tailoring                            P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Dairy products - retail                     P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Department stores retail                    P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Direct selling organization - retail        P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Drinking places (alcoholic beverages)       P  -   C   -   P   -   -    -
  Drive-in restaurants                        C  C   C   P   P   C   -    P
  Drug and proprietary                        C  C   P   -   P   -   -    -
  Eating places (food consumed on premises)   P  C   P   P   P   *   *    P
  Electrical goods - retail                   P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Family clothing - retail                    P  C   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Farm and garden supplies - retail           C  C   P   -   P   -   *    P
  Farm equipment - retail                     C  -   P   -   P   *   *    -
  Fruits and vegetables - retail              P  -   P   P   P   -   *    -
  Furniture, home furnishings and equipment - P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
    retail
  Furriers and fur apparel                    P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Gasoline service stations                   C  C   C   P   C   C   -    P
  Groceries (with or without meat) - retail   P  C   P   P   P   -   *    -
  Heating and plumbing equipment - retail     P  -   -   -   P   *   *    -
  Household appliance - retail                P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Ice cream establishments                    P  -   P   P   P   -   *    -
  Jewelry - retail                            P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Limited price variety stores - retail       P  -   P   -   P   -   -    -
  Liquor - retail - package                   C  -   P   -   P   -   -    -
  Lumber and other building materials -       C  -   P   -   P   *   *    C
    retail
  Mail order house                            P  C   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Meats and fish - retail                     P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Men's and boys' clothing and furnishing -   P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
    retail
  Merchandise vending machine operators       P  C   P   P   P   *   *    P
    retail
  Motor vehicles - retail (see Auto/truck/    C  -   P   -   P   *   *    P
    implement sales)
  Other retail trade apparel and accessories  P  -   C   -   C   -   *    -
  Other retail trade - i.e., automotive,      C  -   C   -   C   *   *    -
    marine craft, aircraft and accessories
  Paint, glass and wallpaper - retail         P  -   P   -   P   *   *    -
  Radios, television and music supplies -     P  -   P   -   P   *   *    -
    retail
  Shoes - retail                              P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Sporting goods and bicycles - retail        P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Tires, batteries and accessories - retail   P  -   P   P   P   *   *    P
  Women's accessory and specialties - retail  P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
  Women's ready to wear - retail              P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
 Services:
  Administration office services              P  -   P   -   P   P   P    -
  Advertising services                        P  -   C   -   P   *   P    -
  Animal clinics and hospitals                C  -   P   -   P   -   *    C
  Apparel repair, alteration and cleaning,    P  C   P   -   P   P   *    P
    pick up services, shoe repair services
  Automatic car wash, truck wash              C  C   C   P   P   -   -    P
  Automobile/truck/implement repair and       C  C   C   P   P   *   *    P
    services
  Automotive Salvage Yard                     -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
  Banking and bank related functions          P  -   P   P   P   -   P    -
  Beauty and barber shops                     P  C   P   P   P   -   P    -
  Carpeting and other floor coverings         P  -   C   -   -   P   *    -
  Comprehensive healthcare facilities         C  -   C   -   P   -   -    -
    (centers)
  Construction builders                       C  -   -   -   P   P   C    P
  Consumer and mercantile credit reporting    P  -   C   -   P   -   *    -
  Credit services (other than banks)          P  -   P   -   P   *   C    P
  Dental laboratory services                  P  -   P   -   P   *   P    P
  Dentist offices                             P  C   P   -   P   -   C    -
  Duplicating mailing services, stenographic  P  -   -   -   P   C   C    P
    services
  Dwelling and other building maintenance     P  -   C   -   P   -   *    -
  Electrical services                         P  -   C   -   P   P   *    P
  Employment services                         P  -   P   -   P   -   P    -
  Funeral and crematory services              P  -   C   -   P   -   -    -
  General contract construction services      C  -   -   -   P   C   C    P
  Holding and investment services             P  -   P   -   P   -   P    -
  Insurance carriers, agents, brokers and     P  -   P   -   P   -   P    -
    services
  Laundering, dry cleaning, and dyeing        P  C   P   C   P   C   C    P
    services
  Medical clinics outpatient services         C  -   P   -   P   -   -    -
  Medical laboratory services                 C  -   -   -   P   C   C    P
  Medical offices                             P  C   P   -   P   -   C    -
  News syndicate services                     P  -   -   -   P   -   C    -
  Other personal services                     C  C   C   -   C   -   *    -
  Other professional services                 C  -   C   -   C   -   *    -
  Painting, wall coverings and decorating     P  -   C   -   P   P   *    P
    services
  Photographic services                       P  C   P   C   P   *   *    C
  Plumbing, heating, and air conditioning     P  -   C   -   P   *   *    P
    services
  Private clubs                               C  -   C   -   P   -   -    -
  Professional health and care offices and    C  C   P   -   P   -   C    -
    clinics
  Real estate agents, brokers, and management P  -   P   -   P   -   *    -
    services
  Real estate subdividing and land developing P  -   P   -   P   P   C    P
    services
  Roofing and sheet metal service             P  -   C   -   P   *   *    P
  Schools (commercial)                        C  C   C   -   P   -   C    -
  Security services and commodity brokers,    C  -   -   -   P   -   *    -
    dealers exchanges and services
  Storage units (nonhazardous materials)      C  -   -   C   -   C   C    C
 Transportation bus terminals, stations, etc.: P  C   C   P   P   P   P    P
  Hard surface parking, commercial            C  -   C   C   C   P   P    C
  Marine terminals                            C  C   C   C   C   -   -    C
  Private garage                              C  C   C   C   C   C   C    C
  Railroad terminals and operations yard      C  -   -   -   C   P   P    P
  Structure parking                           C  -   C   C   C   C   C    C
Industrial:
 Chemical and plastics manufacturing:
  Agricultural chemicals - manufacturing      -  -   -   -   -   C   -    C
  Drug manufacturing                          C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
  Industrial inorganic chemicals -            C  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
    manufacturing
  Miscellaneous plastic products -            C  -   -   -   -   C   -    C
    manufacturing
  Paints, varnishes, lacquers, enamels, all   C  -   -   -   -   C   -    C
    allied products - manufacturing
    Plastics materials and synthetic resins,
  synthetic and other manmade fibers (except  C  -   -   -   -   C   -    C
    glass) - manufacturing
    Soap, detergents and cleaning preparations,
  perfumes, cosmetic and other toilet         C  -   -   -   -   C   -    C
    preparations - manufacturing
 Energy:
  Drilling for energy - related products      C  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
 Fabricated textile products:
  Dyeing and finishing of textiles (except    C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
    wool fabrics and knit goods)
  Knit goods manufacturing                    C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
    Manufacturing broad and narrow woven
  fabrics and other small wares (cotton,      C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
    manmade fibers, silk and wool)
    manufacturing
  Wearing apparel and accessories             C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
    manufacturing
  Yarns and threads manufacturing             C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
 Food products manufacturing:
  Baker products - manufacturing              C  -   C   C   C   *   *    C
  Beverage - manufacturing                    C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
  Canning and preserving of fruits,           C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
    vegetables, meat and seafood
  Confectionery and related products          C  -   C   C   C   *   *    C
  Dairy products manufacturing                C  -   C   C   C   *   *    C
  Grain mill products manufacturing           C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
  Meat products manufacturing                 C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
  Sugar - manufacturing                       C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
 Furniture products - manufacturing:
  Furniture - manufacturing                   C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
  Partitions, shelving, lockers, office and   C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
    store fixtures - manufacturing
  Wooden containers manufacturing             C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
 Industrial services:
  Concrete services and batch plants          C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
  General contract construction services      C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
  Masonry, stonework, tile setting, and       C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    plastering services
  Roofing and sheet metal services            C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
  Water and well drilling services            C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
 Machine products manufacturing:
  Electrical machinery, equipment and         -  -   -   -   -   -   -    -
    supplies - manufacturing
    Engineering, laboratory and scientific and
  research instruments and associated         C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    equipment manufacturing
    Instruments for measuring, controlling and
  indicating physical characteristics -       C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    manufacturing
  Machinery (except electrical) -             C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    manufacturing
  Ordnances and accessories                   C  -   -   -   -   C   -    C
  Transportation equipment - manufacturing    C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
 Metallic products manufacturing:
  Blast furnaces, steel works and the rolling -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
    finishing of ferrous metals, etc.
  Iron and steel foundries                    -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
  Nonferrous foundries                        -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
  Primary smelting and refining of nonferrous -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
    metals
  Rolling, drawing and extruding nonferrous   -  -   -   -   -   C   -    C
    metals
  Secondary smelting and refining of          -  -   -   -   -   -   -    -
    nonferrous metals and alloys
 Mining:
  Chemical and fertilizers (mineral) mining   -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
  Coal mining                                 -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
  Crude petroleum and natural gas             -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
  Dimension stone                             -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
  Land excavations                            -  C*  C*  C*  C*  C*  C*   C*
  Metal ore mining                            -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
    (* see qualifying regulations)
  Other mining and quarrying of nonmetallic   -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
    minerals (except fuels)
  Outdoor storage auto wrecking yards         -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
  Sand and gravel - quarrying                 C* -   -   -   -   -   -    C*
  Wrecking yards                              -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
 Nonmetallic products manufacturing:
  Abrasive and miscellaneous nonmetallic      -  -   -   -   -   C   -    C
    mineral products - manufacturing
  Cement (hydraulic) - manufacturing          -  -   -   -   -   C   -    C
  Concrete, gypsum and plaster products -     -  -   -   -   -   C   -    C
    manufacturing
  Glass and glassware (pressed or blow) -     C  -   -   -   -   C   -    C
    manufacturing
  Plate glass manufacturing                   -  -   -   -   -   C   -    C
  Structural clay products - manufacturing    -  -   -   -   -   C   -    C
 Other products manufacturing:
  Motion picture production                   C  -   -   -   C   C   C    C
  Pottery and related products -              C  -   C   -   C   C   C    C
    manufacturing
 Paper products manufacturing:
  Bookbinding and related industrial -        C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
    manufacturing
  Books: publishing and printing              C  -   -   -   C   *   *    C
  Building paper and building board -         C  -   -   -   -   *   *    P
    manufacturing
    Converted paper and paperboard products
  (except containers and boxes) -             C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
    manufacturing
  Newspapers: publishing and printing         C  -   -   -   C   *   *    C
  Paperboard containers and boxes -           C  -   -   -   -   *   *    C
    manufacturing
  Periodicals: publishing and printing        C  -   -   -   C   *   *    C
  Printing trade services                     C  -   C   -   C   C   C    C
 Petroleum products manufacturing:
  Paving and roofing materials -              C  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
    manufacturing
  Petroleum refining                          -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
  Rubber footwear                             C  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
  Tires and inner tubes - manufacturing       C  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
 Precision instrument and jewelry -
  manufacturing:
    Costume jewelry, costume novelties, buttons
  and miscellaneous notions (except precious  C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    metals) - manufacturing
  Jewelry, silverware and plated ware         C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
  Musical instruments and parts -             C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    manufacturing
  Ophthalmic goods - manufacturing            C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
  Optical instruments and lenses -            C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    manufacturing
  Pens, pencils and other office and artists' C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    materials - manufacturing
  Photographic equipment and supplies -       C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    manufacturing
  Surgical, medical and dental instruments    C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    and supplies - manufacturing
  Toys, amusements, sporting goods and        C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    athletic goods - manufacturing
  Watches, clocks, clockwork operated devices C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    and parts - manufacturing
 Transportation:
  Staging for trucking, local and long        C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    distance
 Wholesale trade and warehousing:
  Drugs, chemicals, and allied products       C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
  Dry goods and apparel                       C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
  Electrical goods                            C  -   -   C   -   C   C    C
  Farm products                               C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
  Groceries and related products              C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
  Hardware, plumbing, heating, equipment, and C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    supplies
  Machinery, equipment and supplies           C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
  Motor vehicles and automotive equipment     C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
  Research and development                    C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
  Warehousing and storage service             C  -   -   C   -   C   C    C
 Wood and paper manufacturing:
  Millwork, veneer, plywood and prefabricated C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    structural wood products - manufacturing
  Paper (except building paper) -             C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
    manufacturing
  Paperboard - manufacturing                  C  -   -   -   -   C   C    C
  Pulp manufacturing                          C  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
  Sawmills and planing mills                  C  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
Institutional (nonprofit):
 Educational services:
  Special training and schooling              C  C   C   -   C   C   C    C
 Entertainment, recreation and open space
  group or organized camps:
  Gymnasiums and athletic clubs               C  C   C   -   P   -   -    -
  Marinas                                     C  C   -   C   -   -   -    -
  Parks - general recreation                  C  P   P   P   C   -   -    -
  Parks - leisure and ornamental              C  P   P   P   P   C   -    P
  Play lots or tot lots                       C  C   C   C   C   -   -    -
  Playgrounds                                 C  C   C   C   C   -   -    -
  Racetracks                                  C  -   -   -   -   -   -    -
  Recreation centers (general)                C  C   C   C   C   -   -    -
  Swimming pools                              C  C   C   C   -   -   -    -
 Government services:
  Correction institutions                     -  -   -   -   C   C   C    C
  Executive, legislative and judicial         C  C   C   C   C   C   C    C
    functions
  Postal services                             C  C   C   C   C   C   C    C
  Protective functions and related activities C  C   C   C   C   C   C    C
 Health services:
  Hospital services                           C  -   C   -   C   -   -    -
  Sanatoriums, convalescent, and rest home    C  -   -   -   C   -   -    -
    services
 Public:
  Art galleries                               C  -   P   -   C   -   -    -
  Fairgrounds                                 C  -   -   -   -   -   -    -
  Libraries                                   C  P   P   -   C   -   -    C
  Museums                                     C  -   -   -   C   -   -    -
  Nature exhibitions                          C  -   -   -   C   -   -    -
  Public assembly, miscellaneous purposes     C  -   -   -   -   -   -    -
  Public information centers                  C  -   P   P   P   C   C    -
 Religious and welfare services:
  Churches, synagogues, and temples           C  C   C   C   C   C   C    C
  Welfare and charitable services             C  C   C   C   C   C   C    C
 Residential:
  Religious quarters                          C  C   -   -   C   -   -    -
  Retirement homes and orphanages             C  -   -   -   C   -   -    -
 Streets:
  Alleys                                      C  C   C   C   C   C   C    C
  Freeways                                    C  C   C   C   C   -   -    C
  Streets, private                            C  C   C   C   C   C   C    C
  Streets, public                             C  C   C   C   C   C   C    C
Kennels                                         C  -   -   -   -   -   -    -
Land developments:
 Subdivision:                                  C  C   C   C   C   C   C    C
  Planned unit developments                   C  C   C   C   C   C   C    C
Utilities:
 Communication:
  Telegraph                                   C  C   C   -   -   C   C    -
  Telephone                                   C  C   C   -   -   C   C    -
 Utilities - lines and rights of way:
  Culinary water                              C  -   -   -   -   P   P    P
  Electricity (substations or facilities for) C  -   -   -   -   P   P    P
  Industrial pretreatment                                        C   C
  Irrigation water                            C  -   -   -   -   P   P    P
  Natural gas                                 C  -   -   -   -   P   P    P
  Pipelines (oil and gas transmission)        C  -   -   -   -   -   -    P
  Sewage disposal                             -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
  Solid waste disposal                        -  -   -   -   -   -   -    C
 
(2004 Code § 10.22.030; amd. Ord. 2019-07, 9-3-2019; Ord. 2022-04, 6-7-2022;
Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
9-8-4: QUALIFYING REGULATIONS:
Conditional use permits shall only be issued for sand and gravel - quarrying
and land excavations in any commercial or industrial zone after a bond for
reclamation is posted with the county treasurer as per title 10, chapter 7 of
this code in the amount of ten cents ($0.10) per cubic yard as determined by
the dimensions of the proposed quarrying operation by the conditional use
permit application. (2004 Code § 10.22.031)
9-8-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
The maximum height for all buildings and structures in districts regulated by
this chapter shall be:
 
                     CD C-N C-S C-H C-G M-D MD-B M-G
In feet              35 35  35  35  35  35  35   C
                     C        C   C   C        
In number of stories C  2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5  2.5
                     -  -   C   C   C   -   -    C
 
(2004 Code § 10.22.040)
9-8-6: AREA, WIDTH, FRONTAGE, YARD AND COVERAGE REGULATIONS:
The minimum depth and/or length for yards in the districts regulated by this
chapter shall be:
 
           CD C-N      C-S     C-H C-G M-D MD-B M-G
Front yard C1 20       C1      20  C1  C1  C1   C1
Rear yard  C1 C1       C1      C1  C1  C1  C1   C1
Side yard  C1 C1       C1      C1  C1  C1  C1   C1
Area       C1 0.5 acre 20 Ksq' C1  C1  C1  C1   C1
   
Note:
   1.   Based on configuration and placement of building on lot.
(2004 Code § 10.22.050)
9-8-7: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED PRIOR TO BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE:
Improvements are to be in compliance with standards adopted by the local
jurisdiction:
 CD C-N C-S C-H C-G M-D MD-B M-G
                                      CD C-N C-S C-H C-G M-D MD-B M-G
Street grading                        A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
Street base                           A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
Street dust treatment (oil or similar A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
treatment)
Street paving                         A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
Curb and gutter                       A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
Sidewalk                              A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
Surface drainage facilities           A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
Wastewater disposal facilities        A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
Culinary water facilities             A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
Firefighting facilities               A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
Street name signs                     A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
Street monuments                      A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
Survey monuments boxes                A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
Shade trees (along public streets)    A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
Streetlights                          A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
Address numbers                       A  A   A   A   A   A   A    A
 
(2004 Code § 10.22.060)
9-8-8: SPECIAL CONDITIONAL USE REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURING AND BUSINESS
PARK:
These requirements must be adhered and/or considered for construction inside
the commercial and manufacturing districts, and are required in the M-D and MD-
B zones:
   A.   Mechanical Equipment: Mechanical equipment must be screened from
adjacent properties and public streets.
   B.   Building Materials: Similar building materials to be used on all sides
of the building. The objective is to eliminate a "front door" and a "back door"
image.
   C.   Outdoor Storage: All outdoor storage of equipment and materials, if
allowed, must be screened from adjacent properties and public streets.
   D.   Multi-Tenant Design: Multi-tenant speculative building must be designed
to accommodate tenant signage.
   E.   Metal Buildings: Plans that provide for metal clad buildings shall be
approved only at the discretion of the redevelopment agency. They will not
detract from the general aesthetics of the business park.
   F.   Utilities: All utilities are or will be underground, and each developer
or owner is responsible for having all utilities for future development
underground. (2004 Code § 10.22.070)
   G.   Noise: No use shall emit or cause the admission of sound from a
stationary source, such that one hour equivalent south level (L subheading EQ)
of the resulted sound measurement at the lot line of the establishment or use
exceeds by six (6) dBA, or more than one hour equivalent south (L subheading
EQ) caused by ground transportation as estimated for that point of measurement
and that time of day, pursuant to highway traffic noise prediction model, or by
other techniques at least as accurate as those set out in the highway traffic
noise prediction model. The sound level measuring instrumentation shall conform
with ANSI S 1.4-1971 type 1, and the measurement shall be compatible with that
according to ANSI S 1.13-1971, with the following adjustments: (2004 Code §
10.22.070; amd. 2015 Code)
      1.   Adjustment for the temporal and tonal quality such as a whine,
screech, buzz or hum, or if the sound has an audible sickly variation in sound
level, such as the beating or other amplitude modulation, five (5) dBA shall be
added to the measured sound level to allow for the increased subjective
response to the sound.
      2.   Steady implosive sound. Where the sound is of a repetitive impulse
nature, so that a steady reading is obtained using the "slow response" setting
on the sound level meter, then ten (10) dBA shall be added to the measured
value to allow for the increased subjective response to the sound.
      3.   An adjustment may be made to only one of the subsections stated
above. In the case where both subsections apply, then subsection G2 of this
section takes effect. No use shall emit or cause or permit the emission of
sound of any impulsive nature from a stationary source such that it results in
an impulsive sound level at a point of measurement in excess of eighty (80) dBA
or in a one hour equivalent level (L subheading EQ) exceeding that one hour
equivalent level (L subheading EQ) caused by ground transportation as estimated
for that point of measurement and that time of day, pursuant to FHWA-RD-77-108
or the equivalent method.
   H.   Vibration: No vibration (other than from transportation facilities or
temporary construction work) shall be permitted which is noticeable without
instruments.
   I.   Odors: No emission of odorous gases or other odorous matter shall be
permitted in such quantities as to be readily detectable when diluted in the
ratio of one volume of odorous air to four (4) volumes of clean air at the
points of measurements taken at the lot line of the use or establishment. Any
process which may involve the creation or emission will be maintained if the
primary safeguard system shall fail.
   J.   Air Pollution: No particulate or gaseous pollutants shall be emitted
into the air in violation of the Utah state air conservation act, its
amendments, or resulting regulations.
   K.   Liquid Or Solid Waste: No discharge at any point into a public sewer,
public waste disposal system, private sewer or stream, or into the ground,
contrary to the Utah state water pollution control act, its amendments,
subsequent wastewater disposal regulations or the state code of solid waste
disposal regulations.
   L.   Landscape Guidelines And Requirements: It is the intent of the master
plan that property landscaping be maintained at the high level of quality. To
do so requires cooperation and good faith of all tenants, developers, landscape
architects, engineers and above all, owners:
      1.   Tree Distribution: In order to maintain the parklike atmosphere
intended for the business park, it is recommended that approximately thirty
(30) trees to an acre of landscaped area should be used as a minimum standard
of developing planting plans. A judicious mix of evergreens and deciduous trees
is recommended. Tree sizes shall conform to the table.
      2.   Signage: No deciduous trees of less than one and one-half inch (11/
2") caliber will be acceptable, nor will evergreen trees less than six feet
(6') in height be acceptable. It is recommended that a thirty foot (30') front
yard setback be required, that five percent (5%) of the lot area, minimum,
shall be landscaped and that signage should be limited to building signs
attached to the surface of the building, or if they are freestanding signs,
they are the monument type, no higher than four feet (4') which may be located
in the front yard setback. There shall be no freestanding pole signs or
billboards in the business park. Exemption would be directional signs,
informational signs and traffic control signs that are sized appropriately for
the task.
   M.   Building Setbacks: These are conditional based on configuration and
placement of the building on the lot:
      1.   Front Yard: Thirty feet zero inches (30'0") including parking areas
as well as buildings (100 feet 0 inches if loading docks face front yard).
      2.   Side Yard: Twenty five feet zero inches (25'0") for buildings, zero
feet zero inches (0'0") for parking and/or paved areas.
      3.   Rear Yard: Twenty five feet zero inches (25'0") for buildings, zero
feet zero inches (0'0") for parking and/or paved areas.
      4.   From Creek: Twenty five feet zero inches (25'0") for buildings, ten
feet (10') for parking or paved areas.
      5.   Building Coverage: Seventy percent (70%). (2004 Code § 10.22.070)
CHAPTER 9
PLANNED DISTRICT ZONE (P)
SECTION:
9-9-1: Purpose
9-9-2: Use Regulations
9-9-3: Permitted Uses
9-9-4: Conditional Uses
9-9-5: Site Design Regulations
9-9-6: Height Regulations
9-9-7: Area, Width And Yard Regulations
9-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to allow diversification of land uses as they
relate to each other in a physical and environmental arrangement, at the same
time, ensuring compliance with the provisions of this title. This zone is only
to be used in conjunction with the planned unit development regulations. (2004
Code § 10.23.010; amd. 2015 Code)
9-9-2: USE REGULATIONS:
Use regulations in the planned district zone include:
None. (2004 Code § 10.23.020; amd. 2015 Code)
9-9-3: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the planned district zone include:
   Accessory solar energy systems. (2004 Code § 10.23.030; amd. 2015 Code; Ord.
2019-07, 9-3-2019)
9-9-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses in the planned district zone include:
Forest/recreation uses, including:
Commercial recreation uses.
Neighborhood commercial uses, including:
Motels.
RV parks.
Recreation and open space uses.
Recreation equipment and clothing sales and rentals.
Restaurants.
Residential uses, including:
Apartments.
Condominiums.
Townhouses.
Any combination of the above uses or other uses that may be determined by the
planning commission to be in harmony with each other according to the
designated and approved development plan. (2004 Code § 10.23.040; amd. 2015
Code)
9-9-5: SITE DESIGN REGULATIONS:
Refer to chapter 18, "Planned Unit Development", of this title. (2004 Code §
10.23.050)
9-9-6: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Refer to chapter 18, "Planned Unit Development", of this title. (2004 Code §
10.23.060)
9-9-7: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
Refer to chapter 18, "Planned Unit Development", of this title. (2004 Code §
10.23.070)
CHAPTER 10
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. AIRPORT INFLUENCE DISTRICT (AI)
SECTION:
9-10A-1: Findings
9-10A-2: Title
9-10A-3: Definitions
9-10A-4: Restriction Zones Established
9-10A-5: Height Limitations
9-10A-6: Compatible Land Use Regulations
9-10A-7: Nonconforming Uses
9-10A-8: Permits
9-10A-9: Enforcement
9-10A-10: Conflicting Regulations
9-10A-11: Penalty
9-10A-1: FINDINGS:
   A.   It is hereby found that an obstruction has the potential for
endangering the lives and property of users of municipal airports and property
or occupants of land in its vicinity; that an obstruction may affect existing
and future instrument approach minimums at municipal airports; and that an
obstruction may reduce the size of areas available for the landing, takeoff and
maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to destroy or impair the utility of
municipal airports and the public investment therein. Accordingly, it is
declared:
      1.   The creation or establishment of an obstruction has the potential of
being a public nuisance and may injure the region served by the municipal
airport;
      2.   The encroachment of noise sensitive or otherwise incompatible land
uses within certain areas as set forth in this article may endanger the health,
safety and welfare of the owners, occupants or users of the land;
      3.   It is necessary in the interest of the public health, public safety
and general welfare that the creation or establishment of obstructions that are
a hazard to air navigation be prevented;
      4.   The prevention of these obstructions should be accomplished, to the
extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police power without
compensation;
      5.   Municipal airports fulfill an essential community purpose.
   B.   It is further declared that the prevention of the creation of
establishment of hazards to air navigation, the elimination, removal,
alteration or mitigation of hazards to air navigation, or the marking and
lighting of construction are public purposes for which a political subdivision
may raise and expend public funds and acquire land or interests in land. (2004
Code § 10.24)
9-10A-2: TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the BEAVER COUNTY AIRPORT
OVERLAY ZONING ORDINANCE FOR MUNICIPAL AIRPORTS. (2004 Code § 10.24)
9-10A-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
AIRPORT: Municipal airport.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: The highest point of an airport's usable landing area
measured in feet from mean sea level. This elevation is five thousand forty two
feet (5,042') MSL (NAVD 1988) as of the date of this article.
APPROACH SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
section
9-10A-5 of this article. In plan, the perimeter of the approach surface
coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.
APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL AND CONICAL ZONES: These zones are set forth
in section
9-10A-4 of this article.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: A board consisting of members appointed by the county
commissioners.
CONICAL SURFACE: A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of
the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a horizontal
distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION: An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth
in this article and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level
elevation unless otherwise specified.
HELIPORT PRIMARY SURFACE: The primary surface coincides in size and shape with
the designated takeoff and landing area of a heliport. This surface is a
horizontal plane at the elevation of the established heliport elevation.
HORIZONTAL SURFACE: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with
the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
LARGER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be
used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than twelve thousand five hundred
(12,500) pounds' maximum gross weight and jet powered aircraft.
NAVD 1988 (NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM 1988): All elevations in this article
are referenced to the 1983 North American datum. (To convert elevations
referenced from the NAVD 1988 to the 1929 national geodetic vertical datum
(NGVD 1929), subtract 3.5 feet from the NAVD 1988 elevation.)
NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth or use
of and which is inconsistent with the provisions of this article, or an
amendment thereto.
NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal guidance, or
area type navigation equipment, for which a straight in nonprecision instrument
approach procedure has been approved or planned. It also means a runway for
which a nonprecision approach system is planned and is so indicated on an
approved airport layout plan or any other planning document.
OBSTRUCTION: Any structure, growth or other object, including a mobile object,
which exceeds a limiting height set forth in section
9-10A-5 of this article.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or governmental entity. Includes a trustee, a receiver,
an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (ILS), a precision approach
radar (PAR) or a global positioning system (GPS). It also means a runway for
which a precision approach system is planned and is so indicated on an approved
airport layout plan or any other planning document.
PRIMARY SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway
has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends two hundred
feet (200') beyond each end of that runway. For military runways or when the
runway has no specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the
primary surface ends at each end of that runway. The width of the primary
surface is set forth in section
9-10A-4 of this article. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is
the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
RUNWAY: A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
STRUCTURE: An object, including mobile object, constructed or installed by man,
including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formations and overhead transmission lines.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES: These surfaces extend outward at ninety degree (90o)
angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope
of seven feet (7') horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the
primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces. Transitional surfaces for those portions of the precision
approach surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical
surface, extend a distance of five thousand feet (5,000') measured horizontally
from the edge of the approach surface and at ninety degree (90o) angles to the
extended runway centerline.
TREE: Any object of natural growth.
UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds'
maximum gross weight and less.
VISUAL RUNWAY: A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures. (2004 Code § 10.24)
9-10A-4: RESTRICTION ZONES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Maps: In order to carry out the provisions of this article, there is
hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the land
lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces
and conical surfaces as they apply to municipal airports. Such zones are shown
on the municipal airport height restriction overlay zoning map. Two (2)
original, official and identical copies of the airport height restriction
overlay zoning map reflecting the boundaries of the airport height restriction
overlay zoning districts of the county are hereby adopted, and the county
commissioners are hereby authorized to sign and attest each map as the official
"Airport Height Restriction Overlay Zoning Map Of Municipal Airports, Beaver
County, Utah", and such maps shall be filed and maintained as follows:
      1.   One copy shall be filed for permanent record in the office of the
county planning and zoning department and shall be designated as exhibit 1.
      2.   One copy shall be filed in the office of the airport manager and
shall be designated as exhibit 2.
   B.   Zones Established: An area located in more than one of the following
zones is considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height
limitation. The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
      1.   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone: The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is one
thousand feet (1,000') wide. The approach surface expands outward uniformly to
a width of sixteen thousand feet (16,000') at a horizontal distance of fifty
thousand feet (50,000') from the primary surface. The centerline of the
approach zone is the continuation of the centerline of the runway. This
criteria applies to runway 16.
      2.   Nonprecision Instrument Runway Approach Zone: The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is one
thousand feet (1,000') wide. The approach zone begins at the edge of the
primary surface and expands outward uniformly to a width of three thousand five
hundred feet (3,500') at a horizontal distance of ten thousand feet (10,000')
from the primary surface. The centerline of the approach zone is the
continuation of the centerline of the runway. This criteria applies to runway
34.
      3.   Transitional Zone: The transitional zone begins at the edge of the
primary surface and approach surface and extends horizontally perpendicular to
the runway centerline to the point where its vertical height reaches one
hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport elevation.
      4.   Horizontal Zone: The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs
of ten thousand feet (10,000') radii from the center of each end of the primary
surface of the primary runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines
tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and
transitional zones.
      5.   Conical Zone: The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000'). (2004 Code § 10.24)
9-10A-5: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Except as otherwise provided in this article, no structure shall be erected,
altered or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone created
by this article, to a height in excess of the applicable height limit herein
established for such zone. Such applicable height limitations are hereby
established for each of the zones in question as follows:
   A.   Precision instrument runway approach zone: Slopes fifty feet (50')
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of ten thousand
feet (10,000') and continues on for a distance of forty thousand feet (40,000')
at a slope of forty feet (40') outward for each foot upward along the extended
runway centerline.
   B.   Nonprecision instrument runway approach zone: Slopes thirty four feet
(34') outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of ten
thousand feet (10,000').
   C.   Transitional zone: Slope seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface, and extending to a height of one hundred fifty feet
(150') above the airport elevation. In addition to the foregoing, there are
established height limits sloping seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach surface,
and extending to where they intersect the conical surface.
   D.   Horizontal zone: Established at one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
airport elevation or at a height of five thousand one hundred ninety two feet
(5,192') above mean sea level (MSL).
   E.   Conical zone: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one hundred fifty feet
(150') above the airport elevation (5,192 feet MSL) and extending to a height
of three hundred fifty feet (350') (5,392 feet MSL) above the airport
elevation. (2004 Code § 10.24)
9-10A-6: COMPATIBLE LAND USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Airport Compatible Land Use Overlay Zoning Districts Established: For
the purpose of regulating the development of noise sensitive land uses to
promote compatibility between the airport and the surrounding land uses, to
protect the airport from incompatible development and to promote the health,
safety and general welfare of property users, the controlled area of municipal
airports is divided into the following airport compatible land use overlay
zoning districts. The airport compatible land use overlay zoning districts
established herein shall be known as:
 
Zoning District Name   Abbreviated Designation
Airport influence area AIA
Approach zone          AZ
Runway protection zone RPZ
Traffic pattern area   TPA
 
   B.   Airport Compatible Land Use Overlay Zoning Map:
      1.   The boundaries of the airport compatible land use overlay zoning
districts set out herein are delineated upon the "Airport Compatible Land Use
Overlay Zoning District Map For Municipal Airport, Beaver County, Utah", said
airport compatible land use overlay zoning district map being adopted by
reference and made a part of this article as fully as if the same were set
forth herein in detail.
      2.   Two (2) original, official and identical copies of the airport
compatible land use overlay zoning district map reflecting the boundaries of
the airport compatible land use overlay zoning districts of municipal airports
of the county, are hereby adopted, and the county commissioners hereby
authorized to sign and attest each map as the official "Airport Compatible Land
Use Overlay Zoning District Map For Municipal Airports, Beaver County, Utah",
and such maps shall be filed and maintained as follows:
         a.   One copy shall be filed for permanent record in the office of the
planning and zoning department and shall be designated as exhibit 1.
         b.   One copy shall be filed in the office of the airport manager and
shall be designated as exhibit 2.
   C.   Airport Compatible Land Use Overlay Zoning District Boundaries:
      1.   The airport compatible land use overlay zoning district boundary
lines shown on the official airport compatible land use overlay zoning district
map shall be located and delineated along contour lines established for
municipal airports. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of the
airport compatible land use overlay zoning districts as shown on the official
map, the following rules shall apply:
         a.   Boundaries shall be scaled from the nearest physical feature
shown on the map.
         b.   Boundaries may be scaled from the nearest platted lot line as
shown on the map.
         c.   Distances not specifically indicated on the original airport
compatible land use overlay zoning district map shall be determined by a scaled
measurement on the map.
      2.   Where physical features on the ground differ from the information
shown on the official airport compatible land use overlay zoning district map
or when there arises a question as to how or where a parcel of property is
zoned and such questions cannot be resolved by the application of subsection C1
of this section, the property shall be considered to be classified as the most
restrictive airport compatible land use overlay zoning district.
      3.   Where a parcel of land lies within more than one airport compatible
land use overlay zoning district, the zone within which each portion of the
property is located shall apply individually to each portion of the
development.
   D.   Use Of Land And Buildings:
      1.   Within the airport compatible land use overlay zoning districts, as
defined herein, no land shall hereafter be used and no structure or other
object shall hereafter be erected, altered, converted or modified other than
for those compatible land uses permitted by underlying comprehensive zoning
districts, as specified in this title. Additional land uses are prohibited in
the airport compatible land use overlay zoning districts, regardless of
underlying zoning, as set forth in the compatible land use table adopted,
hereby referenced as figure A and made a part of this article as fully as if
the same were set forth herein in detail.
      2.   Where any use of prohibited land and buildings set forth in
subsection D1 of this section conflicts with any use of land and buildings set
forth in this title as an allowed use on the zoning district map, this article
shall apply.
      3.   Where the official airport compatible land use overlay zoning
district map indicates an area as being outside the limits of the county, the
prohibited uses, as set forth in subsection D1 of this section shall apply as
though the area is within the county and no structure or object shall be
erected, altered, converted or modified except to comply with uses not
prohibited by this article.
      4.   Subsection D1 of this section does not apply to property within the
official boundaries of the airport. The approved airport layout plan shall
depict approved land uses on airport property.
      5.   Where specified on the airport compatible land use table, the
property owner shall dedicate, in advance of receiving a building permit, an
aviation easement to the county. The purpose of this easement shall be to
establish a maximum height restriction on the use of property and to hold the
public harmless for any damages caused by noise, vibration, fumes, dust, fuel,
fuel particles or other effects that may be caused by the operation of aircraft
landing at, taking off from, or operating on or at public airport facilities.
   E.   Additional Land Use Regulations:
      1.   Within the county, the more restrictive of this title or subsection
D1 of this section shall apply to the development of all property covered by
the airport compatible land use overlay zoning district map.
      2.   On property within the airport compatible land use overlay zoning
district map jurisdiction, but outside the county limits, subsection D1 of this
section shall apply to the property to establish the prohibited uses, but no
other provisions of this title shall apply to this property.
      3.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article or other
provisions of this title, no use may be made of land, water or structures
within any zone established by this article in such a manner as to create
electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communication
between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to distinguish
between airport lights and others, or result in glare in the eyes of pilots
using the airport; impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport; create
bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with the
landing, taking off or flight operations of aircraft utilizing the airport.
      4.   When a subdivision plat is required for any property within an
airport compatible land use overlay zoning district or within an area shown on
the airport height restriction overlay zoning map for municipal airports, the
property owner shall dedicate a navigation easement to the county over and
across that property. This easement shall establish a height restriction on the
use of the property and hold the public harmless from any damages caused by
noise, vibration, fumes, dust, fuel, fuel particles or other effects that may
be caused by the operation of aircraft taking off, landing or operating on or
near municipal airports. (2004 Code § 10.24; amd. 2015 Code)
9-10A-7: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Regulations Not Retroactive: The regulations prescribed by this article
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other change or
alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the
effective date hereof, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of
nonconforming uses. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the
construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date hereof, and is
diligently prosecuted.
   B.   Marking And Lighting: Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the
owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to
permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon of such markers and
lights as shall be deemed necessary by the county to indicate to the operators
of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport
obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated and
maintained at the expense of the municipal airport. (2004 Code § 10.24)
9-10A-8: PERMITS:
   A.   Future Uses: Except as specifically provided in subsections A1 and A2
of this section, no material change shall be made in the use of land, no
structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall be
planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been
applied for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the
purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to
permit it to be determined whether the regulating use, structure or tree would
conform to the regulations herein prescribed. An FAA form 7460-1, notice of
proposed construction or alteration shall accompany each application. If such
determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted. No permit for
a use inconsistent with the provisions of this article shall be granted unless
a variance has been approved in accordance with subsection D of this section.
      1.   In the area lying within twenty thousand feet (20,000') of a runway,
no permit shall be required by this article for any tree or structure less than
two hundred feet (200') above ground level which is also lower than an
imaginary surface extending outward and upward at a slope of one hundred feet
(100') horizontal for each one foot (1') vertical beginning at the closest
point of the closest runway.
      2.   In the area lying beyond twenty thousand feet (20,000') of a runway,
no permit shall be required by this article for any tree or structure less than
two hundred feet (200') above ground level.
Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed as
permitting or intending to permit any construction or alteration of any
structure or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this article.
   B.   Existing Uses: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of any obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date hereof, or any amendments thereto, or than it is when the
application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for
such a permit shall be granted.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed: Whenever the county
determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned or more
than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no
permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the
applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   D.   Variances:
      1.   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this article, may apply to the board of
adjustment for a variance from such regulations. The application for variance
shall be accompanied by a determination from the federal aviation
administration as to the effect of a proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace. Such
variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or
enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief
granted, will not be contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard
to air navigation, will do substantial justice, and will be in accordance with
the spirit of this article.
      2.   Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of
this article may be considered by the board of adjustment unless a copy of the
application has been furnished to the county for advice as to the aeronautical
effects of the variance. If the county does not respond to the application
within fifteen (15) days after receipt, the board of adjustment may act on its
own to grant or deny said application.
   E.   Obstruction Marking And Lighting: Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this article
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate and maintain, at
the owner's expense, such markings and lights as a condition may be modified to
require the owner to permit the municipal airport, at its own expense, to
install, operate and maintain the necessary markings and lights. (2004 Code §
10.24)
9-10A-9: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the county to administer and enforce the regulations
prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the
county upon a form published for that purpose. Applications required by this
article to be submitted to the county shall be promptly considered and granted
or denied. Application for action by the board of adjustment shall be forthwith
transmitted by the county. (2004 Code § 10.24)
9-10A-10: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this article and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, and the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation
or requirements shall govern and prevail. (2004 Code § 10.24)
9-10A-11: PENALTY:
Each violation of this article or of any regulations, order or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a class C misdemeanor and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; and each day a violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (2004 Code § 10.24; amd. 2015 Code)
ARTICLE B. FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT (FP)
SECTION:
9-10B-1: Purpose
9-10B-2: Definitions
9-10B-3: General Provisions
9-10B-4: Permit Requirements
9-10B-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
9-10B-6: Floodways
9-10B-7: Mudslide (i.e., Mudflow) Prone Areas
9-10B-8: Flood Related Erosion Prone Areas
9-10B-9: Appeals And Variances
9-10B-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this overlay district is to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare, and to minimize hazards due to flooding in specific
areas as identified by the latest adopted flood insurance rate maps, in
addition to the following:
      1.   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      2.   To minimize the need for the rescue and relief efforts associated
with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      3.   To minimize prolonged business interruption;
      4.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      5.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      6.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
      7.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
   B.   In order to accomplish its purposes, this article includes methods and
provisions for:
      1.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion of flood heights or velocities;
      2.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
      4.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
      5.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas. (2004 Code § 10.26.010)
9-10B-2: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to those terms defined in section
9-1-6 of this title, the following definitions shall apply:
APPEAL: A request for a review of the county engineer's interpretation of any
provision of this article.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH or VO zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet (3'); a
clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See definition of Special Flood Hazard Areas
(SFHA).
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD RELATED EROSION HAZARD: An area subject to severe flood
related erosion losses. Shall be designated as zone E on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM).
AREA OF SPECIAL MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) HAZARD: The area subject to severe
mudslides (i.e., mudflows). The area is designated as zone M on the flood
insurance rate map (FIRM).
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called the "100-year flood").
FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP: The official map on which the general
emergency management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated
both the areas of flood hazard and the floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
emergency management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the FIRM, the flood boundary and
floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of floodwaters, the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface water from any source and/
or the collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body
of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of
water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually
high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or
by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal
surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in
flooding as defined in this definition.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventative measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Development code, building codes, health
regulations, special purpose ordinances (i.e., grading ordinance and erosion
control ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes
such state or local regulations in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: The operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventative measures for reducing flood damage, including, but
not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and
floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
Also referred to as "regulatory floodway".
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this article.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for sale or rent.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, structures for which the
"start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date hereof.
100-YEAR FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) annual probability of
being equaled or exceeded. It is identical to the "base flood", as defined in
this section, which will be the term used throughout this article.
REMEDY A VIOLATION: To bring the structure or other development into compliance
with state or local floodplain management regulations, or, if this is not
possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts may be
reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from
flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this article, or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS (SFHA): An area having special flood or flood
related erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM as zone A, AO, A1-30, AR,
A99, AH, VO, V1-V30, VE or V.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
      1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
   B.   For the purpose of this definition "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or a state inventory of historic places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certificates or
other evidence of compliance required in this article is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided. (2004 Code §
10.26.020; amd. 2015 Code)
9-10B-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Applicability: This article shall apply to all areas of special flood
hazard, areas of flood related erosion hazards and areas of mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) hazards within the jurisdiction of the county.
   B.   Map Adopted: The areas of special flood hazard, areas of flood related
erosion hazards and areas of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) hazards identified by the
federal emergency management agency or the federal insurance administration on
a flood insurance rate map is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this article. This flood insurance study is the minimum area of
applicability of this article and may be supplemented by studies for other
areas which allow implementation of this article and which are recommended to
the council by an engineer designated as the "county engineer".
   C.   Compliance Required; Penalty: No structure or land shall hereafter be
constructed, located, extended, converted or altered without full compliance
with the terms of this article and other applicable regulations. Violations of
the provisions of this article by failure to comply with any of its
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a class C misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
   D.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this article,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   E.   Nonliability: The degree of flood protection required by this article
is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and
engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
Flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This article does
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard, areas of flood
related erosion hazards and areas of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) hazards or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
article shall not create liability on the part of the county, any officer or
employee thereof, or the federal insurance administration, for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this article or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder. (2004 Code § 10.26.030; amd. 2015 Code)
9-10B-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: A flood control development permit shall be obtained
before construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard, areas of flood related erosion hazards or areas of mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) established in section
9-10B-3 of this article. An application for a flood control development permit
shall be made on forms furnished by the county building inspector, county
planning commission or an engineer designated by the county commission, and may
include, but not be limited to: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the
nature, location, dimensions and elevation of the area in question; existing or
proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the
location of same. Specifically, the following information is required:
      1.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures; in zone AR or VO, elevation of
highest adjacent grade and proposed elevation of lowest floor of all
structures;
      2.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
structure will be floodproofed;
      3.   All appropriate certifications listed in section
9-10B-5 of this article; and
      4.   Description of the extent to which a watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
   B.   Grant Or Denial Of Permit: The county commission, county building
inspector, or a professional engineer designated by the county commission,
acting in the capacity as the county engineer, is hereby appointed to
administer and implement this article by granting or denying flood control
development permits in compliance with its provisions.
   C.   Duties, Responsibilities: The duties and responsibilities of the county
commission, county building inspector or the county engineer, as related to
this article, shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   Review all flood control development permits to determine that
the permit requirements of this article have been satisfied;
         b.   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
         c.   The site is reasonably safe from flooding;
         d.   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of areas where base flood elevations have been determined, but the
floodway has not been designated. For purposes of this article, "adversely
affects" means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any
point.
      2.   Base Flood Elevation Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in compliance with section
9-10B-3 of this article, the county commission, county building engineer or
county engineer shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood
elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other source, in
order to administer section
9-10B-5 of this article. Any such information shall be submitted to the county
commission for adoption.
      3.   Watercourse Altered Or Relocated: Whenever a watercourse is to be
altered or relocated, the county commission or county engineer shall:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities prior to the alteration or relocation
of a watercourse and submit evidence of the notification to the federal
insurance administration;
         b.   Require that the flood carrying capacity of the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained.
      4.   Certifications, Appeals And Variances: Secure and maintain for
public inspection and availability the certifications, appeals and variances
identified in sections
9-10B-5 and
9-10B-9 of this article.
      5.   Boundaries: Make interpretations, where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard, areas of flood
related erosion hazards or areas of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) (for example,
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions). The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given
a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in section
9-10B-9 of this article.
      6.   Remedy: Take action to remedy violations of this article. (2004 Code
§ 10.26.040)
9-10B-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following standards shall apply:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      2.   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of
subsection F of this section.
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      4.   Require within zones AH, AO or VO, adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   C.   Elevation And Floodproofing:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of structures shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the base flood
elevation. Nonresidential structures shall meet the standards in subsection C3
of this section. Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the
lowest floor, including basement, shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer to be properly elevated. The certification or
verification shall be provided to the county commission or county engineer.
      2.   New construction and substantial improvement of any structure in
zone AH, AO or VO shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified
in feet on the FIRM, or at least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified.
Nonresidential structures shall meet the standards in subsection C3 of this
section. Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor, including basement, shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer, or verified by the building inspector to be properly elevated. The
certification or verification shall be provided to the county engineer.
      3.   Nonresidential construction shall either be elevated in conformance
with subsection C1, C2 or C4 of this section, or together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. The certifications shall
be provided to the county commission or county engineer.
      4.   Require, for all new construction and substantial improvements, that
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding shall
be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting
this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect to meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         a.   Either a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than
one foot (1') above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers,
valves or other coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters; or
         b.   Be certified to comply with a local floodproofing standards
approved by the federal insurance administration.
      5.   Manufactured homes shall also meet the standards in subsection F of
this section.
   D.   Standards For Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
system and discharge from systems into floodwaters.
      2.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   E.   Standards For Subdivisions:
      1.   Identify the flood hazard area and the elevation of the base flood.
      2.   All final maps shall provide the elevation of proposed structure and
pads. If the site is filled above the base flood, the final pad elevation shall
be verified by a registered engineer or surveyor and provided to the county
commission or the county engineer.
      3.   All proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage.
      4.   All proposals shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize
flood damage.
      5.   All proposals shall provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   F.   Standards For Manufactured Homes: All new and replacement manufactured
homes and additions to manufactured homes shall be constructed in the following
manner:
      1.   Be elevated so that the lowest floor is at or above the base flood
elevation; and
      2.   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse or lateral movement by providing over the top and frame ties to ground
anchors. Specific requirements include:
         a.   Over the top ties be provided at each of the four (4) corners of
the manufactured home, with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate
locations, with manufactured homes less than fifty feet (50') long requiring
one additional tie per side;
         b.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five (5)
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes less
than fifty feet (50') long requiring four (4) additional ties per side;
         c.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds; and
         d.   Any additions to the manufactured homes be similarly anchored.
(2004 Code § 10.26.050)
9-10B-6: FLOODWAYS:
   A.   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in subsection
9-10B-3B of this article are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway
is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of the floodwaters which
carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following
provisions shall apply:
Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other development unless certification by a registered
professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that encroachments
shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge.
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all other applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of section
9-10B-5 of this article. (2004 Code § 10.26.060)
9-10B-7: MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREAS:
   A.   Review: The county building inspector or county engineer shall review
permits for proposed construction or other development to determine if it is
proposed within a mudslide area.
   B.   Considerations: Permits shall be reviewed to determine that the
proposed development is reasonably safe from mudslide hazards. Factors to be
considered in making this determination shall include, but are not limited to:
      1.   The type and quality of soils;
      2.   Evidence of groundwater or surface water problems;
      3.   The depth and quality of any fill;
      4.   The overall slope of the site; and
      5.   The weight that any proposed development will impose on the slope.
   C.   Requirements With Mudslide Areas: Within areas which have mudslide
hazards, the following requirements shall apply:
      1.   A site investigation and further review shall be made by persons
qualified in geology and soils engineering.
      2.   The proposed grading, excavation, new construction and substantial
improvements shall not aggravate the existing hazard by creating either on site
or off site disturbances; and
      3.   Drainage, planting, watering and maintenance shall not endanger
slope stability. (2004 Code § 10.26.070)
   D.   Excavation, Grading And Drainage: Within zone M on the flood insurance
rate map, excavation, grading and drainage shall be constructed in compliance
with the applicable chapter of the international building code. The following
information shall be provided: (2004 Code § 10.26.070; amd. 2015 Code)
      1.   The location of foundation and utility systems of new construction
and substantial improvements;
      2.   The location, drainage and maintenance of all excavations, cuts and
fills, and planted slopes;
      3.   Protective measures, including, but not limited to, retaining walls,
fills, subdrains, diverter terraces, benchings, etc.; and
      4.   Engineering drawings and specifications to be submitted for all
corrective measures, accompanied by supporting soils engineering and geology
reports. (2004 Code § 10.26.070)
9-10B-8: FLOOD RELATED EROSION PRONE AREAS:
   A.   Development Permit Required: The county building inspector or the
county engineer shall require permits for proposed construction and other
development within all flood related erosion prone areas identified within the
county.
   B.   Review: The permits shall be reviewed to determine whether the proposed
site alterations and improvements will be reasonably safe from flood related
erosion and will not cause flood related erosion hazards or otherwise aggravate
the existing hazard.
   C.   Relocation Or Protective Measures: If a proposed improvement is found
to be in the path of flood related erosion or would increase the erosion
hazard, the improvement shall be relocated or adequate protective measures
shall be taken to avoid aggravating the existing erosion hazard. (2004 Code §
10.26.075)
9-10B-9: APPEALS AND VARIANCES:
The board of adjustment shall hear and decide appeals and requests for flood
control variances from the requirements of this article.
   A.   Appeals:
      1.   Permitted: The board shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the county commission or county engineer in the enforcement or administration
of this article.
      2.   Considerations: In passing upon such applications, the board shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this article; and
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the county;
         e.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         f.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         g.   The relationship of the proposed use to the general plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
         h.   The safety of access to the property in time of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         i.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
         j.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water system, and streets and
bridges.
   B.   Variances:
      1.   Historic Structures: Variances may be issued for the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed in the national register of
historic places, without regard to the procedures identified in the remainder
of this section.
      2.   Permitted Variances: Generally, variances may be issued for new
construction and substantial improvements to be erected on a lot one-half (1/2)
acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
structures constructed below the base flood level, providing the items in
sections
9-10B-5 through
9-10B-9 of this article have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing
the variance increases.
      3.   Prohibited Variances: Variances shall not be issued within any
designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
      4.   Variance Minimum Necessity: Variances shall only be issued upon a
determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief.
      5.   Considerations: Flood control variances shall only be issued if:
         a.   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applicable to the property involved or to the intended use of the
property, which do not apply generally to other property in the same flood
zone;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of, the
public.
      6.   Functionally Dependent Uses: Variances may be issued for new
construction and substantial improvements and for other development necessary
for the conduct of a functionally dependent use; provided, that the provisions
of sections
9-10B-5 through
9-10B-8 of this article are satisfied and that the structure or other
development is protected by methods that minimize flood damage during the base
flood and create no additional threats to public safety.
      7.   Imposition Of Conditions: Upon consideration of the factors in this
section and the purposes of this article, the commission may impose conditions
to the granting of flood control variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this article.
      8.   Notice, Recording Requirements: Any applicant to whom a variance is
granted shall be given written notice that the structure will be permitted to
be built with a lowest floor elevation below the regulatory flood elevation and
that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation. A copy of the notice shall
be recorded by the county engineer, county building inspector or the county
commission in the office of the county recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
      9.   Records, Reporting: The county commission, county building inspector
or county engineer shall maintain the records of all appeal actions and report
any variances to the federal insurance administration upon request. (2004 Code
§ 10.26.080)
ARTICLE C. SENSITIVE AREA DISTRICT (SA)
SECTION:
9-10C-1: Purpose And Intent
9-10C-2: Permitted Uses
9-10C-3: Conditional Uses
9-10C-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of the SA district is to designate and describe those areas
within the local jurisdiction that possess physical and/or environmental
characteristics which require special public consideration of use applications
which might affect the structure of the land; the management of surface or
subsurface water; safety of future land occupants due to increased fire,
earthquake or storm hazards from the proposed development; or the uneconomic
extension of public facilities and services. Of specific concern is development
in flood prone areas, earthquake zones, landslide areas, areas of steep slope
or unstable soils, and other sensitive areas requiring careful assessment prior
to alteration.
   B.   It is the intent of these regulations to permit the widest possible
latitude in the use of property, while at the same time requiring design
solutions which will avoid detrimental impacts on sensitive natural areas, as
well as provide protection from adverse natural forces and hazards. (2004 Code
§ 10.25.010)
9-10C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the SA district:
Horticulture and gardening, excluding agricultural industries.
Raising crops.
Tilling soil. (2004 Code § 10.25.020)
9-10C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The SA district is an overlay district whose sole effect is to require
additional review of proposed uses in the underlay districts. To this end, any
permitted use in a district overlaid by an SA district, with the exception of
those uses permitted in section
9-10C-2 of this article, is a conditional use. Conditional uses authorized in
districts overlaid by the SA district remain conditional uses. (2004 Code §
10.25.030)
ARTICLE D. LARGE CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION OVERLAY ZONE (L-CAFO)
SECTION:
9-10D-1: Establishment Of Large Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation (L-CAFO)
Overlay Zone
9-10D-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF LARGE CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (L-CAFO)
OVERLAY ZONE:
   A.   Definitions:
             A lot or facility where the following conditions are met: (i) animals have been,
ANIMAL       are, or will be stabled or confined and fed or maintained for a total of forty
FEEDING      five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month period; and, (ii) crops,
OPERATION:   vegetation, forage growth, or post-harvest residues are not sustained in the
             normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
             A building: (i) used as part of a business that manufactures goods, delivers
COMMERCIAL   services, or sells goods or services; (ii) customarily and regularly used by the
ENTERPRISE:  general public during the entire calendar year; and (iii) connected to electric
             or water systems. Commercial enterprise does not include an agricultural
             operation.
             A building in which any part is used: (i) for more than three (3) hours each
             weekday during a school year as a public or private elementary school, secondary
EDUCATIONAL  school, or kindergarten; (ii) a state institution of higher education as defined
INSTITUTION: in Utah Code Annotated section 53B-3-102; or (iii) private institution of higher
             education in the state accredited by a regional or national accrediting agency
             recognized by the United States Department of Education.
HEALTH CARE  The same as that term is defined in Utah Code Annotated section 26-21-2.
FACILITY:
             An animal feeding operation that stables or confines as many as or more than the
             numbers of animals in the following categories:
             1.   Seven hundred (700) mature dairy cows, whether milked or dry.
             2.   One thousand (1,000) veal cows.
             3.   One thousand (1,000) cattle other than mature dairy cows or veal calves,
             with "cattle" including heifers, steers, bulls, and cow calf pairs.
             4.   Two thousand five hundred (2,500) swine each weighing fifty five (55)
             pounds or more.
LARGE        5.   Ten thousand (10,000) swine each weighing less than fifty five (55) pounds.
CONCENTRATED 6.   Five hundred (500) horses.
ANIMAL       7.   Ten thousand (10,000) sheep or lambs.
FEEDING      8.   Fifty five thousand (55,000) turkeys.
OPERATION    9.   Thirty thousand (30,000) laying hens or broilers, if the animal feeding
(L-CAFO):    operation uses a liquid manure handling system.
             10.   One hundred twenty five thousand (125,000) chickens, other than laying
             hens, if the animal feeding operation uses other than liquid manure handling
             systems.
             11.   Eighty two thousand (82,000) laying hens, if the animal feeding operation
             uses other than a liquid manure handling system.
             12.   Thirty thousand (30,000) ducks, if the animal feeding operation uses other
             than a liquid manure handling system.
             13.   Five thousand (5,000) ducks, if the animal feeding operation uses a liquid
             manure handling system.
MANURE:      Includes manure, bedding, compost, a raw material, or other material commingled
             with manure and set aside for disposal.
MULTI-       A L-CAFO (as defined above) that stables or confines dairy cows, veal calves or
SPECIES      cows, cattle, swine, horses, turkeys, laying hens or broilers, chickens, laying
LARGE        hens, ducks, mink or other species of animals and satisfies the requirements of
CONCENTRATED Utah Code Annotated section 17-27a-1104(4) which direct that, "A county shall
ANIMAL       designate at least one geographic area within the county where large
FEEDING      concentrated animal feeding operations for all animal species listed in [Utah
OPERATION:   Code Ann.] Subsection 17-27a-1102(6) may be located."
             Land that: (i) is owned by the federal government, the state, or a political
             subdivision with facilities that attract the public to congregate and remain in
             the area for significant periods of time; (ii) is part of a public park,
PUBLIC AREA: preserve, or recreation area that is owned or managed by the federal government,
             the state, a political subdivision, or a non-governmental entity; and has a
             cultural, archaeological, scientific, or historic significance or contains a
             rare or valuable ecological system, including a site recognized as a Natural
             Historic Landmark; or, is a cemetery.
RELIGIOUS    A building and grounds used at least monthly for religious services or
INSTITUTION: ceremonies.
 
   B.   Factors Used To Determine The Location Of A Large Concentrated Animal
Feeding Operation (L-CAFO):
      1.   The location of large concentrated animal feeding operations shall
be determined in keeping with the provisions of this section and Utah Code
Annotated section 17-27a-1104, factoring considerations of distances measured
in feet from the following:
         a.   Residential Zones: Varying distances as close as twenty six
thousand four hundred feet (26,400') for multi-species large concentrated
animal feeding operations and ten thousand five hundred sixty feet (10,560')
for cattle, veal calf, or dairy cow operations.
         b.   Health Care Facilities: Varying distances as close as twenty six
thousand four hundred feet (26,400') for multi-species large concentrated
animal feeding operations and ten thousand five hundred sixty feet (10,560')
for cattle, veal calf, or dairy cow operations.
         c.   Public Areas: Varying distances as close as ten thousand five
hundred sixty feet (10,560') for all large concentrated animal feeding
operations.
         d.   Education Institutions: Varying distances as close as twenty six
thousand four hundred feet (26,400') for multi-species large concentrated
animal feeding operations and ten thousand five hundred sixty feet (10,560')
for cattle, veal calf, or dairy cow operations.
         e.   Religious Institutions: Varying distances as close as twenty six
thousand four hundred feet (26,400') for multi-species large concentrated
animal feeding operations and ten thousand five hundred sixty feet (10,560')
for cattle, veal calf, or dairy cow operations.
         f.   Commercial Enterprises: Varying distances as close as ten
thousand five hundred sixty feet (10,560') for all large concentrated animal
feeding operations.
         g.   Municipal Boundaries: Varying distances as close as twenty six
thousand four hundred feet (26,400') for multi-species large concentrated
animal feeding operations and ten thousand five hundred sixty feet (10,560')
for cattle, veal calf, or dairy cow operations.
         h.   State Or County Highways Or Roads: Varying distances as close as
five thousand two hundred eighty feet (5,280') for all large concentrated
animal feeding operations.
      2.   Considerations of prevailing winds, topography, economic benefits to
the county, and reasonable access to transportation, water, and power
infrastructure, as well as other reasonable criteria such as water recharge
zones, underground aquifers, and groundwater reservoirs shall also be
considered in determining the location of a large concentrated animal feeding
operation (L-CAFO).
   C.   Large Confined Animal Feeding Operation (L-CAFO) Overlay Map: Factoring
the considerations set forth within this section and within Utah Code Annotated
sections 17-27a-1101 through 17-27a-1104 and subsection B2, the County hereby
adopts the Large Confined Animal Feeding Operation Overlay Map attached to
Ordinance 2021-09 and hereby incorporated by reference as if laid out fully
herein. (Ord. 2021-09, 2-1-2022)
CHAPTER 11
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-11-1: Purpose
9-11-2: General Provisions
9-11-3: Performance Standards Procedure
9-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to measure potential nuisances, from industrial
or other uses, factually and objectively in terms of the potential nuisance
itself; to ensure that all uses will provide necessary control methods for
protection from hazards and nuisances which can be prevented by modern
processes of control and nuisance elimination; and to protect any use from
arbitrary exclusion based solely on the characteristics of uncontrolled
production in this type of use in the past. (2004 Code § 10.12.010)
9-11-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any manner so
as to create dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable fire,
explosive or other hazards; noise or vibration, smoke, dust, odor or other form
of air pollution; heat, cold, dampness, glare, electrical or other disturbance;
liquid or solid refuse or wastes; or other substance, condition or element in
such a manner or in such amount as to affect adversely the surrounding area or
adjoining premises. The foregoing are hereinafter referred to as "dangerous or
objectionable elements". No use shall be undertaken or maintained unless it
conforms to the regulations of this chapter in addition to the regulations set
forth for the district in which such use is situated. (2004 Code § 10.12.020)
9-11-3: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS PROCEDURE:
The building inspector may require performance standards review for any use in
any district when he has reason to believe that such use, or the manner of its
operation, will not or may not conform to the performance standards adopted by
the county. (2004 Code § 10.12.030)
CHAPTER 12
CONSTRUCTION SUBJECT TO GEOLOGIC, FLOOD OR OTHER NATURAL HAZARDS
SECTION:
9-12-1: Report Required
9-12-2: Special Conditions
9-12-1: REPORT REQUIRED:
When the planning commission or the building inspector deems it necessary, any
application for a conditional use permit, a planned unit development approval
or a building or use permit shall be accompanied by a geologic and soils survey
report for the lot for which application approval is sought. The report shall
be prepared at applicant's expense by a geologist or soils engineer and shall
show the suitability of soils on the property to accommodate the proposed
construction, as well as any discernible flood or earthquake hazards. (2004
Code § 10.13.010)
9-12-2: SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
Whenever a geologic and soils survey report indicates that a lot is subject to
unusual potential or actual hazard, the applicant shall meet the special
conditions required by the planning commission and the building inspector to
reduce or eliminate such hazard. If such conditions cannot be met, or will not
be met, the application shall be denied. (2004 Code § 10.13.010)
CHAPTER 13
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-13-1: Effect Of Chapter
9-13-2: Substandard Lots At Time Of Passage
9-13-3: Lot Standards
9-13-4: Every Dwelling On A Lot; Exceptions
9-13-5: Yard Space For One Building Only
9-13-6: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space
9-13-7: Development Of Lots Below Minimum Space Requirements
9-13-8: Yards Unobstructed; Exceptions
9-13-9: Area Of Accessory Buildings
9-13-10: Additional Height Allowed
9-13-11: Exceptions To Height Limitations
9-13-12: Minimum Height Of Main Buildings
9-13-13: Maximum Height Of Accessory Buildings
9-13-14: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
9-13-15: Maximum Height Of Fences, Walls And Hedges
9-13-16: Water And Sewer Requirements
9-13-17: Curbs, Gutters And Sidewalks
9-13-18: Lots And Buildings On Private Streets
9-13-19: Lots And Buildings On Public Streets
9-13-20: Residential Energy Systems
9-13-21: Manufactured And Modular Housing
9-13-22: Notice Of Conditional Use Permit Application To Landowners In
Incorporated Areas
9-13-23: Notice Regarding Kennel Application
9-13-24: Short-Term Vacation Rentals (Short-Term Rentals)
9-13-1: EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the zoning regulations appearing elsewhere in this title.
(2004 Code § 10.05.010)
9-13-2: SUBSTANDARD LOTS AT TIME OF PASSAGE:
Any lot held in separate ownership at the time of passage of this title, which
lot is below the requirements for lot area or lot width for the district in
which it is located, may be used for a single-family dwelling if such lot is
located in a district which permits single-family dwellings. The width of each
of the side yards for such a dwelling may be reduced to a width which is not
less than the same percentage of the lot width as the required side yard would
be of the required lot width; provided, that in no case shall the smaller of
the two (2) yards be less than five feet (5') or a total width of the two (2)
yards be less than thirteen feet (13'). (2004 Code § 10.05.020)
9-13-3: LOT STANDARDS:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every lot, existing or intended
to be created, shall have such area, width and depth as is required by this
title for the district in which such lot is located and shall have frontage
upon a dedicated or publicly approved street or upon a private street or right
of way approved by the planning commission. (2004 Code § 10.05.030)
9-13-4: EVERY DWELLING ON A LOT; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Every dwelling structure shall be located and maintained on a separate
lot having no less than the minimum area, width, depth and frontage required by
this title for the district in which the dwelling structure is located, except
that group dwellings, cluster dwellings, condominiums, and other multi-
structure dwelling complexes under single ownership and management, which are
permitted by this title and have approval from the planning commission, may
occupy one lot for each multi-structure complex. (2004 Code § 10.05.040) (Ord.
2014-11, 6-2-2014; amd. Ord. 2021-10, 11-3-2021)
9-13-5: YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY:
No required yard or other open space around an existing building or which is
hereafter provided around any building for the purposes of complying with the
provisions of this title shall be considered as providing a yard or open space
for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space on an
adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon
a building is to be erected or established. (2004 Code § 10.05.050)
9-13-6: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE:
No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other
requirements of this title for a lot or building may be sold or leased apart
from such lot or building. (2004 Code § 10.05.060)
9-13-7: DEVELOPMENT OF LOTS BELOW MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area requirements
for the district in which it is located may be cut off from a larger parcel of
land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building or development
as a lot, except when used, leased or owned for the siting of a public utility
infrastructure. (Ord. 2015-10, 6-15-2015)
9-13-8: YARDS UNOBSTRUCTED; EXCEPTIONS:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed, except
for accessory buildings in a rear yard, the ordinary projection of skylights,
sills, belt courses, cornices, chimneys, flues and other ornamental features
which project into a yard not more than two and one-half feet (21/2'), and open
or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and balconies
opening upon fire towers projecting into a yard not more than five feet (5').
(2004 Code § 10.05.080)
9-13-9: AREA OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
No accessory building nor group of accessory buildings in any residential
district shall cover more than twenty five percent (25%) of the rear yard.
(2004 Code § 10.05.090)
9-13-10: ADDITIONAL HEIGHT ALLOWED:
Public utility buildings, when authorized in a district, may be erected to a
height greater than the district height limit by conditional use permit. (2004
Code § 10.05.100)
9-13-11: EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Penthouse or roof structures, housing elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating
fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the building, and
fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys,
smokestacks, water tanks, windmills, wireless or television masts, theater
lofts, silos, hay barns, or similar structures may be erected above the height
limits herein prescribed, but no space above the height limit shall be allowed
for purposes of providing additional floor space. (Ord. 2015-04, 4-6-2015)
9-13-12: MINIMUM HEIGHT OF MAIN BUILDINGS:
No dwelling shall be erected to a height less than one story above grade. (2004
Code § 10.05.120)
9-13-13: MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
No building which is accessory to a one-family, two-family, three-family or
four-family dwelling shall be erected to a height greater than thirty feet
(30'). (Ord. 2014-11, 6-2-2014)
9-13-14: CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
In all districts which require a front yard, no obstruction to view in excess
of two feet (2') in height shall be placed on any corner lot within a
triangular area formed by the street property lines and a line connecting them
at points forty feet (40') from the intersection of the street lines, except a
reasonable number of trees pruned high enough to permit unobstructed vision to
automobile drivers and pumps at gasoline service stations. (2004 Code §
10.05.140)
9-13-15: MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES:
   A.   Fences, walls and hedges may be erected or allowed to the permitted
building height when located within the buildable area; provided, that any
physical structure over six feet (6') in height shall require a building
permit. (2004 Code § 10.05.150)
   B.   Fences, walls and hedges may not exceed seven feet (7') in height,
unless required by the planning commission, within any required rear yard or
interior side yard. (Ord. 2014-11, 6-2-2014; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Fences, walls and hedges may not exceed two feet (2') in height within
any required front yard or side street side yard.
   D.   Notwithstanding any other provisions herein, no fence, wall or hedge
exceeding two feet (2') in height shall be erected or allowed closer to any
street line than the required building setback line.
   E.   For purpose of this section, single shrub planting shall not constitute
a hedge if the closest distance between the foliage of any two (2) plants is
and remains at least five feet (5').
   F.   Where a fence, wall or hedge is located along a property line
separating two (2) lots and there is a difference in the grade of the
properties on the two (2) sides of the property line, the fence, wall or hedge
may be erected or allowed to the maximum height permitted on either side of the
property line. (2004 Code § 10.05.150)
9-13-16: WATER AND SEWER REQUIREMENTS:
In all cases where a proposed building or proposed use will involve the use of
sewerage facilities and a connection to a public sewer system, as defined by
the state division of environmental health, is not available, and in all cases
where a connection to a public water system approved by the state division of
environmental health is not available, the sewage disposal and the domestic
water supply shall comply with the requirements of such division, and the
application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a certificate of
approval from said division of health. (2004 Code § 10.05.160)
9-13-17: CURBS, GUTTERS AND SIDEWALKS:
The installation of curbs, gutters and sidewalks of a type approved by the
county may be required on any existing or proposed street adjoining a lot on
which a building is to be constructed or remodeled, or on which a new use is to
be established. Such curbs, gutters and sidewalks may be required as a
condition of building or use permit approval. (2004 Code § 10.05.170)
9-13-18: LOTS AND BUILDINGS ON PRIVATE STREETS:
Lots or buildings with frontage on private streets only shall be allowed by
conditional use permit or planned unit development procedure only, and subject
to all applicable requirements of this title and the subdivision ordinance.
(2004 Code § 10.05.180)
9-13-19: LOTS AND BUILDINGS ON PUBLIC STREETS:
Any building or lot created that fronts or has a side yard on a public street
or road that is part of the future transportation corridor must deed to the
county one-half (1/2) of the required width, plus one-half (1/2) of the
existing street or road from fence to fence if applicable. (Ord. 2004-03, 4-5-
2004)
9-13-20: RESIDENTIAL ENERGY SYSTEMS:
Residential energy systems are a permitted use for installation on a
residential property and/or dwelling. (Ord. 2014-11, 6-2-2014)
9-13-21: MANUFACTURED AND MODULAR HOUSING:
   A.   Requirements For Placement: Upon application and payment of a fee, a
building permit may be issued for a placement of a new manufactured home
certified as meeting the national mobile home construction and safety standards
act of 1974 (effective June 15, 1976) of the department of housing and urban
development, on a lot zoned for single-family dwellings. Application for any
such permit shall be made to the building inspector, which shall issue the same
as a manufactured housing permit, upon evidence of compliance, to the
satisfaction of the inspector, with the following terms and conditions:
      1.   Permanent Foundation: The manufactured house be placed on a
permanent foundation, as would comply with the adopted building code; and said
manufactured house be installed on said foundation in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Each manufactured home shall be installed with or
without a basement on a site built, permanent foundation system that meets or
exceeds applicable requirements of the building codes. This shall include
permanent masonry/cement perimeter enclosures for each manufactured home
installation and shall conform to the building code as specified for foundation
walls. This shall include removal of towing hitches and running gear, which
includes tongues, axles, brakes, wheels, lights and other parts of chassis that
operate only during transport.
      2.   Lot Requirements: The lot upon which said manufactured house is to
be placed shall comply in all respects with the then existing zoning
requirements for the district in which it lies, including, but not limited to:
lot size, building setback, access, enclosures, yard requirements and the
length of the structure facing the street or roadway to which it will be
addressed.
      3.   Use: The manufactured house shall be used in accordance with the
allowed purposes for which such structures may be used in the district in which
the applicant seeks to have it lie; and shall be compatible with the then
existing structures in the district in which the applicant seeks to have it
lie.
      4.   HUD Approval: The manufactured house shall have received an insignia
of approval by the U.S. department of housing and urban development, have been
constructed after July 1, 1976, and shall not have been altered in violation of
the standards of the U.S. department of housing and urban development.
      5.   Minimum Width; Placement On Lot: The manufactured house shall have a
minimum width of twenty four feet (24'), with width being the smallest
dimension, and be multisectional or multimodular. The width (sides) shall face
the side yards and in no case face the street to which the structure shall be
addressed.
      6.   Exterior Material: The manufactured house shall have an exterior
covering material customarily used on conventional dwellings. Exterior siding
and trim materials shall consist of durable, weather resilient materials
approved for dwelling construction in the building codes, such as masonry,
stucco, woods, composition, glass, vinyl, steel or aluminum residential
sidings. In no case may corrugated metal, fiberglass or typical trailer coach
or recreational vehicle type coverings be used.
      7.   Roof: The manufactured house shall have a roof with a pitch of not
less than three inches (3") of vertical rise for each twelve inches (12") of
horizontal run, and be engineered to withstand the required snow load (live
load) plus the dead load for the area in which placement will occur. Roofing
materials shall be composition asphalt shingles or other shingle materials
preapproved by the building department. In addition, the roof shall have a
minimum eave overhang of not less than eight inches (8") to provide for runoff
and four inch (4") overhang where the roofline is not parallel to the base of
the unit (9 inches includes rain gutter).
      8.   Accessory Uses: Any and all appendages for accessory uses, such as
steps and stoops, carports or garages, storage units, antennas, satellite
dishes, patios and awnings or additions and alterations shall conform to
existing applicable codes. Main entry steps, stoops and porches shall be
concrete or masonry and shall have required handrails if appropriate.
      9.   Utility Connections: Permanent connection of all services to local
utilities (local authority approval required). This shall include two (2) hose
bibs when not contained with the manufactured home.
   B.   Title Delivered To County Assessor: The owner of said manufactured
house shall cause the document of title, as soon as the same is received from
the manufacturer, to be delivered to the county assessor and said house shall
thereafter be subject to local taxation as real property.
   C.   No Limitation Intended: Nothing in this section is intended, nor should
be construed as intended to limit or exclude the construction or placement of a
permanent dwelling on a lot zoned for single-family dwelling as heretofore may
have been permitted by the existing legislation. (2004 Code § 10.10.040)
9-13-22: NOTICE OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION TO LANDOWNERS IN
INCORPORATED AREAS:
Required notice by mail to adjoining landowners regarding conditional use
permit applications need be given to adjoining landowners. Notice shall also be
sent to the affected municipality. (Ord. 2016-13, 11-7-2016)
9-13-23: NOTICE REGARDING KENNEL APPLICATION:
Required notice by mail to adjoining landowners regarding kennel applications
must be given to landowners within one thousand three hundred twenty feet
(1,320') (1/4 mile) if there are more than five (5) dogs. (Ord. 2016-13, 11-7-
2016)
9-13-24: SHORT-TERM VACATION RENTALS (SHORT-TERM RENTALS):
   A.   A residential unit, or any portion of a residential unit, that the
owner of record or the lessee of the residential unit offers for occupancy or
other transient lodging uses for fewer than thirty (30) consecutive days.
   B.   All short-term rentals shall require a conditional use permit through
Beaver County. (Ord. 2019-08, 12-3-2019)
CHAPTER 14
NONCONFORMING USES AND NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES
SECTION:
9-14-1: Maintenance Permitted
9-14-2: Repairs And Maintenance
9-14-3: Extension, Alteration And Expansion
9-14-4: Alterations Where Parking Insufficient
9-14-5: Restoration Of Damaged Buildings
9-14-6: One Year Vacancy
9-14-7: Continuation Of Use
9-14-8: Occupation Within One Year
9-14-9: Change Of Use
9-14-10: Nonconforming Use Of Land
9-14-1: MAINTENANCE PERMITTED:
A noncomplying building or structure may be maintained. (2004 Code § 10.06.010)
9-14-2: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
Repairs and maintenance may be made to a noncomplying building or to a building
housing a nonconforming use. (2004 Code § 10.06.020)
9-14-3: EXTENSION, ALTERATION AND EXPANSION:
No extension, alteration or expansion to a noncomplying building or to a
building housing a nonconforming use may be made without appeal to the board of
adjustment. (2004 Code § 10.06.030)
9-14-4: ALTERATIONS WHERE PARKING INSUFFICIENT:
A building or structure lacking sufficient automobile parking space in
connection therewith as required by this title may be altered or enlarged,
provided additional automobile parking space is supplied to meet the
requirements of this title for such alterations or enlargements. (2004 Code §
10.06.040)
9-14-5: RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS:
A noncomplying building or structure, or a building or structure occupied by a
nonconforming use, which is damaged or is destroyed by fire, flood, wind,
earthquake or other calamity or act of God, or the public enemy, may be
restored and the occupancy or use of such building, structure or part thereof,
which existed at the time of such damage or destruction, may be continued or
resumed; provided, that such restoration is started within a period of one year
and is diligently prosecuted to completion. (2004 Code § 10.06.050)
9-14-6: ONE YEAR VACANCY:
A building or structure, or portion thereof, occupied by a nonconforming use,
which is, or hereafter becomes, vacant and remains unoccupied by a
nonconforming use for a continuous period of one year, except for dwellings,
shall not thereafter be occupied except by a use which conforms to the use
regulations of the district in which it is located. (2004 Code § 10.06.060)
9-14-7: CONTINUATION OF USE:
The occupancy of a building or structure by a nonconforming use, existing at
the time this title became effective, may be continued. (2004 Code § 10.06.070)
9-14-8: OCCUPATION WITHIN ONE YEAR:
A vacant building or structure may be occupied by a use for which the building
or structure was designed or intended if so occupied within a period of one
year after the use became nonconforming. (2004 Code § 10.06.080)
9-14-9: CHANGE OF USE:
The nonconforming use of a building or structure may not be changed except to a
conforming use; but where such change is made, the use shall not thereafter be
changed back to a nonconforming use. (2004 Code § 10.06.090)
9-14-10: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
The nonconforming use of land, existing at the time this title became
effective, may be continued; provided, that no such nonconforming use of land
shall in any way be expanded or extended either on the same or on adjoining
property; and provided, that if such nonconforming use of land, or any portion
thereof, is abandoned or changed for a period of one year or more, any future
use of such land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this title.
(2004 Code § 10.06.100)
CHAPTER 15
OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
9-15-1: Off Street Parking Required
9-15-2: Size Of Parking Spaces
9-15-3: Access To Individual Parking Space
9-15-4: Number Of Parking Spaces
9-15-5: Access Requirements
9-15-6: Location Of Gasoline Pumps
9-15-7: Maintenance Of Parking Lots
9-15-1: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIRED:
At the time any building or structure is erected or enlarged or increased in
capacity, or any use is established, there shall be provided off street parking
spaces for automobiles in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
(2004 Code § 10.07.010)
9-15-2: SIZE OF PARKING SPACES:
The dimensions of each off street parking space shall be at least ten feet by
twenty feet (10' x 20') for diagonal or ninety degree (90o) spaces; or ten feet
by twenty three feet (10' x 23') for parallel spaces. (2004 Code § 10.07.020)
9-15-3: ACCESS TO INDIVIDUAL PARKING SPACE:
Except for single-family and two-family dwellings, access to each parking space
shall be from a private driveway and not from a public street. (2004 Code §
10.07.030)
9-15-4: NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES:
The number of off street parking spaces required shall be as follows:
Business or professional offices        1 parking space for each 200 square
                                        feet of floor area
                                        1 parking space for each 3.5 fixed
Churches with fixed seating             seats, or 1 parking space for each 7
                                        feet of linear pew, whichever is
                                        greater
Churches without fixed seats, sports    1 parking space for each 3.5 seats of
arenas, auditoriums, theaters, assembly maximum seating capacity
halls
Dwellings                               2 parking spaces for each dwelling unit
Furniture and appliance stores          1 parking space for each 600 square
                                        feet of floor area
Hospitals                               2 parking spaces for each bed
                                        1 parking space for each living or
Hotels, motels, motor hotels            sleeping unit, plus parking space for
                                        all accessory uses, as herein specified
Nursing homes                           4 parking spaces, plus 1 space for each
                                        5 beds
Restaurants, taverns, private clubs and 1 parking space for each 3.5 seats, or
all other similar dining and/or         1 parking space for each 100 square
drinking establishments                 feet of floor area (excluding kitchen,
                                        storage, etc.), whichever is greater
Retail stores, shops, except as         1 parking space for each 200 square
provided in "furniture and appliance    feet of retail floor space
stores"
                                        As determined by conditional use permit
Shopping centers or other groups of     or planned unit development procedure,
uses not listed in this section         if applicable, or by the planning
                                        commission
                                        As determined by conditional use permit
                                        or by planned unit development
Wholesale establishments, warehouses,   requirements, if applicable, or by the
manufacturing establishments and all    planning commission, but in no case
industrial uses                         fewer than 1 space for each employee
                                        projected for the highest employment
                                        shift
All other uses not listed in this       As determined by the building inspector
section                                 based on the nearest comparable use
                                        standards
 
(2004 Code § 10.07.040)
9-15-5: ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Not more than two (2) driveways shall be used for each one hundred feet
(100'), or fraction thereof, of frontage on any street.
   B.   No two (2) of said driveways shall be closer to each other than twelve
feet (12'), and no driveway shall be closer to a side property line than three
feet (3').
   C.   Each driveway shall be not more than thirty five feet (35') in width,
measured at right angles to the centerline of the driveway, except as increased
by permissible curb return radii. The entire flare of any return radius shall
fall within the right of way.
   D.   No driveway shall be closer than ten feet (10') to the point of
intersection of two (2) property lines at any corner as measured along the
property line, and no driveway shall extend across such extended property line.
   E.   In all cases where there is an existing curb and gutter or sidewalk on
the street, the applicant for a permit shall provide a safety island along the
entire frontage of the property, except for the permitted driveways. On the two
(2) ends and street side of each such island shall be constructed a concrete
curb, the height, location and structural specifications of which shall be
approved by the county engineer. (2004 Code § 10.07.050)
9-15-6: LOCATION OF GASOLINE PUMPS:
Gasoline pumps shall be set back not less than twenty feet (20') from any
street line to which the pump island is vertical and twelve feet (12') from any
street line to which the pump island is parallel, and not less than ten feet
(10') from any residential or agricultural district boundary line. If the pump
island is set at an angle on the property, it shall be so located that the
automobiles stopped for service will not extend over the property line. (2004
Code § 10.07.060)
9-15-7: MAINTENANCE OF PARKING LOTS:
Every parcel of land used as a public or private parking lot shall be developed
and maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
   A.   Surfacing: Each off street parking lot shall be surfaced with an
asphaltic or portland cement or other binder pavement so as to provide a
dustless surface. The parking area shall be so graded as to dispose of all
surface water. If such water is to be carried to adjacent streets, it shall be
piped under sidewalks.
   B.   Screening: The sides and rear of any off street parking lot which face
or adjoin a residential district shall be screened from such district by a
masonry wall or solid visual barrier fence not less than four feet (4') or more
than six feet (6') in height.
   C.   Landscaping: Each parking lot shall be adequately landscaped and
permanently maintained.
   D.   Lighting: Lighting used to illuminate any parking lot shall be arranged
to reflect the light away from adjoining premises in any R or A district, and
then from street traffic. (2004 Code § 10.07.070)
CHAPTER 16
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-16-1: Signs Allowed
9-16-2: Construction
9-16-3: Illumination
9-16-4: Location
9-16-5: Roof Signs
9-16-1: SIGNS ALLOWED:
The following described signs shall be allowed as indicated in the accompanying
table:
Type Of Sign                         Zone
(See          Maximum Size Minimum                             Type Of
Definitions   In Feet      Height In Permitted Use Conditional Illumination
Of This                    Feet1                   Use
Title)
Type Of Sign                          Zone
(See          Maximum Size Minimum                                 Type Of
Definitions   In Feet      Height In  Permitted Use  Conditional   Illumination
Of This                    Feet1                     Use
Title)
Advertising   25 x 602     See note 3 M-G            C-H           Indirect
Business      8 x 20       50         C-N, C-S, C-H, Above 50 feet Indirect
                                     M-G
Nameplate     1 x 2        8          All zones                   Indirect
Property
sale, lease,  2 x 3        6          All zones                   None
rent or
trespass
Public        3 x 6        8                        All zones     Indirect
information
Temporary     8 x 12       16                       All zones     None
 
Notes:
   1.    The distance from the top of the sign to the ground supporting it.
   2.    Maximum area is 1,000 square feet.
      3.      The bottom of the sign need not be lower than the traveled
portion of the roadway from which the sign is viewed.
All signs must conform to state regulations. (2004 Code § 10.14.010; amd. 2015
Code)
9-16-2: CONSTRUCTION:
All signs in commercial zones shall have a surface of noncombustible material;
provided, however, that combustible structural trim may be used thereon. (2004
Code § 10.14.020)
9-16-3: ILLUMINATION:
All illuminated signs, except business signs, shall be illuminated by indirect
lighting, the source of which shall not be visible from the street. In no case
shall direct rays of light be permitted to penetrate a property in a
residential zone or used for residential purposes. (2004 Code § 10.14.030)
9-16-4: LOCATION:
No sign shall interfere with the view from intersecting streets as provided in
this title, and no sign shall be less than nine feet (9') high over adjacent
rights of way. In any zone requiring a front yard, all ground signs in that
zone shall adhere to the front yard requirements. (2004 Code § 10.14.040)
9-16-5: ROOF SIGNS:
Roof signs shall be permitted only in the C-S zone. (2004 Code § 10.14.050;
amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 17
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
9-17-1: Purpose
9-17-2: Conditional Use Requirement
9-17-3: Application For Permit
9-17-4: Conditional Uses For Agricultural And Commercial Operations
9-17-5: Development Plan
9-17-6: Fee For Permit
9-17-7: Public Hearing
9-17-8: Determination
9-17-9: Publication
9-17-10: Appeal Of Decision
9-17-11: Inspection
9-17-12: Revocation Of Conditional Use Permit
9-17-13: Time Limitation And Abandonment
9-17-14: Transfer Of Conditional Use Permit
9-17-15: Temporary Construction Camp
9-17-16: Temporary Worker Housing Facilities
9-17-17: Conditions For CUP
9-17-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of certain uses to
ensure their compatible integration in the land use pattern of the county.
(2004 Code § 10.08.010; amd. 2015 Code)
9-17-2: CONDITIONAL USE REQUIREMENT:
An approved conditional use permit shall be required for each conditional use
listed in this title prior to commencement of such use. When a conditional use
permit is required, no building permit or other permit or license shall be
issued by any officer or employee of the county, unless a conditional use
permit shall first have been issued by the planning commission or zoning
administrator. The zoning administrator may only issue conditional use permits
for the type of conditional uses previously authorized by the planning
commission. Applications for conditional use permits indicating a total project
value of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00), or greater, are
automatically referred to the board of county commissioners for final approval.
(Ord. 2015-04, 4-6-2015)
9-17-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for a conditional use permit shall be made at the office of the
planning commission on forms provided for that purpose. The application for a
conditional use permit shall require, but shall not be limited to, the
following information:
   A.   The name, business name and address of the applicant.
   B.   The name and address of the manager or contact person for the
applicant.
   C.   Two (2) copies of a plot plan with a legal description.
   D.   The present zone classification for the property.
   E.   A description of the proposed project and use of the land.
   F.   An estimate of the number of employees and the type of equipment and
buildings to be used.
   G.   An estimate of the total project valuation.
   H.   An estimate of the time required for construction of the project,
including the time required for construction of each phase if construction is
to be made in phases.
   I.   A listing of all permits that may be required by state or federal
agencies, with copies of such permits to be submitted to the planning
commission, as soon as they are available.
   J.   A listing of all utilities which will be in place before, during and
after construction.
   K.   Such other pertinent information as needed by the zoning administrator
or the planning commission to evaluate the application. (2004 Code § 10.08.030)
9-17-4: CONDITIONAL USES FOR AGRICULTURAL AND COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS:
In addition to those minimum requirements set forth in section
9-17-3 of this chapter, applications for conditional use permits for
agricultural or commercial purposes shall set forth:
   A.   A description of transportation needs and proposed routes.
   B.   A proposed plan for disposition of waste products, including a legal
description of lands that will be used for animal waste disposal.
   C.   An estimate of the number of livestock, if any, to be used in the
proposed operation.
   D.   A proposed disposition of dead animals, if any, other than those to be
slaughtered and processed for sale.
   E.   Such other pertinent information, as needed by the zoning administrator
or planning commission to evaluate the application. (2004 Code § 10.08.040)
9-17-5: DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
The applicant for a conditional use permit shall prepare a site plan of the
proposed buildings, fences, landscaping, automobile parking and loading areas,
and any other information the planning commission may deem necessary to
evaluate the proposed uses and the physical relationship of the uses. (2004
Code § 10.08.050)
9-17-6: FEE FOR PERMIT:
The application for any conditional use permit shall be accompanied by the
appropriate fee, as set by resolution of the board of county commissioners.
(2004 Code § 10.08.060)
9-17-7: PUBLIC HEARING:
The planning commission may grant an application for a conditional use permit
without first holding a public hearing. A hearing may be held, however, when
the planning commission shall deem it to be necessary or desirable to serve the
public interest. (2004 Code § 10.08.070)
9-17-8: DETERMINATION:
   A.   Approval, Denial By Planning Commission: The planning commission may
approve or deny a conditional use application. The planning commission shall
impose such regulations and conditions as are necessary to protect the public
welfare, to accomplish the purposes of the general plan and this title, and to
contribute to the general well being of the community. If an applicant meets
those conditions imposed by the planning commission, the planning commission
shall issue a conditional use permit subject to the conditions so imposed.
(Ord. 2008-04, 4-7-2008)
   B.   Required Findings: The commission shall record the decision in writing
and shall recite therein the findings upon which such decision is based. The
commission may approve and/or modify a conditional use permit application in
whole or in part, with or without conditions, only if the applicant has
certified that the proposed use complies with the following findings:
      1.   The proposed use is allowed by conditional use within the proposed
zoning district and meets all of the requirements of this code;
      2.   The proposed use will preserve the integrity and character of the
zoning district;
      3.   The location is physically suitable for the type of use for which it
is being proposed;
      4.   The proposed use is compatible with existing and future land uses
within the general area;
      5.   The proposed use is compatible in scale, mass, coverage and density
with neighboring land uses;
      6.   There are adequate provisions for water, sanitation, public
utilities and services to ensure that the proposed use will not be harmful to
public health and safety;
      7.   Will the use create harmful effects within the surrounding area?;
      8.   Was a market/feasibility study required?;
      9.   Will the proposed use have a significant or harmful effect upon
environmental quality and/or natural resources?;
      10.   Are there negative impacts of the proposed use? If so, how can they
be minimized?;
      11.   Will the proposed location, size, design and/or operating
characteristics be detrimental to public interests, health, safety, convenience
or welfare of Beaver County?
   C.   Denial: In denying a conditional use permit, the planning commission
shall set forth specifically in writing the reasons for such denial and provide
the applicant with a copy of the planning commission's written decision. (Ord.
2016-11, 11-7-2016)
9-17-9: PUBLICATION:
Notice of conditional use permit applications may be published at such times or
in such manner as deemed necessary by the planning commission. (2004 Code §
10.08.090)
9-17-10: APPEAL OF DECISION:
Appeal of any decision of the planning commission shall be to the board of
adjustment. Appeal shall be in writing, and shall be filed at the office of the
board of appeal not more than ten (10) business days after the decision by the
planning commission. The board of appeal may affirm, modify or reverse the
decision of the planning commission. However, the board of appeal shall
present, in writing, the reasons for its action. (2004 Code § 10.08.100; amd.
2015 Code; Ord. 2022-07, 10-4-2022)
9-17-11: INSPECTION:
The building official shall inspect the lot on which a conditional use permit
is issued during construction of any improvements, to ensure that all
improvements comply with the conditions of the conditional use permit. (2004
Code § 10.08.110)
9-17-12: REVOCATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
Action authorized by a Conditional Use Permit must commence within one (1) year
of the time the permit is issued. If the permit holder fails to comply with the
conditions imposed, if the intended use of the project changes or is
significantly altered, or the project has not commenced action under the permit
within this time, the permit shall expire. The Planning Commission may grant a
single, one-year extension for good cause shown. In order to obtain an
extension, the permit holder must apply in writing, describing the cause for
the extension and submit to the Planning Commission Office, prior to the
expiration of the original permit. (Ord. 2016-11, 11-7-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-07,
7-6-2021)
9-17-13: TIME LIMITATION AND ABANDONMENT:
   If any of the approved uses or activities cease, for any reason, for a
continuous period of one year, the conditional use permit shall automatically
terminate, as having been abandoned. A new conditional use permit must be
granted prior to continuance of the conditional use.
(Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
9-17-14: TRANSFER OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A conditional use permit is not generally transferable and applies to the
owner and property described in the original application or permit. However, a
person who purchases property for the purpose of continuing a conditional use
previously granted, may be allowed to transfer the permit under the same
conditions upon approval of the planning commission.
(2004 Code § 10.08.130 amd. Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
9-17-15: TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION CAMP:
   A conditional use permit for a temporary construction camp may be issued by
the planning commission for a time limit not exceeding the period of
construction, plus six (6) months. The applicant, in addition to submitting the
development plan in accordance with section
9-17-5 of this chapter, shall also submit plans for the water supply and sewage
systems, and shall obtain the approval of the board of health and building
official.
(2004 Code § 10.08.140; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
9-17-16: TEMPORARY WORKER HOUSING FACILITIES:
   A.   Application For Permit: A landowner may apply for a conditional use
permit for a temporary worker housing facility for an agricultural operation,
fitting the description of intensive livestock operation. Either the planning
commission or by the board of county commissioners, depending on the total
project valuation, may issue a conditional use permit under the criteria set
out in this chapter. (Ord. 2006-13, 11-13-2006; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Application: The application for a temporary worker housing facility
conditional use permit shall address the requirements of sections
9-17-3 and
9-17-4 of this chapter.
   C.   Development Plan: The application shall include a development plan. The
development plan shall include the following information:
      1.   A site plan for the entire housing facility showing the size and
location of each housing unit, the location of any public or private streets
used for access to the housing, and other significant features of the
facilities;
      2.   The maximum number of workers to be housed at any time;
      3.   The water supply system, with approval letter from Southwest Utah
health department;
      4.   The sewer system, with approval letter from Southwest Utah health
department;
      5.   The period of time during which the workers will be housed;
      6.   A list of any permits required from local, state or federal agencies
in order to build and operate the housing facilities; and
      7.   Other information necessary for the planning commission to evaluate
the development plan.
   D.   Use Of Manufactured Housing: Manufactured housing can be used in a
temporary worker housing facility; provided, that such housing was constructed
or manufactured in accordance with all applicable codes.
   E.   Districts Permitted: Temporary worker housing facilities may be located
only in the multiple use district (MU-20) and in the agricultural district (A-
20).
(Ord. 2006-13, 11-13-2006; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
9-17-17: CONDITIONS FOR CUP:
   Appropriate conditions for CUPs may include but are not limited to the
following:
   A.   Compliance with all applicable codes, laws, rules and regulations;
   B.   Compliance with all State and Federal guidelines;
   C.   Road Maintenance Agreement;
   D.   Closure Plan;
   E.   Air Quality Permit;
   F.   Dust control during and after;
   G.   Feasibility Study;
   H.   Erosion control to prevent contamination of water ways;
   I.   Land stabilized (vegetation);
   J.   Perimeter fencing;
   K.   Not seek to modify sound or reasonable agriculture practices;
   L.   Contact Beaver County Emergency Services Director;
   M.   Mitigation for noise/damage-truck traffic hours/crushing hours/covered
loads/etc.;
   N.   Water quality testing;
   O.   Disposal of dead animals, waste, solar components, etc.;
   P.   Transferee or assignee required to sign an express assumption and CUP.
(Ord. 2022-01, 2-1-2022; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 18
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
9-18-1: Purpose
9-18-2: Defined
9-18-3: Planned Unit Development Permit
9-18-4: Required Conditions
9-18-5: Permitted Uses
9-18-6: General Site Plan
9-18-7: Review By Planning Commission
9-18-8: Scope Of Planning Commission Action
9-18-9: Construction Limitations
9-18-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to allow diversification in the relationship of
various uses and structures to their sites and to permit more flexibility in
the use of such sites. (2004 Code § 10.09.010)
9-18-2: DEFINED:
"Planned unit development" is defined as an integrated design for development
of residential, commercial or industrial uses, or combinations of such uses, in
which one or more of the regulations, other than use regulations, of the
district in which the development is to be situated, is waived or varied to
allow flexibility and initiative in site and building design and location, in
accordance with an approved plan and imposed general requirements as specified
in this chapter. (2004 Code § 10.09.020; amd. 2015 Code)
9-18-3: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
Planned unit developments may be allowed by planning commission approval in any
zoning district. No such planned unit development permit shall be granted
unless the planned unit development will meet the use limitations of the zoning
district in which it is to be located, including planned unit developments in
planned districts, and meet the density and other limitations provided by this
chapter or by district regulations. Compliance with the regulations of this
title does not excuse the developer from the applicable requirements of the
subdivision ordinance, except as modifications thereof are specifically
authorized in the approval of the application for the planned unit development.
(2004 Code § 10.09.030)
9-18-4: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Area: No planned unit development shall have an area less than one acre
in a commercial or industrial district, or less than five (5) acres in a
residential or agricultural district.
   B.   Change Of Zoning District: A planned unit development which will
contain uses not permitted in the zoning district in which it is to be located
will require a change of zoning district and shall be accompanied by an
application for a zoning amendment, except that any residential use shall be
considered a permitted use in a planned unit development which allows
residential uses and shall be governed by density, design and other
requirements of the planned unit development permit.
   C.   Ownership: The development shall be in single, corporate or partnership
ownership at the time of application or the subject of an application filed
jointly by all owners of the property.
   D.   Arrangement Of Structures: The planning commission shall require such
arrangements of structures and open spaces within the site development plan as
necessary to assure that adjacent properties will not be adversely affected:
      1.   Density or land use intensity shall in no case be more than twenty
five percent (25%) higher than allowed in the zoning district, except not more
than ten percent (10%) higher in all residential districts.
      2.   Where feasible, height and intensity of buildings and uses shall be
arranged around the boundaries of the development.
      3.   Lot area, width, yard, height, density and coverage regulations
shall be determined by approval of the site development plan.
   E.   Required Open Spaces: Preservation, maintenance and ownership of
required open spaces within the development shall be accomplished by:
      1.   Dedication of the land as a public park or parkway system; or
      2.   Granting to the county, Beaver City, Milford or Minersville a
permanent, open space easement on and over the said private open spaces to
guarantee that the open spaces remain perpetually in recreational use, with
ownership and maintenance being the responsibility of an owners' association
established with articles of association and bylaws which are satisfactory to
the county; or
      3.   Complying with the provisions of the condominium ownership act, Utah
Code Annotated title 57, chapter 8, as amended, which provides for the payment
of common expenses for the upkeep of the common areas and facilities.
   F.   Landscaping, Fencing, Screening: Landscaping, fencing and screening
related to the several uses within the site, and as a means of integrating the
proposed development into its surroundings, shall be planned and presented to
the planning commission for approval, together with other required plans for
the development.
   G.   Signage: The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any, and
the intensity and direction of area or flood lighting shall be detailed in the
application.
   H.   Grading, Drainage Plan: A grading and drainage plan shall be submitted
to the planning commission with the application.
   I.   Planting Plan: A planting plan, showing proposed tree and shrubbery
planting, shall be prepared for the entire site to be developed.
   J.   Necessary Or Desirable Use: The proposed use of the particular location
shall be shown as necessary or desirable, to provide a service or facility
which will contribute to the general well being of the neighborhood and the
community.
   K.   Use Not Detrimental: It shall be shown that under the circumstances of
the particular case, the proposed use will not be detrimental to the health,
safety or general welfare of persons residing in the vicinity of the planned
unit development. (2004 Code § 10.09.040)
9-18-5: PERMITTED USES:
Subject to the review and approval of the planning commission, uses permitted
in a planned unit development shall be those uses which are permitted in the
planned district or other zoning district in which the planned unit development
is located; provided, that for the purposes of this chapter and title,
multiple-family dwellings may be permitted in a planned unit development
approved in a single-family zoning district; provided, that the overall density
of the development does not exceed ten percent (10%) higher than the density
normally allowed for single-family dwellings in such district. (2004 Code §
10.09.050)
9-18-6: GENERAL SITE PLAN:
Application shall be accompanied by a general site plan showing, where
pertinent:
   A.   The use or uses, dimensions, sketch elevations and locations of
proposed structures.
   B.   Dimensions and locations of areas to be reserved and developed for
vehicular and pedestrian traffic, parking, public uses, such as schools and
playgrounds, landscaping and other open spaces.
   C.   Architectural drawings and sketches outlining the general design and
character of the proposed uses and the physical relationship of the uses.
   D.   Such other pertinent information, including residential density,
coverage and open space characteristics shall be included as may be necessary
to make a determination that the contemplated arrangement of buildings and uses
makes it desirable to apply regulations and requirements differing from those
ordinarily applicable under this title. (2004 Code § 10.09.060)
9-18-7: REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION:
In order that it may approve a planned unit development, the planning
commission shall have authority to require that the following conditions be met
by the applicant:
   A.   The proponents of the planned unit development have demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the planning commission that they are financially able to carry
out the proposed project.
   B.   The proponents intend to start construction within one year of the
approval of the project and apply for any necessary zoning change, and intend
to complete the construction, or approved phases thereof, within a reasonable
time from the date construction begins.
   C.   Application for planned unit development in planned districts meets the
requirements of such districts, including the requirements of the general
development plan.
   D.   The development is planned as one complex land use rather than an
aggregation of individual and unrelated buildings and uses.
   E.   The development as planned will accomplish the purpose outlined in
section
9-18-1 of this chapter. (2004 Code § 10.09.070)
9-18-8: SCOPE OF PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
In carrying out the intent of this chapter, the planning commission shall
consider the following principles:
   A.   It is the intent of this chapter that site and building plans of a
planned unit development shall be prepared by a designer or team of designers
having professional competence in urban planning as proposed in the
application. The commission may require the applicant to engage such a
qualified designer or design team.
   B.   It is not the intent of this chapter that control of the design of a
planned unit development by the planning commission be so rigidly exercised
that individual initiative is stifled and substantial additional expense
incurred; rather, it is the intent of this chapter that the control exercised
be the minimum necessary to achieve the purpose of this chapter.
   C.   The planning commission may approve or disapprove an application for a
planned unit development. In an approval, the planning commission may attach
such conditions as it may deem necessary to secure compliance with the purposes
set forth in section
9-18-1 of this chapter. The denial of an application for a planned unit
development by the planning commission may be appealed to the board of
adjustment. (2004 Code § 10.09.080; amd. 2015 Code)
9-18-9: CONSTRUCTION LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Conformance Required: Upon approval of a planned unit development,
construction shall proceed only in accordance with the plans and specifications
approved by the planning commission and in conformity with any conditions
attached by the planning commission to its approval.
   B.   Amendments To Plan: Amendments to approved plan and specifications for
a planned unit development shall be obtained only by following the procedure
here outlined for first approval.
   C.   Permit Issuance: The building inspector shall not issue any permit for
any proposed building, structure or use within the project unless such
building, structure or use is in accordance with the approved development plan
and with any conditions imposed in conjunction with its approval. (2004 Code §
10.09.090)
CHAPTER 19
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS AND SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
9-19-1: Purpose
9-19-2: Approval Requirements
9-19-3: Development Plan
9-19-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to require that mobile home parks or mobile home
subdivisions be of such character as to promote the objectives and purposes of
this title, to protect the integrity and characteristics of the districts
contiguous to those in which the mobile home parks are located, and to protect
other use values contiguous to or near mobile home park uses. (2004 Code §
10.10.010)
9-19-2: APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS:
Mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions may only be constructed in the
residential district (R) and multiple-family residential districts (RM), and
may not be constructed unless first approved by the planning commission, after
review of plans for said mobile home park which satisfy the planning commission
that the proposed development will:
   A.   District Character: Be in keeping with the general character of the
district within which the proposed development will be located.
   B.   Minimum Area: Be located on a parcel of land containing not less than
five (5) acres, or on two (2) or more parcels separated by a street or alley
only, and totaling at least ten (10) acres.
   C.   Density: Contain no more than seven (7) units per acre. The mobile
homes may be clustered; provided, that the total number of units does not
exceed the number permitted on one acre, multiplied by the number of acres in
the development. The remaining land not contained in individual lots, roads or
parking, shall be set aside and developed as parks, playground and/or service
areas for the common use and enjoyment of occupants of the development and
visitors thereto.
   D.   Manner Of Construction: Mobile home parks or mobile home subdivisions
shall be constructed in the following manner:
      1.   Individual mobile home space minimum setbacks shall be measured from
the edge of internal streets and space lines as follows:
 
Front                 10 feet
Side                  5 feet on each side
Rear                  10 feet
Structural separation 10 foot minimum between dwelling units
 
      2.   Maximum mobile home space coverage (mobile home and its accessory
structure) shall be seventy five percent (75%).
      3.   Each mobile home shall be equipped with skirting, or provided with a
support pad which is recessed to give the appearance of the mobile home being
located on grade.
      4.   All on site utilities shall be installed underground.
      5.   The mobile home park shall be provided with parking as required by
chapter 15, "Off Street Parking Requirements", of this title.
      6.   A common recreation area which may contain a recreation building
shall be provided in the park for use by all tenants and their invited guests.
The area shall be provided in one common location with a minimum aggregate area
of four hundred (400) square feet of recreational space for each mobile home
space.
      7.   All exterior boundaries of the mobile home park shall appear similar
to conventional residential developments and shall be screened by a decorative
wall, fence or other comparable device six feet (6') in height, with a minimum
six foot (6') wide landscaped area provided along the inside of the perimeter
screen.
      8.   All mobile home park or subdivision developments shall provide
recreational amenities within the site which may include: swimming pool; spa;
clubhouse; tot lot with play equipment; picnic shelter - barbecue area; court
game facilities, such as tennis, basketball or racquetball; improved softball
or baseball fields; or daycare facilities. The type of amenities shall be
approved by the planning commission and provided according to the following
schedule:
 
Units     Amenities
0 - 9     0
10 - 50   1
51 - 100  2
101 - 200 3
201 - 300 4
Add 1 amenity for each 100 additional units or fraction thereof
 
   (2004 Code § 10.10.020)
9-19-3: DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
An overall plan for development of a mobile home park shall be submitted to the
planning commission for review. The plan shall be drawn to a scale. At least
three (3) copies of the plan shall be submitted. The plan shall show:
   A.   The topography of the site, when required by the planning commission,
represented by contours, shown at not greater intervals than two feet (2') when
required by the planning commission.
   B.   The proposed street and mobile home space layout, including points of
ingress and egress.
   C.   Proposed reservations for parks, playgrounds and open spaces.
   D.   Tabulations showing the percentage of area to be devoted to parks,
playgrounds and open spaces, number of mobile home spaces, and the total area
to be developed.
   E.   Proposed location, number and design of parking spaces.
   F.   Generalized landscaping and utility plan, including locations of water,
electricity, gas lines and fire hydrants.
   G.   Any other data the planning commission may require. (2004 Code §
10.10.030)
CHAPTER 20
TRAVEL TRAILERS AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
SECTION:
9-20-1: Purpose
9-20-2: Location And Use
9-20-3: Approval Requirements
9-20-4: Development Plan
9-20-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to permit development of facilities for travel
trailers in appropriate districts and to require that travel trailer
accommodations be of such character as to promote the objectives and purposes
of this title, to protect the integrity and characteristics of the districts
contiguous to those in which travel trailer parks are located, and to protect
other use values contiguous to or near travel trailer park uses. (2004 Code §
10.11.010)
9-20-2: LOCATION AND USE:
   A.   Approved And Licensed Travel Trailer Park: No travel trailer shall be
located, placed, used or occupied for residential purposes in any district,
except within approved and licensed travel trailer parks, except as otherwise
provided herein.
   B.   General Permitted Locations: Travel trailer parks generally shall be
located:
      1.   Adjacent to or in close proximity to a major traffic artery or
highway.
      2.   Near adequate shopping facilities.
      3.   Within or adjacent to a mobile home park.
   C.   Maximum Term: No individual space in a travel trailer park shall be
used by one individual trailer for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days, nor shall such space be rented or leased to any one
individual for a period longer than one hundred eighty (180) days.
   D.   Prohibited As Permanent Residence: Travel trailers may be stored, but
not used for permanent living quarters.
   E.   Sales Lots: Travel trailers may be stored, displayed, sold and
serviced, but not used for living quarters, in a sales lot in a commercial or
manufacturing district, when such use is a permitted or a conditional use.
   F.   Location Within Mobile Home Park: Travel trailers may be accommodated
in an approved and licensed mobile home park; provided, that:
      1.   The travel trailer park portion of the development is separated by
barriers, screens or otherwise from the area of mobile homes.
      2.   The travel trailer area shall have direct access to a collector or
arterial street.
      3.   Separate ingress and egress shall be provided for travel trailers
when required by the planning commission.
   G.   Temporary Residence: Travel trailers may be used as a temporary
residence in the agricultural, multiple use, residential estate, residential,
forest/recreation residential and multiple-family residential zoning districts
by the property owner. A temporary use permit may be granted only between May 1
and October 31. Such permit may not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days each
calendar year, and must be issued each year. A temporary use permit may be
issued by the building inspector, only when all of the following findings can
be made:
      1.   Approved septic tank as per state department of environmental
quality and building inspector standards.
      2.   Adequate fire protection as required by the Beaver County fire
district.
      3.   Approved culinary water source.
      4.   Adequate power source as approved by the building inspector. (2004
Code § 10.11.020)
9-20-3: APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS:
A travel trailer park may not be constructed unless first approved by the
planning commission after review of plans for said travel trailer park which
satisfy the planning commission that the proposed development will:
   A.   District Character: Be in keeping with the general character of the
district with which the proposed development will be located.
   B.   Minimum Area: Be located on a parcel of land containing not less than
two (2) acres, unless attached to a mobile home park, in which case no minimum
area is required.
   C.   Occupancy: Have at least ten (10) spaces completed and ready for
occupancy before the first occupancy is permitted.
   D.   Compliance With Requirements: Meet all requirements of this title and
specifically this chapter.
   E.   State Requirements: Meet all state requirements relating to camp,
trailer, hotel, motel and resort sanitation regulations which are intended to
apply to trailer, camper and tent camps, as defined in such code.
   F.   Qualified Designer: Be designed by a qualified architect, landscape
architect or urban planner, or a team which includes one or more of such
professionals. Determination of qualifications of any such required
professional individuals or firms shall be made by the planning commission.
   G.   Density: Contain not more than twenty (20) units per acre. The spaces
may be clustered; provided, that the total number of spaces does not exceed the
number permitted on one acre, multiplied by the number of acres in the
development. The remaining land not contained in individual spaces, roads or
parking, shall be set aside and developed as parks, playgrounds and/or service
areas for the common use and enjoyment of occupants of the development and
visitors thereto. (2004 Code § 10.11.030)
9-20-4: DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
An overall plan for development of a travel trailer park shall be submitted to
the planning commission for review. The plan shall be drawn to scale. At least
three (3) copies of the plan shall be submitted. The plan shall show:
   A.   The topography of the site, when required by the planning commission,
represented by contours shown at not greater than two foot (2') intervals.
   B.   The proposed street and trailer space pad layout, including points of
ingress and egress.
   C.   Proposed reservations for parks, playgrounds and open spaces.
   D.   Tabulations showing the percent of area to be devoted to parks,
playgrounds and open spaces, the number of trailer spaces, and the total area
to be developed.
   E.   Proposed location, number and design of parking spaces.
   F.   Generalized landscaping and utility plan, including location of water,
electricity, gas lines and fire hydrants.
   G.   Any other data the planning commission may require. (2004 Code §
10.11.040)
CHAPTER 21
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
SECTION:
9-21-1: Purpose
9-21-2: Interpretation
9-21-3: Applicability
9-21-4: Permitted And Conditional Uses And Limitations
9-21-5: Request For Compliance Determination
9-21-6: Development Standards Generally
9-21-7:    Development Standards For Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (IADU)
9-21-8:    Development Standards For Detached Accessory Dwelling Units
9-21-9:    Termination
9-21-10: Addressing
9-21-11: Enforcement And Noticing
9-21-12: Existing Buildings
9-21-1: PURPOSE:
Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) and Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (IADU) in
single-family residential zones are an important tool in the overall housing
goals and needs of County and allow for alternative and flexible housing
options in owner-occupied single-family residences. The purposes of the ADU
standards of this code are to:
   A.   Increase the availability of affordable housing options throughout the
County.
   B.   Create new housing units while respecting the appearance, neighborhood
character, and scale of single-family residential development.
   C.   Provide more housing choices in residential zones.
   D.   Allow more efficient use of existing housing and large underutilized
yards.
   E.   Provide housing options for family caregivers, adult children, aging
parents, and families seeking smaller households.
   F.   Offer a means for residents, particularly seniors, single parents, and
families with grown children, to remain in their homes and neighborhoods, and
obtain extra income, security, companionship, and services. (Ord, 2023-06, 7-
18-2023)
9-21-2: INTERPRETATION:
It is the intent of the County that the adoption of this ordinance shall be
understood as not to increase the density of the underlying zone designation.
An ADU shall always be accessory to the principal dwelling. An accessory
dwelling unit shall not be sold separately or subdivided from the principal
dwelling unit or parcel. (Ord, 2023-06, 7-18-2023)
9-21-3: APPLICABILITY:
Lots or Parcels are eligible for an accessory dwelling unit if:
   A.   The property is owner occupied as defined in Utah Code Ann. Section 17-
27a-526.
   B.   The use of the parcel at the time of application and at any time
thereafter allows for single-family use.
   C.   The permitted or conditional use is determined by the zoning district
in which the parcel resides. (Ord, 2023-06, 7-18-2023)
9-21-4: PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES AND LIMITATIONS:
Internal ADUs are a permitted use in residential districts as set forth in Utah
Code Ann. Section 17-27a-526 with additional requirements set forth in Beaver
County Ord. Title 9 Zoning Regulations. The allowed uses in the County zoning
districts are listed in table 1 below:
   TABLE 1
Zoning Districts Internal ADU Detached ADU and maximum square footage per
                              district
Zoning Districts Internal ADU    Detached ADU and maximum square footage per
                                 district
A-20, A-20FM     Conditional Use Conditional Use *No Limit
MU-20            Conditional Use Conditional Use *No Limit
A-10             Conditional Use Conditional Use *No Limit
A-5, RE-5        Permitted       Conditional Use *7,500
RE-1, FR-1       Permitted       Permitted       *3,500
RE-.5, R-21k     Permitted       Permitted       *2,500
R-10k, R-12k     Permitted       Permitted       **Note
PUD              Conditional Use Conditional Use **Note
 
* Note: If the legal description of the parcel within the zoning district(s) A-
20, A-20FM, MU-20, A-10, A-5, RE-5, RE-1, RE-.5, R-21k, or FR-1, is less than
the designated zoning district, the ADU square footage will be determined by
the size of the parcel. Any parcel less than one (1) acre will fall within
**Note.
** Note: Square footage of ADU shall be limited on the size of the parcel per
Zoning Administrator and approval of SWUPHD septic permit.
(Ord, 2023-06, 7-18-2023)
9-21-5: REQUEST FOR COMPLIANCE DETERMINATION:
A property owner may request a review to determine the compliance of an
accessory dwelling unit. This request shall be conducted through the following
application process:
   A.   Application shall be submitted to the County Planning and Zoning
Department and must include, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   Documentation that demonstrates the property is owner occupied.
      2.   A to-scale site plan, floor plans of all buildings on the parcel.
Such plans may be conceptual but shall provide reasonable accuracy and
specifications to allow for full understanding.
      3.   Fee. The initial application fee for any ADU shall be paid. The
payment of a partial application fee, or the submittal of plans for a pre-
submittal review shall not constitute a complete application. Fees shall be as
set forth in the consolidated fee schedule.
      4.   Only applications deemed complete by the County Staff shall be
processed. Complete applications include appropriate application forms and
signatures and documents as required in BEAVER COUNTY.
   B.   The application review shall, at a minimum, consist of the following:
      1.   The Zoning administrator or the administrator’s designee shall
administer an application review procedure in which the proposed use and the
proposed site development plan are evaluated for compliance with all applicable
ordinances and codes.
      2.   Referral of the application to all affected entities.
      3.   Staff reviewing the application may involve other County Departments
for additional considerations or conditions to adequately meet all applicable
standards.
   C.   The administrator, administrator’s designee or staff shall present in
writing a determination of the outcome of the review.
   D.   If the administrator, administrator’s designee or staff determines that
an accessory dwelling unit complies with the prevision of this chapter then a
notice of compliance shall be recorded on the property at the Beaver County
Recorder’s Office.
      1.   Notices that demonstrate compliance with County’s land use
regulations and state statute shall include, at a minimum, the following:
         a.   a description of the primary dwelling;
         b.   a statement that the primary dwelling or parcel contains an ADU;
         c.   a statement that the ADU may only be used in accordance with
County’s land use regulations.
      2.   A compliance determination may be appealed under Beaver County
Ordinance. (Ord, 2023-06, 7-18-2023)
9-21-6: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS GENERALLY:
   A.   An accessory dwelling unit shall not be sold separately or subdivided
from the principal dwelling unit or parcel.
   B.   Only one internal ADU within the primary dwelling is allowed and
additionally only one, detached, ADU is allowed per parcel.
   C.   The design and size of the ADU shall conform to all applicable
standards in the building, plumbing, electrical, mechanical, fire, health, and
any other applicable codes. When a new ADU is proposed in an existing single-
family dwelling, the entire ADU shall be compliant to all applicable standards.
   D.   The installation of separate utility meters is prohibited on internal
ADUs, unless required by the utility.
   E.   An ADU shall comply with the regulations of the underlying zone for
accessory buildings. Where the provisions in this chapter are inconsistent with
provisions found in any other chapters of County ordinances, the most
restrictive provisions shall apply.
   F.   Design Standards. The ADU, attached or detached, shall incorporate at
least one of the exterior materials used in the principal dwelling for twenty
percent (21%) of all facades of the structure. The ADU must have a pitched roof
unless the principal dwelling has a flat roof, in which case an ADU may have a
flat roof or a pitched roof. The ADU shall maintain the same color of the
primary dwelling for at least fifty percent (50%) of all facades.
   G.   Detached ADUs are prohibited on flag parcels. An internal ADU may be
located on a flag parcel.
   H.   Parking for any ADU is prohibited on a public or private street.
   I.   ADUs may not be built within a recorded easement.
(Ord, 2023-06, 7-18-2023; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 10-1-2024)
9-21-7: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR INTERNAL ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (IADU):
Internal ADUs are regulated under Utah Code Ann. 17-27a-526 and additionally
shall:
   A.   Be prohibited on parcels less than 6,000 square feet;
   B.   Have one off-street parking stall for the Internal ADU;
   C.   Not change the appearance of the primary dwelling as a single-family
dwelling;
   D.   Be prohibited from having separate utility meters from the primary
dwelling; and
   E.   Be prohibited in a mobile home or manufactured home.
   Table 3
 
                                                 Specific Use Limitations or
                                                   Specific Standards
Minimum Area           6,000 SF                     
                                                   The square footage of an
                                                   attached garage shall not be
                                                   included in the gross square
Maximum Area of IADU   None                        footage unless the accessory
                                                   dwelling unit is in a
                                                   basement that includes
                                                   habitable space below the
                                                   garage.
Parcel Coverage Total  Determined by the            
                       underlying zone designation
Entrance for IADU      Shall not be visible from    
                       the public right of way
                       1 parking stall per         Additional parking stalls or
                       Attached ADU and minimum    driveways created to
Off-Street Parking     parking requirement has     accommodate an ADU are
                       been met for principal      subject to standards of
                       dwelling.                   Beaver County.
Occupancy Limit in ADU 1 occupant per 200 sq. ft.   
                       of Habitable space
 
(Ord, 2023-06, 7-18-2023)
9-21-8: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR DETACHED ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
   A.   A detached ADU shall be a permanent structure. Trailers, mobile homes,
and other portable structures especially structures with wheels shall not be
permitted as a detached ADU.
   B.   A detached ADU is not eligible to have an internal accessory dwelling
unit
   C.   Exterior lighting shall provide illumination directed downward. Light
source shall not be visible from adjacent properties.
   D.   Parking shall be in a garage or 8 feet from an adjacent property or not
visible from an adjacent property unless utilizing a driveway in the front
yard.
   E.   Entrances, parking, and stairways within 15 feet of an adjacent
property shall not be visible from the adjacent property. This may be done with
a fence along the side and rear property lines, landscaping that is dense
enough to obscure activity or placing the entrances and stairs out of view of
adjacent properties.
   F.   Detached ADUs shall not be built on slopes of 30% or greater.
   G.   Exterior stairways and landing shall not encroach into a setback.
TABLE 4
                                                  Specific Use Limitations
                                                    of Specific Standards
Minimum Parcel Area      See Beaver County Code for  
                         Zoning Districts
Location                 Rear Yard                  See Beaver County 9-1-
                                                    6 for definition
Maximum Area of ADU      See Beaver County Code      
                         Determined by the
Parcel Coverage Total    underlying zone             
                         designation
Parcel Coverage for Rear 25%                         
Yard
Setbacks from Side and                              Heights greater than 16
Rear Yards               5 Feet                     feet require increased
                                                    setbacks.
Setback from Main                                   See additional standards,
Building                 5 Feet Minimum             location and setback
                                                    requirements.
                         24 Feet and must follow    Must also follow setback
Maximum Height           all County requirements    and height requirements of
                                                    Beaver County.
                                                    Additional parking stalls
                         2 per ADU and minimum      or driveways created to
Off-Street Parking       parking standard has been  accommodate an ADU are
                         met for principal          subject to standards of
                         dwelling.                  Beaver County Code section
                                                    9-15-4.
Occupancy Limit in ADU   1 occupant per 210 sq. ft.  
                         of Habitable space
 
(Ord, 2023-06, 7-18-2023)
9-21-9: TERMINATION:
If a property owner is found to be in violation of this title the County may
revoke the use of an ADU on the property. (Ord, 2023-06, 7-18-2023)
9-21-10: ADDRESSING:
The property owner may request to have an ADU be given a separate address from
the primary dwelling. A property owner requesting an additional address and
shall submit for a site plan review to the County Planning and Zoning
Department and pay any associated fees. (Ord, 2023-06, 7-18-2023)
9-21-11: ENFORCEMENT AND NOTICING:
   A.   In addition to any other legal or equitable remedies available to a
municipality, County may hold a lien against a property that contains an
internal accessory dwelling unit if:
      1.   The owner of the property violates any provisions of this Title, and
any other applicable section of the code;
      2.   County provides a written notice of violation in accordance with
section B;
      3.   The owner of the property fails to cure the violation within the
time period prescribed in the written notice;
      4.   County provides a written notice of lien in accordance with section
C;
      5.   County records a copy of the written notice of lien with the County
Recorder.
   B.   The written notice of violation shall:
      1.   Describe the specific violation;
      2.   Provide the owner of the ADU a reasonable opportunity to cure the
violation that is:
         a.   No less than 14 days after the day on which County sends the
written notice of violation, if the violation results from the owner renting or
offering to rent the ADU as a short-term rental; or
         b.   No less than 30 days after the day on which the municipality
sends the written notice of violation, for any other violation.
      3.   State that if the owner of the property fails to cure the violation
within the time period described above, the municipality may hold a lien
against the property in an amount of up to $100 for each day of violation after
the day on which the opportunity to cure the violation expires;
      4.   Notify the owner of the property:
         a.   That the owner of the property may file an appeal of the notice
of violation within ten (10) business days after the day on which the written
notice of violation is postmarked or posted on the property; and
         b.   Of the name and address of the County office where the owner of
the property may file the written objection;
      5.   Be mailed to:
         a.   The property’s owner of record; and
         b.   Any other individual designated to receive notice in the owner’s
license or permit records; and
      6.   Be posted on the property.
   C.   The written notice of lien shall:
      1.   Comply with Utah Code Ann. Section 38-12-102;
      2.   State that the property is subject to a lien;
      3.   Specify the lien amount, in an amount of up to $100 for each day of
violation after the day on which the opportunity to cure the violation expires;
      4.   Be mailed to:
         a.   The property’s owner of record; and
         b.   Any other individual designated to receive notice in the owner’s
license or permit records; and
      5.   Be posted on the property.
   D   Appeals. A property owner that receives a written notice of violation or
a written notice of lien may file an appeal in accordance with Beaver County.
      1.   If the owner of property files a written objection to a notice of
violation, County may not record a lien until a hearing is held to determine
that the specific violation occurred.
      2.   If Beaver County determines at the hearing that the specific
violation has occurred, Beaver County may impose a lien in an amount of up to
$100 for each day of violation after the day on which the opportunity to cure
the violation expires, regardless of whether the hearing is held after the day
on which the opportunity to cure the violation has expired.
      3.   If the owner of property cures a violation within the time period
prescribed in the written notice of violation, Beaver County may not hold a
lien against the property, or impose any penalty or fee on the owner, in
relation to the specific violation described in the written notice of
violation.
   E.   Upon issuing a permit or business license for an ADU, Beaver County may
record a notice in the office of the Beaver County Recorder. Upon recording a
notice, the County shall deliver a copy of the notice to the property owner via
First Class Mail. The notice shall include:
      1.   A description of the primary dwelling;
      2.   A statement that the primary dwelling contains an ADU; and
      3.   A statement that the ADU may only be used in accordance with Beaver
County ordinances. (Ord, 2023-06, 7-18-2023)
9-21-12: EXISTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Existing buildings in Beaver County that were permitted prior to July,
11, 2023 that are intended to be used as an ADU and cannot meet the standards
set forth in this chapter must file an application to have a structure declared
a noncomplying structure under Beaver County Code section 9-14 and then follow
the application process set forth below to have the use allowed through special
exception of Utah Code section 17-27a-510.5.
   B.   The property owner shall have the burden of establishing that the
building was legally created. The administrator or administrator’s designee
shall review application in the following procedure:
      1.   Owner or applicant seeking determination shall file an application
with the County and pay all applicable fees, including any additional fees
incurred resulting from staff providing research.
      2.   Application shall include evidence that clearly establishes the
existing building lawfully existed at the time it was created.
      3.   Acceptable evidence may include:
         a.   Historical zoning maps clearly identifying the use and structure
existed.
         b.   Historical zoning code supporting historical zoning maps.
         c.   Previously issued building permits.
         d.   Previously issued conditional use permits.
         e.   Documentation supporting a variance was granted or issued for the
use or structure.
         f.   Aerial imagery that clearly establishes use or structure existed.
         g.   Court Orders or Judgements.
         h.   Affidavits from previous property owners attesting to the use/
structure.
         i.   Evidence of utility connections.
         j.   A building inspection that certifies that the building or
structure was compliant with the codes in effect of the time it was built.
      4.   The County shall accept application and evidence provided and make
its findings and determination within fourteen business days. The County shall
notify the applicant in writing stating the determination.
      5.   A parcel that has an existing guest house does not qualify for an
additional detached ADU. By definition, a guest house may not be rented out or
leased. If a property owner wants to convert a guest house to a detached ADU
the property owner must follow all applicable processes and design requirements
for detached ADUs.
   C.   Attached Accessory Dwelling Unit Conversions:
      1.   A portion of a building attached to the primary dwelling that is
noncomplying and was legally established as determined under Beaver County Ord
9-1-6, may be converted or expanded for the purpose of converting or enlarged
for the purpose of converting, into an ADU upon permit authorized by the Land
Use Hearing Office provided that the Land Use Hearing Officer shall find that:
         a.   The primary dwelling, or portion thereof, is no less than 3 feet
from the side and rear property lines;
         b.   The attached ADU does not have a light source projecting onto the
neighboring property;
         c.   The attached ADU does not protrude higher than the measured
height of the existing nonconforming structure being expanded as measured from
original ground surface.
         d.   The attached ADU can accommodate all required parking on the
parcel, and does not violate the required off-street parking standards,
including parking requirements of this title.
   D.   Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit Conversions:
      1.   A detached building that complies with all applicable height,
building envelope, setback, and parcel coverage requirements may be converted,
or expanded for the purpose of converting, or enlarged for the purpose of
converting, to an accessory dwelling unit, provided the existing setbacks of
the detached building are not further reduced and the structure complies with
or can be altered to comply with the applicable sections of the adopted
building and fire codes of the County.
      2.   A detached building, that is noncomplying and was legally
established as determined under Beaver County Ord 9-1-6, may be converted, or
expanded for the purpose of converting, or enlarged for the purpose of
converting, to an accessory dwelling unit upon permit authorized by the Land
Use Hearing Office provided that the Land Use Hearing Officer shall find:
         a.   The side or rear setbacks of the detached building are not
further reduced to accommodate the ADU;
         b.   The detached building does not have a light source projecting
onto an adjacent property;
         c.   The facade of the detached building located within five feet and
facing an adjacent property line, does not have any balconies, porches,
landings, stairs, doors, or windows;
         d.   For properties with rear yards that are located next to an
Airport Zone, the detached building does not exceed 24 feet in height;
         e.   For all properties, located adjacent to a residential zone and
residential use, the detached building does not protrude higher than the
measured height of the existing noncomplying structure being expanded as
measured from original ground surface;
         f.   Does not create any new visual impacts that cannot be otherwise
mitigated by a fence or wall;
         g.   The detached ADU can accommodate all required parking on the
parcel, and does not violate or diminish the required off-street parking
standards, including parking requirements of this title;
         h.   Does not violate applicable standards and regulations outlined
for accessory structures and principal structures; provided that such increase
or expansion of structure does not further increase where the graduated height
envelope intersects the existing structure;
         i.   Structure or proposed expansion of the structure is not within
any recorded easement;
         j.   Does not result in runoff or drainage from the accessory building
onto an adjacent property;
         k.   The detached building shall meet all other requirements of BC,
except as provided otherwise in this section; and
         l.   Meets the applicable sections of the adopted building and fire
codes of the County.
   E.   Conditions and Limitations for Land Use Hearing Officer Permits for ADU
Conversions. The Land Use Hearing Officer may impose conditions and limitations
upon issuance of a permit for an addition to, enlargement of, moving of, or
reconstruction of a structure as necessary to prevent or mitigate adverse
effects on other properties located in the neighborhood of the subject
property, consistent with the standards of this Title. (Ord, 2023-06, 7-18-
2023)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-1-1: Authority For Local Regulations
10-1-2: Enforcement
10-1-3: Permits
10-1-4: Fees
10-1-5: Inspections
10-1-6: Legal Remedies
10-1-7: Violation And Penalty
10-1-1: AUTHORITY FOR LOCAL REGULATIONS:
Pursuant to the authority conferred by Utah Code Annotated 17-27a-601 et seq.,
and any other regulations provided by law, the regulations hereinafter in this
title contained are established herewith shall apply to all subdivisions, parts
of subdivisions or divisions of land into two (2) or more lots or parcels,
hereafter made of land wholly or partly within the county, and to the
preparation of maps thereof and for the filing and approval thereof; and each
subdivision and division of land and each part thereof lying within said county
shall be made, and each map thereof shall be prepared and presented for
approval as hereinafter provided. Except for subsection 10-3-3A4 of this title,
no provision is made in this title for the metes and bounds division of
property of three (3) or more lots. All such divisions shall comply with the
provision of this title. (2004 Code § 1-1; amd. 2015 Code)
10-1-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The planning commission, the county commission, the building inspector, county
attorney and such other departments and agencies or county government as are
specified under the provisions of this title are hereby designated and
authorized as the agencies charged with the enforcement of the provisions of
this title and shall enter such actions in court as are necessary. Failure of
such departments to pursue appropriate legal remedies shall not legalize any
violation of such provisions. (2004 Code § 9-2)
10-1-3: PERMITS:
From the time of the effective date hereof, the building inspector shall not
grant a permit, nor shall any county officer grant any license or permit for
the use of any land or the construction or alteration of any building or
structure on a lot which would be in violation of any provisions of this title
until a subdivision plat therefor has been recorded or approved as herein
required. Any license or permit issued in conflict with such provisions shall
be void. No building permits will be issued until the subject lot has been
improved with water, power, sewer, curb and gutter, and a dedicated serviceable
street as approved by the county engineer. (2004 Code § 9-1.2)
10-1-4: FEES:
Any and all persons filing plats with the county shall pay fees as adopted
through resolution by the county commission, county engineer, building
inspector and zoning administrator. (2004 Code § 9-1.1; amd. 2015 Code)
10-1-5: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Required: Appropriate agencies and departments of the county shall
inspect or cause to be inspected all buildings, fire hydrants and water supply
and sewage disposal systems in the course of construction, installation or
repair. Excavations for fire hydrants and water and sewer mains and laterals
shall not be covered or backfilled until such installation shall have been
approved by the county engineer or building inspector. If any such installation
is covered before being inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered after
notice to uncover has been issued to the responsible person by the inspector.
   B.   Inspection Fees: The subdivider shall post an inspection fee as shall
be established from time to time by the county commission to cover the cost of
inspections in the subdivision and inspection of the subdivision plat. Upon
completion of all improvements, the county treasurer shall refund any amount
not actually used, or, if the fund is exhausted before completion of all
improvements, the subdivider shall pay the county treasurer an amount
established by the county engineer to be sufficient to cover completion costs.
This fee shall be paid prior to the release of any bond that may have been
posted. (2004 Code § 9-3)
10-1-6: LEGAL REMEDIES:
The county, by action of the county commission, and the owner of real estate
within the zoning district in which an alleged violation of this title has
occurred may institute injunction, mandamus, abatement or other appropriate
action to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove acts or uses in violation of this
title. (2004 Code § 12; amd. 2015 Code)
10-1-7: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: No person shall subdivide any tract or parcel of land
located wholly or in part in the county except in compliance with the
provisions of this title. No person shall purchase, sell or exchange any parcel
of land which is any part of a subdivision or a proposed subdivision submitted
to the planning commission, not offer for recording in the office of the county
recorder, any deed conveying such parcel of land or any fee interest therein,
unless such subdivision has been created pursuant to and in accordance with the
provisions of this title. Each day that a violation of the provisions of any
chapter of this title is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate and independent violation. (2004 Code § 9-1.3)
   B.   Penalty: Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this title
shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction of any such
violation, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. This penalty may be imposed for each separate violation
found to exist as provided in subsection A of this section. (2004 Code § 9-1.4;
amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions Of Words And Terms
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND TERMS:
The following terms used in this title shall have the respective meanings
hereinafter set forth:
ALLEY: A public way which affords a secondary means of access to abutting
property.
AREA OF INFLUENCE: All the area in growth tier II as shown in the maps of the
Beaver County general plan.
BENCHMARK: A mark affixed to a permanent or semipermanent object for an
established elevation datum.
COLLECTOR STREET: A street which carries traffic from minor streets to the
major street system, including the principal entrance streets of residence
development and the primary circulating street within such a development.
COUNTY: Beaver County, Utah.
COUNTY ENGINEER: The person, firm or employee retained by Beaver County for
engineering purposes.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having one open end being terminated at the other by
a vehicular turnaround.
EASEMENT: The quantity of land set aside or over which a liberty, privilege or
advantage in land without profit, existing distinct from the ownership of the
land, is granted to the public or some particular person or part of the public.
FINAL PLAT: A map or chart of a subdivision which meets all of the provisions
of this title, is ready for approval by the commission and subsequent
recordation and which has been accurately surveyed and such survey marked on
the ground so that streets, alleys, blocks, lots and other division thereof can
be identified, and shall be prepared on a reproducible medium of sufficient
size for legibility (24 inches by 36 inches).
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Southwest Utah public health department.
LAND, AGRICULTURE: Land used for bona fide agricultural purposes, or which is
projected for agricultural use by the general plan or the zoning ordinance
adopted by Beaver County, but not including legally existing nonconforming uses
located in areas so projected.
LAND, COMMERCIAL: Land used for bona fide commercial purposes, or which is
projected for commercial use by the general plan or the zoning ordinance
adopted by Beaver County, except legally existing nonconforming uses in areas
designated commercial in such ordinance.
LAND, INDUSTRIAL: Land used for bona fide industrial purposes or which is
projected for industrial use by the general plan or the zoning ordinance
adopted by Beaver County, except legally existing nonconforming uses in areas
designated industrial in such ordinance.
LOT: A parcel of real property with a separate and distinct number or other
designation shown on a plat or a parcel of real property delineated on an
approved map of a record of survey, split or subparceling map as filed in the
office of the county recorder and intended as a unit for building development
or transfer of ownership.
LOT WIDTH: The width of the lot measured along the minimum building setback
line.
MAJOR STREET: A street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended to
serve as a major trafficway and which is designated on the master street plan
as a controlled access highway, major street, parkway or by equivalent terms
suitable to identify a street comprising of the basic structure of the street
plan.
MINOR STREET: A street, existing or proposed, which is supplementary to a
collector or major street and of limited continuity, which serves or is
intended to serve the local needs of a neighborhood.
OFFICIAL MAP: Any map adopted by the commission under the provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 17-27a-103(37), as amended.
OWNER: Shall include the plural as well as the singular, and may mean either a
natural person, firm, association, partnership, private corporation or any
combination thereof.
PARCEL OF LAND: A contiguous quantity of land, in the possession of, or owned
by, or recorded as the property of, the same claimant of person.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Beaver County planning commission, unless another
planning commission is specifically named.
PRELIMINARY APPROVAL: An approval, with or without recommended alterations,
given to a preliminary plat by the planning commission and provides the
necessary authority to proceed with the preparation and presentation of the
final plat.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A map or plan of a proposed land division or subdivision.
SUBDIVISION: A. Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be
divided into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other
division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale,
lease or development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other
plans, terms, and conditions.
   B.   "Subdivision" includes:
      1.   The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument; and
      2.   Except as provided in subsection C of this definition, divisions of
land for residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used
for commercial, agricultural and industrial purposes.
   C.   "Subdivision" does not include:
      1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes;
      2.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties
adjusting their mutual boundary if:
a. No new lot is created; and
b. The adjustment does not violate applicable land use ordinances;
      3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
a. Revising the legal description of more than one contiguous unsubdivided
parcel of property into one legal description encompassing all such parcels of
property; or
b. Joining a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of property that
has not been subdivided, if the joinder does not violate applicable land use
ordinances;
      4.   A bona fide division or partition of land in a county other than a
first class county for the purpose of siting, on one or more of the resulting
separate parcels:
a. An electrical transmission line or a substation;
b. A natural gas pipeline or a regulation station; or
c. An unmanned telecommunications, microwave, fiber optic, electrical or other
utility service regeneration, transformation, retransmission or amplification
facility;
      5.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
properties adjusting their mutual boundary if:
a. No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the adjustment; and
b. The adjustment will not violate any applicable land use ordinance;
      6.   A bona fide division or partition of land by deed or other
instrument where the land use authority expressly approves in writing the
division in anticipation of further land use approvals on the parcel or
parcels; or
      7.   A parcel boundary adjustment.
   D.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a subdivision under
this definition as to the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the
unsubdivided parcel to the county subdivision ordinance.
THROUGH LOT: A lot having a frontage on two (2) dedicated streets and having
the right of access to both of said streets, not including corner lots.
WATER SYSTEM, NONPUBLIC: Any potable water system that is subject to the rules
of the Southwest Utah public health department, which is any potable (culinary)
water system that is to serve less than fifteen (15) lots or less than twenty
five (25) people.
WATER SYSTEM, PUBLIC: Any potable water system that is subject to the rules of
the Utah department of environmental quality, which is any potable (culinary)
water system that is to serve fifteen (15) lots or more, or at least an average
of twenty five (25) individuals at least sixty (60) days a year. (2004 Code §
10; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE
SECTION:
10-3-1: Pre-application Meeting And Concept Plan
10-3-2:    Preliminary Plat
10-3-3:    Preliminary Plat And Subdivision Improvement Plan Approval
10-3-4:    Submittal And Review Of A Final Plat
10-3-5:    Final Plat Approval And Recordation
10-3-6:    Exemptions And Variations
10-3-1: PRE-APPLICATION MEETING AND CONCEPT PLAN:
   A.   Pre-application Meeting. An applicant for a subdivision may request a
pre-application meeting with the zoning administrator to discuss the potential
subdivision proposal.
   B.   With regard to a pre-application meeting, the following shall apply:
      1.   The applicant shall submit a concept plan for review.
      2.   The county shall, within fifteen (15) business days after the
request, review the concept plan and provide initial feedback on the proposal
and either provide or have made available on the county website the following:
         a.   Copies of the applicable land use regulations.
         b.   A complete list of standards required for the project.
         c.   Preliminary and final plat checklist.
      3.   Pre-application review of a concept plan does not create any vested
rights, nor does feedback on the concept plan grant or imply any official
standing or approval. The applicant is responsible to adhere to the chapter.
   C.   The concept plan shall include the following:
      1.   The general location of the subdivision and the property boundaries
of the proposed subdivision area.
      2.   A plan of the entire project area showing:
         a.   The general layout of the proposed subdivision and its
relationship to the adjacent properties;
         b.   The location of each proposed lot;
         c.   The lot frontage, dimensions, and size per lot;
         d.   The location, width and general configuration of proposed roads
in the subdivision;
         e.   The relationship between the existing road system and major
street plan;
         f.   Major canals and water sources in the vicinity;
         g.   Date, scale, north point, and other contextual information, such
as contours and hazard information.
      3.   Brief written statement in sufficient detail that the intent of the
subdivider is clear to those reviewing the proposals.
         a.   Current and proposed zoning.
         b.   Proposed use of the property.
         c.   Manner for complying with the improvement guarantee and any
required public improvements.
         d.   Feasibility: Review of available water resources and water and
sewer connections.
   D.   The pre-application meeting in no way shall be construed to constitute
approval of any development. The primary purpose of the pre-application meeting
is to permit the potential applicant to review with the zoning administrator
the general concept of the proposed development and to review informal feedback
from the county as to whether the development appears feasible, whether there
appear to be obvious defects in the development scheme, and whether the
proposed development is in harmony with the general plan and county ordinances.
This meeting is intended to aid the applicant in the preparation of the plans
and documents before incurring potentially unnecessary expenses of a detailed
preliminary application.
      1.   At the conclusion of the pre-application meeting, if it is
determined that a zone change or other legislative approval is necessary-such
as a code amendment, annexation, general plan amendment, public utility
easement vacation, right of way vacation, etc.-the potential applicant must
complete a zone change process prior to submitting any further subdivision
applications.
      2.   Intermediate approvals at each phase of the process shall not mean
an overall approval of the subdivision until the final plate has been approved
and recorded. (Ord. 2025-01, 3-4-2025)
10-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
This chapter outlines the process to submit and review preliminary plans.
Preliminary plans shall include the preliminary plat and subdivision
improvement plan. The intention is for the definitions and process for
application, review, and approval to follow Utah State Code 17-27a-604, et seq.
   A.   Prior Approvals: If the application requires legislative approvals,
such as a zone change, annexation, general plan amendment, right of way or
easement vacation, or any other legislative action, the legislative approval
shall be completed prior to submittal of the preliminary plan application.
   B.   Optional Pre-Application Meeting: Prior to submitting a preliminary
plan application, the applicant may request a pre-application meeting to review
the concept plan, as outlined in the prior chapter.
   C.   Application Provided: The county shall provide, or have available on
the county website, each of the following:
      1.   The preliminary plan application, with owner's affidavit and
checklist.
      2.   A breakdown of application fees.
      3.   A copy of the applicable land use ordinance.
      4.   Complete list of standards required for the project.
   D.   Submittal: To apply for preliminary plan approval, applicants must
follow instructions on the form provided by the county and submit all required
materials, including:
      1.   Complete preliminary plan application, owner's affidavit, and all
checklist items.
      2.   Application fees must be paid prior to preliminary plan acceptance.
         a.   Any additional review fees must be paid before application
approval is given.
      3.   An electronic copy of all plans in a PDF format.
      4.   Preliminary and subdivision improvement plan drawings.
      5.   All other required details, specifications, information, permits,
will-serve letters to affected entities, water conveyance facility information,
and other information as detailed in Beaver County Code, county development
standards, and any regulations by other applicable jurisdictions.
   E.   Check for Completeness: The county will review the submission for
completeness.
      1.   If the submittal includes all materials, the county receives the
submittal and starts the first review cycle.
      2.   If the submittal is found to be incomplete, the submittal is
returned to the applicant. No review shall commence until the county has made a
determination that the application is complete.
   F.   Water Conveyance Facilities: As outlined in Utah Code 17-27a-603, if
any part of the proposed subdivision is within one hundred (100) feet of a
water conveyance facility as defined below, within twenty (20) calendar days
after receipt of the completed application, the county shall send written
notice about the proposed subdivision to the water conveyance facility owner(s)
and request comments.
      1.   The notice shall request comments related to access, maintenance,
protection, safety, and any other issues related.
      2.   Any water conveyance facility shall have at least twenty (20)
calendar days to respond. While the county may provide review comments to the
applicant before this twenty (20) day window is complete, the administrative
land use authority shall not grant approval until after at least twenty (20)
days after the day on which the county mailed notice to the water conveyance
facility.
      3.   Water Conveyance Facility: Shall mean a ditch, canal, flume,
pipeline, or other watercourse used to convey water used for irrigation or
stormwater drainage and any related easement for the ditch, canal, flume,
pipeline, or other watercourse. See state code 73-1-15.5-1b.
   G.   Excavations Or Alterations Of Terrain: Excavation or alteration of the
land without consent prior to approval of the preliminary plan may be cause for
disapproval of the proposed subdivision.
   H.   County Review Time Frame: Within forty (40) business days of receipt of
a complete application the county shall complete a review of the preliminary
plan and subdivision improvement plan, except as follows:
      1.   Geological Hazard Areas: The review cycle dates do not apply to the
review of subdivision applications affecting property within identified
geological hazard areas.
      2.   Land Uses: The review cycle number of days only applies to single
family, two family, and any townhome developments, if allowed under Beaver
County Code. It does not apply to other land uses, such as commercial or
industrial development.
   I.   Determination Of Required Corrections: After review and within the
review time frame, the county determines whether the paid application meets all
requirements. If the application requires corrective actions the county shall
notify the applicant in a written response. This marks the end of the
respective review cycle.
      1.   Application Meets All Standards: If the application is found to meet
all codes, standards, and specifications, the application is forwarded to the
administrative land use authority for review and approval.
      2.   Application Requires Corrections: If the application is found to
require corrections, the county must be specific and cite the corrections that
require the modification.
         a.   Comments shall be logged in an index of requested modifications
or additions. The required corrections are sent to the applicant to prepare a
resubmittal.
      3.   Additional Information Required: The county may require additional
information relating to the applicant's plans to ensure compliance with county
ordinances and approved standards and specifications for construction of public
improvements.
   J.   Application Expiration: An application is expired if the applicant does
not respond to a request for corrections or additional information by
submitting a complete resubmittal within twelve (12) months.
   K.   Resubmittal: After the applicant receives the list of required
modifications or additions, the applicant shall provide a resubmittal that
includes a written explanation in response to each of the county's review
comments.
      1.   The response to each review comment shall identify and explain the
applicant's revisions or reasons for declining to make the revisions.
   L.   Check For Completeness: The county shall review the resubmittal to
ensure the applicant has responded to each item logged in the index of
requested modifications or additions.
      1.   Complete Resubmittal: If the response includes a complete response
to each review item, the county shall accept the application and start a
review.
      2.   Incomplete Resubmittal: If the response does not address each item,
the county shall return the submittal to the applicant.
   M.   County Review Of Resubmittal: An applicant's complete resubmittal shall
constitute a new review cycle.
      1.   Time Frame: The time frame to complete the review depends on how
quickly the applicant was able to respond to the corrections in full and if the
applicant made any material changes.
         a.   If the applicant responded within forty (40) business days, the
county has forty (40) business days to complete the second review cycle.
         b.   If the applicant responded after forty (40) business days, the
county has sixty (60) business days to complete the second review cycle.
         c.   Material Changes: If the applicant made a material change that
merits a new review, the review shall restart at the first review cycle as it
relates to the new material.
      2.   Land Uses: The review cycle number of days only applies to single
family, two-family, and townhome developments, if permitted under Wellington
County Code. It does not apply to other land uses, such as commercial,
industrial, or other multifamily development.
      3.   New Corrections: If the county neglected to include a required
change or correction in the initial review process, the modification or
correction can only be imposed on subsequent reviews if it is necessary to
protect public health and safety or to enforce state or federal law.
      4.   Determination Of Corrections Required: At the end of the county's
review, the county shall make a determination of corrections required, if any,
as outlined in subsection H.
   N.   Fourth Review Cycle: An application for preliminary plan and
subdivision improvement plan approval shall not exceed four (4) review cycles.
      1.   Fourth Review: If after the fourth (4) review cycle the application
is found to not meet all required corrections, the application shall be
forwarded to the administrative land use authority for review with a
recommendation that the application does not meet all codes, standards, and
specification.
         a.   Appeal: The applicant may appeal this determination as outlined
in Utah Code 17-27a-604.2(11), as amended.
   O.   Determination Of Readiness For Approval:
      1.   Application Ready For Approval: If the county determines that the
resubmittal is now complete and meets all codes, standards, and specifications,
the resubmittal shall be forwarded to the administrative land use authority to
complete the review.
      2.   Application Not Ready For Approval: Except for a fourth review
cycle, as outlined in subsection M, if the county finds the resubmittal does
not comply with all applicable codes, standards, and specifications, another
review letter and index of requested modifications or additions shall be
created and sent to the applicant.
      3.   The planning commission may withhold approval of a preliminary plat
for one (1) year if all or part of the area to be subdivided may be needed for
a park, school, street or other public purpose. The planning commission should
notify the appropriate agency in writing of the proposed subdivision. If proper
means have not been initiated to acquire the desired property within one (1)
year, the owner may then subdivide in compliance with the provisions of this
title.
   P.   Dispute Of Determination: If, on the fourth and final review, the
county fails to respond within forty (40) business days, the county shall, upon
request of the property owner, and within ten (10) business days after the day
on which the request is received:
      1.   Subdivision Improvement Plan Dispute: For a dispute arising from the
subdivision improvement plans, assemble an appeal panel in accordance with Utah
Code 17-27a-508(5)(d) to review and approve or deny the final revised set of
plans; or
      2.   Preliminary Plan Dispute: For a dispute arising from the subdivision
ordinance review, advise the applicant, in writing, of the deficiency in the
application and of the right to appeal the determination to a designated appeal
authority.
      3.   The appeal authority shall be the board of appeals.
   Q.   Improvements: Improvements shall not be installed nor constructed until
after final plat approval by the planning commission, and the plans,
specifications, and drawings have been approved by the county engineer, the
required inspection fees posted with the county, and a county inspector or
inspectors have been assigned to the project. Improvements shall not be
accepted until all the required improvements have been installed to county
standards. (Ord. 2025-01, 3-4-2025)
10-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT AND SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PLAN APPROVAL:
   A.   Administrative Land Use Authority (ALUA): The planning and zoning
commission shall serve as the administrative land use authority for all
subdivisions, excluding minor lot and simple lot divisions, as defined in
section 10-3-6. For these specific land divisions, the zoning administrator
shall act as the ALUA.
   B.   Review At Public Meeting: The planning and zoning commission shall
conduct a review in a public meeting to determine whether to approve the
application.
      1.   A courtesy notice shall be sent to all owners of properties
immediately adjacent to the proposed subdivision. One forth (¼) mile
notification.
   C.   Determination: After review, the administrative land use authority
shall make one of the following determinations:
      1.   Approval: If the administrative land use authority finds the
applicant has completed all requirements addressed during review, and the
proposed plat and subdivision improvement plan comply with the requirements of
this chapter and all adopted standards and specifications, then it shall
approve the preliminary plat and subdivision improvement plan.
      2.   Corrections Required: The administrative land use authority shall
remand the application back to the applicant for a new review cycle, unless the
applicant has already completed four (4) review cycles, if the administrative
land use authority finds that either:
         a.   The applicant has not completed all requirements as outlined in
the review index, or
         b.   The application does not address all requirements, and although
the item was not addressed in the first review, the requirement relates
directly to public health and safety.
      3.   Denial: The administrative land use authority shall deny the
application if either:
         a.   The applicant is unwilling to make required corrections or
provide required information, or
         b.   The application has completed the fourth (4) review cycle and the
applicant has failed to meet the stated requirements.
   D.   Duration of Approval: Approval of the preliminary plans shall be valid
for a period of twelve (12) months.
      1.   If, within twelve (12) months of approval, an applicant has not
submitted a complete final plat application, the preliminary plat and
subdivision improvement plan approval is deemed to have lapsed and the
applicant will need to obtain a new approval before proceeding to a final plat.
(Ord. 2025-01, 3-4-2025)
10-3-4: SUBMITTAL AND REVIEW OF A FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Time Frame: Within twelve (12) months after approval of the preliminary
plan and subdivision improvement plan the applicant must make a complete final
plat submittal.
   B.   Optional Pre-Application Meeting: An applicant may request a pre-
application meeting. If so, the county and the applicant shall follow the
provisions of Beaver County Code
10-3-1  before proceeding to the next step.
   C.   Application Provided: The county shall provide, or have available on
the county website, each of the following:
      1.   The final plat application and owner's affidavit.
      2.   Final plat checklist.
      3.   A breakdown of application fees.
      4.   A copy of the applicable land use ordinance.
      5.   Complete list of standards required for the project.
   D.   Submittal: Application is made by following instructions on the form
provided by the county and submitting all required materials, including the
following:
      1.   A complete application.
      2.   A (PDF) file of the plat.
      3.   All fees for the final plat application.
      4.   All information required on the final plat checklist.
   E.   Check for Completeness: The county checks the submittal for
completeness.
      1.   Complete Submittal: If the submittal includes all materials, the
county receives the submittal and starts the review.
      2.   Incomplete Submittal: If the submittal is found to be incomplete,
the submittal is returned to the applicant. No review shall commence until the
county has made a determination that the application is complete.
   F.   County Review Time Frame: After a determination that the application
submittal is complete, the county begins its review. The county has a thirty
(30) business day review window to conduct its review and provide comments to
the applicant.
      1.   Land Uses: The review cycle number of days only applies to single
family, two family, and any townhome developments, if permitted. It does not
apply to other land uses, such as commercial, industrial, or other multifamily
development.
   G.   Water Conveyance Facilities: As outlined in Utah Code 17-27a-603, if
any part of the proposed subdivision is within one hundred (100) feet of a
water conveyance facility as defined below, within twenty (20) calendar days
after receipt of the completed application, the county shall send written
notice about the proposed subdivision to the water conveyance facility owner(s)
and request comments.
      1.   The notice shall request comments related to access, maintenance,
protection, safety, and any other issues related.
   2.   Any water conveyance facility shall have at least twenty (20) calendar
days to respond. While the county may provide comments to the    applicant
before this twenty (20) day window is complete, the administrative land use
authority shall not grant approval until after at least twenty (20) calendar
days after the day on which the county mailed notice to the water conveyance
facility.
      3.   Water Conveyance Facility: Shall mean a ditch, canal, flume,
pipeline, or other watercourse used to convey water used for irrigation or
stormwater drainage and any related easement for the ditch, canal, flume,
pipeline, or other watercourse. See State Code 73-1-15.5-1b.
   H.   Attorney Review: During review, the county attorney shall review the
final plat and shall recommend approval if the attorney finds that:
      1.   There is a current title opinion from a licensed title company
showing that the person dedicating the property described on the final plat is
the title owner as shown on the records of the Beaver County recorder's office
and any encumbrances have been satisfactorily addressed.
      2.   The performance bond, escrow deposit, letter of credit, or trust
deed with the county is in appropriate form and signed by the necessary
parties.
      3.   That the subdivision does not, in the attorney's opinion, violate
any ordinance of the county or the laws of the State of Utah of the rules and
regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.
   I.   Determination Of Corrections Required: Within the review window
specified in subsection F. the county shall complete a review of the final plat
and all submittal contents and provide a response to the applicant. The county
shall determine whether the completed application meets all requirements or
requires corrective actions and shall notify the applicant in a written
response.
      1.   Application Meets All Standards: If the application is found to meet
all codes, standards, and specifications, the application is forwarded to the
administrative land use authority for review and approval.
      2.   Application Requires Corrections: If the application is found to
require corrections, the county must be specific and cite the ordinance,
statute, or specifications that require the modification. Comments shall be
logged in an index of requested modifications or additions. The required
corrections are sent to the applicant to prepare a resubmittal.
      3.   Additional Information Required: The county may require additional
information relating to the applicant's plans to ensure compliance with county
ordinances and approved standards and specifications.
   J.   Application Expiration: An application is expired if the applicant does
not respond to a request for corrections by submitting a complete resubmittal
within twelve (12) months.
   K.   Resubmittal: If corrections were required, the applicant shall provide
a resubmittal. The resubmittal shall include a written explanation in response
to each of the county's review comments, identifying and explaining the
applicant's revisions or reasons for declining to make the revisions.
   L.   Check For Completeness: The county shall check the resubmittal to
ensure that the applicant has responded to each item logged in the index of
requested modifications or additions.
      1.   Complete Resubmittal: If the response includes a complete response
to each review item, the county shall accept the application and start a new
review cycle.
      2.   Incomplete Resubmittal: If the response does not address each item,
the county shall return the submittal to the applicant.
   M.   Time Frame To Review: If the resubmittal is complete, the county shall
review the application and provide written comments within the applicable
review window, as outlined in subsection F.
   N.   Determination Of Corrections Required: At the end of the county's
review, the county shall make a determination of corrections required, if any,
and take action as outlined in subsection I.
   O.   Dispute Of Determination: If, on the fourth and final review, the
county fails to respond within forty (40) business days, the county shall, upon
request of the property owner, and within ten (10) business days after the day
on which the request is received:
      1.   Advise the applicant, in writing, of the deficiency in the
application and the right to appeal the determination to a designated appeal
authority.
         a.   The appeal authority shall be the board of appeals. (Ord. 2025-
01, 3-4-2025)
10-3-5: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL AND RECORDATION:
   A.   Ready For Final Approval: Once all individuals the county has delegated
to review the application have found the final plat application to be in
conformity, the plat will be submitted to the administrative land use authority
for approval.
   B.   Administrative Land Use Authority: For final plat approval, the
administrative land use authority shall be a board or individual appointed by
the county commission.
      1.   The administrative land use authority may not be, or include members
of, the county commission or planning and zoning commission.
      2.   No public hearing is required for the subdivision final plat
approval.
   C.   Determination: The administrative land use authority shall make a final
decision. This does not need to occur in a public meeting. The administrative
land use authority shall grant one of the following:
      1.   Approval: The administrative land use authority shall approve the
final plat if it finds:
         a.   The proposed plat complies with the requirements of town code,
Utah State Code, and all other applicable policies and regulations, and
         b.   The plat has been approved by all regulatory bodies, such as a
culinary water authority and the county health department, as applicable.
      2.   Denial (Or Remand): The administrative land use authority may deny
or remand the proposed final plat if:
         a.   The administrative land use authority finds the applicant has not
provided a complete, accurate, and satisfactory response to all comments during
review and any other non-compliance with applicable regulations.
         b.   The applicant is unwilling to make required corrections or
provide required information.
   D.   Appeal: Any appeal shall be consistent with the provisions of Utah Code
17-27a-604.2.
   E.   Signing The Plat: If approved, the subdivider shall submit a mylar of
the final plat and supporting documents to the county in a format approved by
the county zoning administrator and the county recorder's office.
      1.   The county recorder, planning and zoning commission chair,
treasurer, county attorney, zoning administrator, surveyor of record, county
surveyor, shall sign the final plat.
   F.   Public Improvements: Upon approval by the administrative land use
authority, the subdivider shall proceed to address public improvements.
Specific regulations for the performance guarantee, also known as security for
completion, are found in chapter 10, General Design Standards For Construction
And Development.
      1.   At Risk: The subdivider may elect to construct all required public
improvements prior to recording the plat. Permits and construction for any
public improvements shall not be issued until the plat has been approved the
administrative land use authority.
         a.   In no case shall the final plat be recorded at the office of the
Beaver County recorder until all improvements have been completed, inspected,
and accepted by the county.
      2.   Performance Guarantee Bond: In lieu of immediately completing public
improvements, the subdivider may post or make arrangements suitable to the
county for posting a bond or other financial assurance guaranteeing
construction of the required improvements.
         a.   The subdivider shall submit an engineer's cost estimate of the
required public improvements.
         b.   The county engineer shall review the cost estimate to ensure the
estimate accurately reflects the work to be performed and reasonably
anticipated costs.
         c.   The performance guarantee shall be in the amount of one hundred
percent (100%) of project costs plus ten percent (10%) for administrative
costs, for a total of one hundred ten percent (110%).
      3.   All inspection, testing and/or connection fees required by ordinance
shall be paid and permits required shall be obtained prior to the recording of
the final plat.
   G.   Correcting Mistakes At Recordation: The county engineer may approve
minor modifications to approved final plats before the final plat is recorded
if the engineer finds the proposed modifications are in line with the intent of
the approval and do not jeopardize the interest of the county or adjoining
property owners.
      1.   The types of minor amendments contemplated in this section include
legal description mistakes, surveyor errors-such as tie in description
mistakes, typos, and items agreed to that should have been included in writing
on the final plat. Any substantive change requires reapproval.
   H.   Recording: Following approval, the county shall deposit the final plat,
bearing all official approvals, in the office of the Beaver County recorder for
recording.
      1.   Only the county may record final plats.
      2.   The final plat must be recorded within one (1) year of approval. If
the final plat is not recorded within one (1) year of plat approval, the
approval expires and the plat must be resubmitted.
         a.   The county and developer can enter into an agreement for
alternative timeline for an applicant who elects to construct all public
improvements "at risk."
      3.   After the plat has successfully been recorded by the office of the
county recorder, the owner may proceed to convey title to the lots as described
on the recorded plat.
   I.   Releases Of Performance Guarantees: After the plat is recorded, if the
subdivider has elected to post a performance guarantee, the subdivider may
apply for a permit to complete public improvements.
      1.   All partial and final releases of performance guarantees shall be
approved by action of the county commission. The granting of the final release
by the county commission shall constitute the acceptance of the improvements by
the county. (Ord. 2025-01, 3-4-2025)
10-3-6: EXEMPTIONS AND VARIATIONS:
   A.   Exemptions: Any land divided for any purpose into two (2) or more parts
after the passage date hereof, shall be subject to the provisions and
regulations herein, except the following, which are exempt therefrom:
      1.   Land divisions which are bona fide divisions or partitions of
agricultural land for agricultural purposes, as defined herein.
      2.   Land divisions which are bona fide divisions or partitions of
commercial land for commercial purposes, as defined herein.
      3.   Land divisions which are bona fide divisions or partitions of
industrial land for industrial purposes, as defined herein.
      4.   Subdivisions of less than ten (10) lots shall be considered as a
minor subdivision and is not be required to file a final plat or to record a
plat prior to sale of lots by metes and bounds description; provided, that:
         a.   A recommendation has been received from the administrative land
use authority (ALUA).
         b.   The deed contains a stamp or other mark indicating that the
subdivision has been approved by:
            (1)   The zoning administrator; or ALUA.
         c.   The subdivision is not traversed by the mapped lines of a
proposed street as shown in the general plan and does not require the
dedication of any land for street or other public purposes.
         d.   If the subdivision is located in a zoned area, each lot in the
subdivision meets the frontage, width and area requirements of the zoning
ordinance or has been granted a variance from those requirements by the board
of adjustment.
         e.   The dimensions of the lots as shown on the preliminary plat are
precise and the descriptions close. The accuracy shall be the same as required
for a final plat.
         f.   Each lot in the subdivision has been, or will be, provided with
improvements as required in this title and the subdivision regulations for
minor subdivision application.
   B.   Variations: Where unusual topographic or other exceptional conditions
exist, the planning commission may vary the requirements of this title after
receiving the recommendations of the zoning administrator; provided, that such
variations will not substantially impair the intent of this title.
   C.   Simple Subdivision: A simple subdivision application may be approved to
divide one (1) parcel of land into two (2), provided the parcel meets all the
requirements outlined in section
10-3-6 -1(d). All land use regulations must be followed, including the simple
subdivision application. (Ord. 2025-01, 3-4-2025)
CHAPTER 4
PLANS AND PLATS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Concept Plan
10-4-2: Preliminary Plat
10-4-3: Final Plat
10-4-4: Amending Subdivision Plat
10-4-1: CONCEPT PLAN:
   A.   Submittal: The subdivider shall submit three (3) copies of a concept
plan to the zoning administrator along with the application for concept plan
review, for review and discussion on site plan and general scope and
conditions. The plan shall include the following items:
      1.   The proposed name of subdivision.
      2.   A vicinity plan showing significant natural and manmade features on
the site and within one-half (1/2) mile of any portion of it, the property
boundaries of the proposed subdivision, the names of adjacent property owners
and true north.
      3.   A proposed lot and street layout, indicating general scaled
dimensions of lots.
      4.   A description of the type of water system proposed, also,
documentation of water rights, and of historic water use.
      5.   A description of the sewer collection system proposed.
      6.   The acreage of the entire tract proposed for the subdivision.
      7.   A written statement on the intent of the subdivider, and such other
information as in his opinion may establish the feasibility, design criteria
and overall impact of the proposed subdivision. (2004 Code § 3-1)
   B.   Review Procedure:
      1.   The zoning administrator shall, upon receipt of the complete
submission and fee, distribute copies of the plan to such government
departments and other agencies as in the opinion of the administrator may
contribute to a decision in the best interests of the public. The zoning
administrator or authorized representative shall review the concept plan
submittal and determine compliance with the county master plan, zoning
ordinance, this title and other regulations of the county.
      2.   The zoning administrator or authorized representative shall notify
the subdivider of the concept plan review findings, including questionable
design or engineering feasibility, inadequacy of submittal, noncompliance with
county regulations, and the need for other information which may assist the
planning commission to evaluate the proposed subdivision.
      3.   If it is determined by the zoning administrator that the proposed
subdivision would violate county ordinances and regulations, no further review
of the proposed subdivision shall be made by the zoning administrator, and a
new concept plan shall be required to reinitiate the subdivision process.
      4.   Other than as above mentioned, the review of the concept plan shall
not constitute an absolute disapproval of the proposed subdivision, but rather
shall operate in such a manner as to give the subdivider guidance as to the
requirements and constraints for subdivisions within the county, until such
time as the requirements of the planning commission are complied with and an
approval of the concept plan is granted.
      5.   Once concept plan approval is granted, the subdivider may apply for
preliminary design plan approval. If preliminary design plan approval for a
proposed subdivision has not been obtained within six (6) months of the date on
which the concept plan was approved, a resubmittal of the concept plan shall be
required by the zoning administrator prior to filing an application for
preliminary design plan approval. (2004 Code § 3-2)
10-4-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Submittal: The subdivider shall submit a preliminary design plan and
preliminary design plan review fee, along with the application for preliminary
plat review to the zoning office, on or before the third Friday of the month
preceding the month in which the subdivider desires to be on the agenda of the
planning commission regular meeting.
   B.   Plat Requirements: The preliminary plat shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   Description: In a title block located in the lower right corner of
the sheet shall appear the following:
         a.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
         b.   The location of the subdivision, including the section, township
and range.
         c.   The name and address of the owner or subdivider if other than the
owner.
         d.   North point.
         e.   Scale shall be of sufficient size to adequately describe in
legible form all required conditions of this title.
      2.   Existing Conditions: The plat shall show:
         a.   Vicinity map showing the general location of the subdivision.
         b.   The boundary of the proposed subdivision and the acreage
included.
         c.   The location of the nearest monument.
         d.   All property under the control of the subdivider, even though
only a portion is being subdivided. Where the plat submitted covers only a part
of the subdivider's tract, a sketch of the prospective street system of the
unplatted parts of the subdivider's land shall be submitted, and the street
system of the part submitted shall be considered in the light of existing
master street plans or other planning commission studies.
         e.   The location, width and names of all existing streets within two
hundred feet (200') of the subdivision and of all prior platted streets or
other public ways, utility rights of way, parks and other public open spaces,
permanent buildings, structures, houses or permanent easements and section
lines, within and adjacent to the tract.
         f.   The location of all wells, proposed, active and abandoned, and
all reservoirs within the tract and to a distance of at least one hundred feet
(100') beyond the tract boundaries.
         g.   Existing sewers, water main, culverts or other underground
facilities within the tract and to a distance of at least one hundred feet
(100') beyond the tract boundaries, indicating the pipe sizes, grades, manholes
and exact location.
         h.   Existing ditches, canals, natural drainage channels and open
waterways, and proposed realignments.
         i.   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided land, showing
ownership where possible.
         j.   Contour lines at vertical intervals not greater than five feet
(5') and two feet (2') when specified by the county surveyor. The plat shall
designate whether the contours are two feet (2') or five feet (5').
      3.   Proposed Plan: The subdivision plan shall show:
         a.   The layout of streets, showing location, widths and other
dimensions of proposed streets, crosswalks, alleys and easements.
         b.   The layout, numbers and typical dimensions of lots.
         c.   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use or set aside for use of property owners in the subdivision.
         d.   Building setback lines required by the planning commission.
         e.   Easements for water, sewers, drainage, utility lines and other
purposes.
         f.   Typical street cross sections and grade streets where required by
the planning commission.
         g.   A tentative plan or method by which the subdivider proposes to
handle stormwater drainage for the subdivision.
         h.   Approximate radius of all centerline curves on highways or
streets.
         i.   For all new subdivisions proposing to use a public water system
in which the developer has any interest whatsoever in the water company
providing water to the subdivision, a letter from the state department of
environmental quality, approving the quantity, quality and feasibility of
providing culinary water to the subdivision. For all subdivisions or additional
phases of subdivisions, proposing to use a nonpublic water system, receiving
final plat approval after June 10, 1997, a letter of feasibility from the
Southwest Utah public health department.
For subdivisions served from existing, approved water companies, in which the
developer has no financial interest whatsoever in the water company, a letter
from the water company agreeing to provide water to the subdivision. The amount
of water provided will also be indicated by the water company. It is understood
that the department of environmental quality (DEQ) makes periodic checks of
existing water companies to determine compliance with DEQ requirements.
         j.   A letter from Southwest Utah public health department and/or the
state department of environmental quality approving the feasibility of the
method of wastewater disposal system proposed.
         k.   Where necessary, copies of any agreements with adjacent property
owners relevant to the proposed subdivision shall be presented to the planning
commission.
         l.   A letter from the public service commission approving the type of
water company being proposed by the developer, whether it is a privately owned
public water system, a mutual water system, or a private water system having
less than fifteen (15) connections.
         m.   A subdivision title report prepared by a licensed title company.
(2004 Code § 4-1)
   C.   Copy Retained By Planning Commission: The planning commission shall
retain one copy of the plat for its files. (2004 Code § 4-2)
10-4-3: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Submission: Subdivider shall submit the final plat and final plat
review fee along with the final plat review application to the zoning office,
on or before the third Friday of the month preceding the month in which the
subdivider desires to be on the agenda of the planning commission regular
meeting.
   B.   Plat Requirements: The final plat must be prepared by a licensed land
surveyor on a standard tracing linen sheet and shall be drawn with waterproof
black india ink. The top of the plat shall be either north or east, whichever
accommodates the drawing best. The plat shall contain all information required
on the preliminary plat, except contours, and shall comply with the following:
      1.   Description And Delineation: The final plat shall show:
         a.   The name of the subdivision, which name must be approved by the
planning commission and the county recorder's office.
         b.   An identification system for all lots and blocks and names of
streets. Lot lines shall show dimensions in feet and hundredths.
         c.   Monumentation and survey control.
            (1)   All United States, state, county, city or other official
monuments shall be identified on the plat. The location of said monuments shall
be accurately tied to the subdivision by true bearing and distance.
            (2)   Street monuments shall be installed by the subdivider in
accordance with the requirements of the county surveyor and in locations
indicated on the plat.
            (3)   All street centerline data and street widths shall be shown
with ties to property lines, lot corners, etc.
            (4)   All lot corners shall be permanently staked with steel
markers.
         d.   Radii, internal angles, points and curvature, tangent bearings
and the length of all arcs.
         e.   The acreage of each lot in the subdivision.
         f.   The address of each lot within the subdivision.
         g.   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and
of any area to be reserved by deed or covenant for common uses of all property
owners.
         h.   Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property
controlled by a public agency or utility company, said agency shall be a party
to the street dedication and their signature shall appear on the final plat in
a form approved by the county attorney.
         i.   The developer's engineer shall prepare an itemized estimate of
the cost of all required improvements to be developed in the subdivision. This
estimate shall be reviewed for approval by the county engineer.
         j.   All required easements along all property lines shall be ten feet
(10').
         k.   Final plats of all subdivisions, or phases of where on site
wastewater disposal systems are proposed, shall include the final percolation
results, and soil strata depths and classifications as per the unified soil
classification method, for each lot proposed, over the signature of the
engineer, or other person certified to conduct such tests. The location of the
approved absorption site shall be shown as a, or a similar symbol. This
requirement shall not include those subdivisions where on site wastewater
disposal feasibility approval was issued before December 9, 1997.
      2.   Forms: The standard forms for the following: The final plat shall
require:
         a.   A registered professional land surveyor's "certificate of
survey".
         b.   The owner's "certificate of dedication" or a "corporate
certificate for corporations".
         c.   A notary public's "acknowledgment".
         d.   The county surveyor's "certificate of approval".
         e.   The county treasurer's "certificate of approval".
         f.   The county attorney's "certificate of approval".
         g.   The county planning commission's "certificate of approval".
         h.   The county commission's "certificate of approval".
         i.   A one and one-half inch by five inch (11/2" x 5") space in the
lower right hand corner of the drawing for the county recorder's use.
      3.   County Commission Approval; Recording:
         a.   A final subdivision plat shall, after receiving planning
commission approval, be submitted for and receive final approval from the
county commission and shall be recorded within one year of planning commission
approval. Any plat not recorded within this time shall be considered to be void
and if later considered for approval, it shall be resubmitted as a preliminary
plat to the planning commission. A new filing fee shall be paid, unless
otherwise waived by the commission. (2004 Code § 5-1)
         b.   No final plat of a subdivision of land shall be recorded, except
as provided by subsection 10-3-2C of this title, without having been signed by
the chairperson of the county commission certifying that all conditions of this
title have been met and that the bonds as required by this title have been
posted with the county treasurer. (2004 Code § 6-1)
   C.   Information Submitted: The following information shall be submitted:
      1.   Tax Certification: Prior to recording the final plat, the county
treasurer shall certify that all taxes or special assessments payable on all
property within the limits of the subdivision are paid in full, or a letter
stating that a satisfactory bond has been filed to secure such payment.
      2.   Deed Restrictions: One copy of any proposed deed restrictions in
final form as is proposed to be recorded with the final plat, shall be
submitted to the planning department at the time of submitting the final plat.
      3.   Roads Disclaimer: For roads not proposed to be dedicated to the
public, a disclaimer statement and notice to property owners shall be shown on
the final plat and shall read as follows:
NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS:
The streets and roads shown on this map are private easements to be granted to
each property owner by deed for purpose of ingress and egress. There are no
public streets, roadways, alleyways, or other public places on the map nor is
there any intent to dedicate any public streets, roadways, alleyways, or other
public places at this time.
NOTICE OF DISCLAIMER:
The county of Beaver specifically DOES NOT accept dedication of the roads and
streets in this subdivision, and thereby will not be responsible for the
construction, maintenance or upkeep of the roads and streets in this
subdivision.
      4.   Conformance Of Applicable Rules And Regulations: In addition to the
requirements established herein, all subdivision plats shall comply with all
applicable laws, plans and regulations, including, but not limited to:
         a.   The County zoning ordinance, Building and Housing Codes and all
other applicable ordinances of the County.
         b.   The official general plan, including all streets and utility
systems, and parks shown on the official map or general plan, as adopted.
         c.   Requirements of the State Department of Transportation, Health
Department or other appropriate State agencies.
         d.   The standards, regulations and policies adopted by the County
Engineer and/or surveyor, all boards, commissions, agencies and officials of
the County.
      5.   Self-Imposed Restrictions: If the owner places restrictions on any
of the land contained in the subdivision greater than those required by the
zoning ordinance or these regulations, such restrictions or reference thereto
may be required to be indicated on the subdivision plat, or the Planning
Commission may require that restrictive covenants be recorded with the County
Recorder in form to be approved by the County Attorney.
      6.   Character Of Land: Land which the Planning Commission finds to be
unsuitable for subdivision or development due to flooding, improper drainage,
steep slopes, rock formation, adverse earth formations or topography, utility
easements or other features which will reasonably be harmful to the safety,
health and general welfare of the present or future inhabitants of the
subdivision and/or its surrounding areas, shall not be subdivided or developed
unless adequate methods are formulated by the developer and approved by the
County Commission upon recommendation of the County Engineer, to solve the
problems created by the unsuitable land conditions. Such land shall be set
aside for uses as shall not involve such a danger.
      7.   Posting Of Bonds And Inspection Fees: Prior to signing by the
Chairperson of the County Commission, the County Treasurer shall certify that
all required bonds and inspection fees as required by this title have been
posted.
      8.   Water, Sewer And Roadway Plans; Inspections: Plans for required
water and sewer systems, and roadways, shall be prepared as required by this
title and shall be approved by the County Engineer prior to any construction
work being undertaken. In addition, an inspector shall be assigned to the
project by the County and the inspector shall be notified whenever work is
being done. No utility lines may be covered until after approval by the
assigned inspector. (2004 Code § 5-2)
10-4-4: AMENDING SUBDIVISION PLAT:
   A.   Schedule: Subdivision plats may be amended from time to time according
to the following schedule:
      1.   Subdivisions having minor changes in which no new lots are created,
or in which lots are deleted or reduced in number, or where lot lines are
moved, the requirements of subsection B of this section may be followed.
      2.   Subdivisions amended for the purpose of creating new and/or
additional lots in the subdivision shall be treated as though they were a
complete new subdivision. All current requirements of this title shall be met
unless otherwise waived by the Planning Commission and the County Commission.
   B.   Requirements For Adjustment: Petitions to adjust lot lines between
adjoining properties may be executed upon the recordation of an appropriate
deed, if all of the following are met:
      1.   No new dwelling lot or housing unit results from the lot line
adjustment;
      2.   That all adjoining property owners consent to the lot line
adjustment;
      3.   The lot line adjustment does not result in a remnant piece of land
that did not exist previously;
      4.   The lot line adjustment does not result in a violation of any
applicable zoning district requirements. The County Recorder may request a
review of the materials presented for a lot line adjustment by the Zoning
Administrator, and the Recorder may notify the involved parties of any
violation to Beaver County ordinances. (Ord. 2018-09, 10-2-2018)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED
SECTION:
10-5-1: Sewer Proposals And Construction Plans
10-5-2: Storm Drainage
10-5-3: Street Improvements
10-5-4: Fire Flow And Line Size Standards
10-5-5: Water System
10-5-6: Electrical System And Telephone Service
10-5-7: Fences And Cattle Guards
10-5-1: SEWER PROPOSALS AND CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
   A.   Approval Required: Sanitary sewers, septic tanks or any other means of
wastewater disposal proposed shall be approved in writing by the state
department of environmental quality, and/or the Southwest Utah public health
department. All subdivisions, or additional phases of existing subdivisions,
proposing the use of on site wastewater disposal systems, not having final plat
approval before December 9, 1997, shall comply with the Southwest Utah public
health department's wastewater ordinance effective that date. If a central
collection system is used, it shall be fully constructed at the same time and
by the same method as is required for all other improvements in the
subdivision.
   B.   Final Plans: The final plans for the sewage system shall be prepared by
a licensed engineer and approved by the county engineer. Construction shall not
be commenced until all plans have been approved, inspection fee paid, and an
inspector has been assigned to the project. (2004 Code § 6-1)
10-5-2: STORM DRAINAGE:
   A.   System May Be Required: A stormwater drainage system may be required
after an evaluation by the subdivision engineer and approved by the county
engineer. If required, the system shall be separate and independent of the
sanitary sewage system. The final plans for the drainage system shall be
prepared by a licensed engineer and approved by the county engineer prior to
any construction taking place.
   B.   Use Of Ditch Or Canal Requires Approval: No ditch or canal shall be
approved as suitable for the use of storm drainage water without the written
permission of the appropriate ditch or canal company or of the water users for
such use. No ditch or canal shall be used for stormwater unless adequately
improved to handle such water as might be reasonably expected to flow from
canal ditch water, subdivision runoff water and other water expected to reach
such canal or ditch.
   C.   Open Ditches, Canals: Open ditches or canals shall not be allowed
within or adjoining a subdivision. The subdivider shall work with irrigation
companies as to the responsibility for the periodic inspection, cleaning and
maintenance of such ditches, pipes and culverts. In cases where canals or
ditches cross public roads or proposed public roads, specifications and grades
for pipe or culvert must be approved by the county engineer.
   D.   Fencing Around Hazardous Water Areas: All open ditches, canals,
waterways, nonaccess streets, open reservoirs or bodies of water, and other
features judged by the planning commission to be of hazardous nature, on,
crossing or adjacent to property being subdivided shall be fenced or closed
from access in a manner satisfactory to and approved by the planning
commission. (2004 Code § 6-1)
10-5-3: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Construction Plans And Profiles: At least eight (8) days prior to final
planning commission consideration, the subdivider shall furnish to the county
engineer a complete set of construction plans and profiles of all streets,
existing and proposed, within the subdivision. Plans are to be prepared by a
licensed engineer and shall be accompanied by the final plat. If the plans are
not approved, they shall be returned to the subdivider with the reasons for
nonapproval, and, upon correction, shall be resubmitted in the same manner as
required herein. Such plans and profiles shall include:
      1.   The designation of limits of work to be done.
      2.   The location of the benchmark and its true elevation according to
county datum, all profiles to be referred to that datum.
      3.   Construction plans which include the details of curb and gutter and
street cross sections, location and elevations of manholes, catch basins and
storm sewers, elevations and location of fire hydrants and any other detail
necessary to simplify construction.
      4.   Adequate horizontal and vertical survey control shall be established
as required by the county surveyor. Sufficient survey monuments shall be
permanently set so that lot boundaries can be established from points within
the subdivision.
      5.   Complete data for field layout and office checking.
      6.   On curb returns, at least two (2) additional control points of
curvature. Control points shall be staked in the field to ensure drainage of
intersections.
   B.   Street Grades: Grades of streets shall not be in excess of eight
percent (8%) on major collector streets, nor in excess of fifteen percent (15%)
on other streets. (2004 Code § 6-1)
   C.   Improvement Standards: All streets within the county shall be improved
in accordance with the standards, rules and regulations adopted by the county
commission. See construction standards available from the county zoning
administrator. Said standards may include: (2004 Code § 6-1; amd. 2015 Code)
      1.   Whenever a subdivision falls within the area of influence of an
incorporated community, the development standard of that community shall be
followed for street improvements unless said standard is less than the normal
county requirement. The planning commission may require curb and gutter in
subdivisions of less than two and one-half (21/2) acres and larger than forty
thousand (40,000) square feet when physical conditions make it necessary, in
the opinion of the planning commission, to do so.
      2.   Pavements bonded by integral concrete curbs and gutters shall be
required in all subdivisions, with lots of less than forty thousand (40,000)
square feet.
      3.   Pavements without curb and gutter in subdivisions with lots greater
than two and one-half (21/2) acres where conditions, in the opinion of the
planning commission, require paved streets or where adjacent communities.
      4.   A gravel surface finished with a minimum of six inches (6") of
compacted road base gravel in subdivisions with lots larger than two and one-
half (21/2) acres (additional gravel may be required under specific
construction conditions). Lots of two and one-half (21/2) acres or less shall
be paved in accordance with the county pavement specifications. (2004 Code § 6-
1)
      5.   The minimum width of gravel or paved surface on all local streets
shall be twenty eight feet (28') wide. On collector or major streets, as
determined by the planning commission, the width of gravel or paving will be
proportionately greater. (2004 Code § 6-1; amd. 2015 Code)
      6.   Local streets shall have a minimum right of way width of fifty six
feet (56'). Collector streets shall have a minimum width of sixty six feet
(66'). Major streets shall have a minimum width of eighty two and one-half feet
(821/2').
      7.   All streets shall be built to the full width required for the type
of street being improved at the time of initial street construction. Bond
amounts shall be estimated based on the cost of full street improvements as
required by the right of width determined by subsection C6 of this section.
   D.   Pavement Construction: Pavements shall be constructed in accordance
with the requirements of the standard specifications adopted by the county
commission.
   E.   Curbs And Gutters: Curbs and gutters on all streets shall be of
concrete and shall meet the standard county specifications.
   F.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks, where constructed, shall be of concrete and shall
meet the standard county specifications.
   G.   Stormwater Inlets And Catch Basins: Stormwater inlets and catch basins
shall be provided within the roadway improvements at points specified by the
county engineer.
   H.   Curb Corners: All curb corners shall have a radius of not less than
fifteen feet (15') and at intersections involving collector or major streets,
of not less than twenty five feet (25').
   I.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall approach major or collector streets
at as near ninety degrees (90o) as possible.
   J.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs, conforming to the design and
specifications and in the number necessary for proper identification of all
streets, shall be provided for and installed by the developer.
   K.   Traffic Control Signs: Traffic control signs, including stop or yield
right of way signs, shall be installed to ensure a smooth flow of traffic
through the subdivision as required by the county.
   L.   Centerline Radius: A minimum centerline radius of fifty feet (50')
shall be maintained on all winding mountainous streets and a minimum of three
hundred feet (300') shall be required on all through traffic streets.
   M.   Frontage And Width: No subdivision shall be approved unless the area to
be subdivided shall have frontage, with a width as required by the zoning
ordinance, on a dedicated street improved to county standards, unless otherwise
approved by the commission. On cul-de-sac streets, the required width of any
lot in the cul-de-sac shall be measured at the setback line instead of the
street lot line.
   N.   Access To Collector Or Arterial Street: Where a subdivision borders on
or contains an existing or proposed collector or arterial street, access to
such street may be limited by one of the following means:
      1.   The subdivision of lots so as to back onto the arterial or collector
and front onto a parallel local street. No lot access shall be provided from
the arterial or collector directly to any lot in the subdivision and screening
or fencing may be required in a strip of land along the rear property line of
such lots.
      2.   A series of cul-de-sacs or U-shaped streets sharing access to such
street.
      3.   A service road (separated from the primary arterial by a planting or
grass strip and having access thereto at suitable points). (2004 Code § 6-1)
   O.   Dead End Streets: The arrangement of streets shall provide for the
continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is in accordance with the master plan. If the adjacent property is
undeveloped and the street must be a dead end street temporarily, the right of
way shall be extended to the property line and a temporary turnaround shall be
provided. Dead end streets shall be avoided and dead end streets of more than
one thousand six hundred feet (1,600') shall require planning commission
approval. (2004 Code § 6-1; amd. 2015 Code)
   P.   Inspection And Recommendation: The inspection and written
recommendation for approval of county roads and streets shall be done by the
county engineer's office. Final acceptance for dedication and, after one year,
for maintenance, shall be by the county commission following a favorable
recommendation from the county engineer's office. (2004 Code § 6-1)
   Q.   Commencement Of Construction: Following final approval of a subdivision
plat by the planning commission, the developer may construct roadways and
utility systems prior to final county commission approval and recording of the
plat without the necessity of bonding. However, no construction shall begin
until all construction drawings have been approved by the county engineer, the
necessary inspection fees have been paid, and a county inspector has been
assigned to the construction project. The inspector shall be notified, in
advance, whenever any work is proposed to be done. (2004 Code § 6-1; amd. 2015
Code)
10-5-4: FIRE FLOW AND LINE SIZE STANDARDS:
   A.   Fire Flows:
      1.   In low density residential areas, fire flow from each fire hydrant
shall be a minimum of one thousand (1,000) gallons per minute for a period of
time not less than thirty (30) minutes adjusted to a twenty (20) psi residual
pressure. This fire flow (but not storage) may be reduced by fifty percent
(50%) in a subdivision which cannot meet the requirement in over half of its
lot due to topography in a portion of the project and not in another, by
installing residential fire sprinkling systems in homes whose closest hydrant
does not meet the one thousand (1,000) gallon per minute flow; provided, that
the fire sprinkling system will be supplied with adequate pressure to cause the
system to be functional, as determined by the county engineer. Such fire
sprinklers shall be installed to NFPA 13D standard for one- and two-family
dwellings.
      2.   In high density residential, commercial or industrial areas, fire
flow must be greater than one thousand (1,000) gallons per minute and will
require special investigation to determine the fire flow requirements. The
developer shall submit an engineered solution for appropriate fire protection.
The county commission shall then work with the county engineer and planning
commission, and the county fire chief to review the proposed engineered
solution, and the county commission shall determine minimum fire flow
requirements in such cases.
   B.   Engineering Of Water System: In all cases, the water source, water
storage and the water delivery system shall be engineered and installed to
provide the required fire flow during times of peak water usage as if all
development within the proposed subdivision was complete, and as may be
required by formulas adopted by the state board of environmental quality in
connection with the state's approval of the system. Verification will be at the
developer's expense and certified by a licensed engineer.
   C.   Water Distribution Lines: In all cases, water distribution lines in all
subdivisions shall be minimum of eight inches (8") in diameter. The water lines
shall be larger if needed to provide for required fire flow. Secondary lines
may be six inch (6") lines where the county engineer is satisfied that the line
will yield sufficient fire flow to meet these fire flow requirements, such as
in the case of looped systems or cul-de-sacs. "Secondary lines" shall be
defined as lines which service a single group of lots. If an existing system
cannot achieve adequate fire flow under the provisions of this section, then
fire flows required by subsection A1 of this section must be met before further
subdivision can occur, except as provided in subsection F of this section.
   D.   Looping: Water systems shall be looped when possible and valves shall
generally be spaced such that a break in any one length of main will put no
more than one block out of service during repairs, subject to a maximum of one
thousand two hundred feet (1,200').
   E.   New Installations:
      1.   All new water storage, new water lines and new fire hydrants that
are installed to develop a new phase of a previously approved subdivision,
shall conform to the current requirements even though the existing water
storage and delivery system does not meet current standards.
      2.   Any water lines that are intended to be used as future feeder lines
to platted phases of a previously approved subdivision, shall be engineered and
installed to provide adequate fire flow to the anticipated phase in accordance
with the current fire flow standards.
   F.   New Phase Of Previously Approved Systems: If existing water storage and
lines can provide the new phase of a previously approved water system (1
approved and developed prior to the adoption of the current standards) with a
minimum fire flow of seven hundred fifty (750) gpm for forty five (45) minutes
adjusted to a residual pressure of twenty (20) psi, during estimated peak water
use when the new phase is fully developed, the developer is exempt from meeting
the one thousand (1,000) gpm requirement. This exemption applies only to actual
delivered fire flow. All new storage, line size and hydrants shall still meet
current standards. If existing water storage and lines cannot provide the new
phase in the previously approved water system with at least seven hundred fifty
(750) gpm, as provided above, a minimum fire flow of five hundred (500) gpm for
sixty (60) minutes adjusted to a residual pressure of twenty (20) psi, during
estimated peak water use when the new phase is fully developed, may be allowed
if the homes to be built therein shall be equipped with residential fire
sprinklers installed in the same manner as provided in subsection A1 of this
section or this subsection, then prior to allowing a new subdivision addition,
such new subdivision shall be required to meet the fire flow requirements of
subsection A1 of this section.
   G.   Fire Sprinklers Noticed On Plat: Where fire sprinklers are allowed to
reduce fire flow as provided in this section, the plat of the subdivision shall
contain a notice of which lots must have fire sprinklers in order to obtain a
building permit.
   H.   Fire Hydrant Specifications:
      1.   All fire hydrants shall have one 41/2-inch and two (2) 21/2- inch
outlets with NH treads.
      2.   A six inch (6") gate valve shall be installed on each fire hydrant
to be shut off in case of damage or needed repair. This gate valve shall be
accessible by standard square key from the street or ground level.
      3.   All fire hydrants shall be properly thrust blocked with poured in
place concrete against undisturbed or compacted soil. Rocks and other material
are not acceptable as thrust blocking. Banding and other forms of mechanical
restraint may be used only if approved by the county engineer.
      4.   All hydrants shall be five feet (5') from the back of the curb or
within between two feet (2') and five feet (5') from the edge of the right of
way of an uncurbed road. In all cases, hydrants shall have a five foot (5')
elliptical radius of unobstructed clearance to adjacent obstacles.
      5.   The lowest hydrant water outlet shall not be less than eighteen
inches (18") nor more than thirty inches (30") above the final ground level.
      6.   All fire hydrants shall meet and be installed according to the
county construction standards.
   I.   Fire Hydrant Spacing And Location:
      1.   In low density residential areas, fire hydrants shall be installed
in all subdivisions, with all lots in the subdivision being not more than two
hundred fifty feet (250') from a fire hydrant.
      2.   In multiple-family areas, high density planned unit developments
(PUD), industrial, commercial or business areas, fire hydrant spacing shall not
be greater than three hundred fifty feet (350'), nor shall any building be
greater than one hundred seventy five feet (175') from a hydrant via public
access to the property being served. In all such cases, final design must be
reviewed and accepted by the county engineer.
         a.   Fire hydrants shall be installed on dedicated easements or public
rights of way and will be owned and maintained by the entity so designated by
the county commission.
         b.   Fire hydrants shall generally be installed on the same side of
the street in line with extensions of the property line or on corners.
         c.   Dead ends should be avoided in the water system. If they cannot
be avoided, a hydrant or flushing valve shall be installed at the end of each
such dead end. (2004 Code § 6-1)
10-5-5: WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   Culinary Water Required: All subdivisions shall have a supply of
culinary water available to each lot in the subdivision. Hauling of water to
lots in a subdivision shall not be permitted.
   B.   Public System: For a public water system, the quantity, quality and
distribution system plans shall be approved, in writing, by the state
department of environmental quality, and by the county engineer's office.
   C.   Nonpublic System: Where a nonpublic water system is proposed, such
approval is required by the Southwest Utah public health department.
   D.   Quantity:
      1.   Quantity shall include the minimum requirement of the department of
environmental quality for indoor use only (currently 0.45 acre-feet per
dwelling unit or, as may be revised from time to time by said agency).
      2.   Quantity shall include the amount of storage capacity required by
section
10-5-4 of this chapter. (2004 Code § 6-1)
      3.   Quantity shall include water provided for outside watering or other
usage over and above the minimum requirement shown herein. The amount of such
other usage shall be as may be proposed by the planning commission. The amount
of additional water provided may vary depending upon the location of the
subdivision, the climate, the soil conditions and vegetation in and around the
subdivision, and the total water right available to the subdivision. (2004 Code
§ 6-1; amd. 2015 Code)
   E.   Storage Capacity: Storage capacity for water systems shall include all
water provided under the requirements of section
10-5-4 of this chapter, but may be modified, based upon the recommendation of
the department of environmental quality and the county engineer, after taking
into consideration the pumping capacity from the water source to the storage
tank.
   F.   Disclosure To Buyers: All buyers in the subdivision shall be advised of
specific points of connection and the earliest date at which such connection
may be made. Also, any cost to the buyer shall be disclosed.
   G.   Installation Prior To Recording: Water systems may be installed prior
to final recording of the plat as provided by the requirements of subsection
10-5-3Q of this chapter.
   H.   System Specifications: All water systems within the county shall be
improved in accordance with the specifications, rules and regulations adopted
by the county commission. Said specifications will be as follows:
      1.   All water mains shall be six inches (6") in diameter or larger and
constructed of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe. All rigid systems shall conform
to AWWA specification C-900, which outlines the requirements for rigid
polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe for water main systems, or ductile iron pipe. All
ductile iron pipe shall be class 52 conforming to the latest edition of AWWA
specification C-151 (ANSI A21.51).
      2.   All water lines under six inches (6") in diameter shall be scheduled
40 PVC or equivalent ductile iron.
      3.   All water lines six inches (6") or larger shall have cast iron
mechanical joint fittings. All water lines under six inches (6") shall have
schedule 80 fittings.
      4.   All water mains shall have a minimum depth of cover to the top of
the pipe of three feet (3') or one foot (1') below the frost line, whichever
depth is greater. (2004 Code § 6-1)
10-5-6: ELECTRICAL SYSTEM AND TELEPHONE SERVICE:
   A.   Plans Required: All subdivisions, except those otherwise exempted by
the planning commission, shall be provided with electrical and telephone
service. The developer shall submit electrical and telephone plans to the
county commission prior to final approval of the subdivision plat. The use of
cellular phones only shall not constitute an acceptable telephone plan. (2004
Code § 6-1)
   B.   Cost Estimated; Bond Requirements: The cost of said systems shall be
estimated by the electric and telephone companies providing service to the
subdivision and the amount thereof shall be included in the bond covering all
required improvements, unless a copy of a current construction contract, signed
by the utility company and the developer, providing for the installation of
said facilities within the one year bonding period, is submitted to, and
approved by, the county commission. (2004 Code § 6-1; amd. 2015 Code)
   C.   Final Inspection: A final inspection shall be made by the county of the
electrical and telephone systems and final approval given in writing by the
inspector prior to release of the bond. (2004 Code § 6-1)
10-5-7: FENCES AND CATTLE GUARDS:
In locations where a land subdivision abuts or is adjacent to public or private
grazing land, a fence, of material and quality satisfactory to the planning
commission, shall be erected around the outer limits of the subdivision as it
is shown on the subdivision map. The planning commission may also require the
installation of cattle guards on any street entering the proposed subdivision
from other existing streets. (2004 Code § 6-1; amd. 2015 Code)
CHAPTER 6
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Departmental Standards
10-6-2: Design Standards
10-6-3: Construction Standards
10-6-1: DEPARTMENTAL STANDARDS:
Standards for design, construction specification and inspection of street
improvements, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, storm drainage, flood control
facilities and fire hydrants shall be as adopted by the county; standards for
water distribution and sewage disposal facilities as adopted by the county and
reviewed and approved by the state department of health. Subdividers shall
comply with standards established by departments and agencies of the state;
provided, that such standards shall first be reviewed and approved by the
county engineer. (2004 Code § 7-1)
10-6-2: DESIGN STANDARDS:
The design of the preliminary and final plat of the subdivision in relation to
streets, blocks, lots, open spaces and other design factors shall be in harmony
with design standards recommended by the planning commission and by other
departments and agencies of county government. Design standards shall be
approved by the county commission and shall include the following:
   A.   Blocks And Lots:
      1.   Blocks shall not exceed approximately one thousand six hundred feet
(1,600') in length.
      2.   Blocks shall be wide enough to adequately accommodate two (2) tiers
of lots, unless a modification is approved by the planning commission because
of topography or other unusual conditions as provided by subsection 10-3-3B of
this title.
      3.   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that lots will provide
satisfactory and desirable sites for buildings, and be properly related to
topography, to the character of surrounding development and to existing
requirements.
      4.   All lots shown on the preliminary and final plats must conform to
the minimum requirements of the zoning ordinance for the zone in which the
subdivision is located, and to the minimum requirements of the state department
of health for water supply and sewage disposal.
      5.   Each lot shall abut on a street shown on the subdivision plat or on
an existing publicly dedicated street or on a street which has become public by
right of use.
   B.   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage and reversed frontage lots shall
be avoided except where necessary to provide separation of residential
development from traffic arterial to overcome specific disadvantages or
topography and orientation.
   C.   Access From Major Arterial And Collector Streets: Lots shall not derive
access exclusively from a major arterial. Access shall be limited on collector
streets except where approved by the county engineer. In such cases, where
driveway access from collector street may be necessary for several adjoining
lots, the planning commission may require that such lots be served by a
combined access drive in order to limit possible traffic hazards on such
street. In such cases, driveways should be designed and arranged so as to avoid
requiring vehicles to back into traffic. (2004 Code § 7-2)
   D.   Flag Lots: After determination by the planning commission that standard
lots are not feasible, the planning commission may, in order to encourage more
efficient use of land, allow flag lots to be developed, subject to the
following conditions: (2004 Code § 7-2; amd. 2015 Code)
      1.   The property cannot be subdivided with public street and standard
size lots, either at the present or in the foreseeable future.
      2.   The staff portion of said lot shall front on a dedicated public
street. The minimum width of the staff portion of the lot shall be twenty five
feet (25').
      3.   No building or construction, except for driveways, shall be allowed
on the staff portion of said lot.
      4.   The front side of the flag lot shall be deemed to be the side
nearest the dedicated public street upon which the staff portion front.
      5.   All lot size and setback requirements shall be the same as may be
required by the zone in which the lot is located.
      6.   No more than two (2) flag lots or four (4) dwelling units may be
served by one staff portion of said lots.
      7.   Each flag lot shall be specifically approved by the planning
commission. (2004 Code § 7-2)
10-6-3: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
Construction standards for subdivisions shall be as established by the board of
county commissioners and on file in the county office. (2015 Code)
CHAPTER 7
GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Method Of Guarantee
10-7-2: Guarantee Format
10-7-1: METHOD OF GUARANTEE:
Required subdivision improvements may be guaranteed in the following manner:
(2004 Code § 8-1)
   A.   Guarantee Required: In lieu of the actual completion and acceptance by
the planning commission of the improvements required by this title and before
approval of the final plat by the county commission, the subdivider shall
guarantee the installation and construction of the required improvements free
from defective material or workmanship and in compliance with all county
standards. (2004 Code § 8-1; amd. 2015 Code)
   B.   Types Of Guarantees: Said guarantee shall be in the form of a corporate
surety bond, cash bond or irrevocable letter of credit for an amount equal to
one hundred ten percent (110%) of the cost of improvements not previously
accepted and as estimated by the county engineer and approved by the county
attorney. (2004 Code § 8-1)
   C.   Request For Final Inspection: After the completion of all subdivision
improvements, the subdivider shall make a written request to the county
inspector or zoning administrator for a final inspection. Inspection shall be
made within eight (8) days from the date of request by the county engineer and
county road superintendent. A letter of final inspection shall be written by
the county engineer specifying the acceptability of all subdivision
improvements. (2004 Code § 8-1; amd. 2015 Code)
   D.   Release Of Guarantee: Once all improvements are approved by the county
engineer, any guarantee filed with the county therefor, shall be released
within five (5) days from the date of approval. In any event, the subdivider
shall provide the county engineer with a letter of guarantee stating that he
will maintain all subdivision improvements in a good state of repair and free
from defective material or workmanship which becomes evident for one year from
his request for final inspection.
   E.   Time Limit For Completion: All such improvements shall have been
installed within a one year time period, unless extended by the county
commission.
   F.   Partial Release: A letter of credit or cash bond may be released in
part, as progress payment for improvements, subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   The developer shall submit to the county engineer, or other assigned
county inspector, a request for payment against the letter of credit, showing
to whom and for what amount the release is requested. Upon inspection by the
county, and approval of the requested amount, the county will authorize the
holder of the credit account to disperse the approved payments through the use
of lien release checks to pay for the improvements thus completed.
      2.   Said payment requests may be made upon completion of the various
phases of development as follows:
         a.   Complete water system installation, including any required
storage facility, well improvements, etc.
         b.   Complete road construction, including all survey monuments,
traffic control and street name signs. Road construction shall also include
storm drainage systems.
         c.   Complete waste disposal system, where required.
         d.   Staking of lot corners and any other required survey field work.
         e.   Completion of utilities, including power and telephone, if bonded
by the county.
Requests shall not be submitted more frequently than on a monthly basis.
      3.   In any event, ten percent (10%) of the original amount of the letter
of credit or cash bond shall be retained until one year following completion of
the project as a guarantee of quality of improvements. In the case of a surety
bond, a maintenance bond shall be filed prior to the release of the surety
bond.
   G.   Improvements Installed Prior To Final Plat Recording: For a developer
who proposes to install improvements prior to recording a final plat, as
provided by section
10-3-6 of this title, a cost estimate of improvements shall be submitted to and
approved by the county engineer prior to the start of construction, as the
basis for determining the amount of the ten percent (10%) guarantee bond that
shall be posted upon final approval of the improvements by the county. (2004
Code § 8-1)
10-7-2: GUARANTEE FORMAT:
   A.   Escrow Agreement: The escrow agreement shall be signed by the
subdivider, the county and the escrow holder, and shall be in such form as is
on file in the county treasurer's office. The escrow agreement may contain such
additional provisions as the parties deem necessary.
   B.   Irrevocable Letter Of Credit: The subdivider shall file with the county
an irrevocable letter of credit from a duly chartered state or national bank,
or savings and loan institution, which letter shall contain provisions
substantially similar to that required in the escrow agreement. The form of the
irrevocable letter of credit shall be on file in the county treasurer's office.
(2004 Code § 8-2; amd. 2015 Code)
