BOULDER TOWN, UTAH
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
Mayor                            Steve Cox
                                 
Council Person                   Gladys Le Fevre
Council Person                   Conrad Jepsen
Council Person                   Judy Drain
Council Person                   Elizabeth Julian
                                 
Town Clerk                       Judith Davis
Deputy Town Clerk                Peg Smith
Deputy Town Clerk                Michala Alldredge
                                 
Planning Commission Chair        Colleen Thompson
Planning Commission Deputy Chair Matt Cochran
Planning Commission Member       Josey Muse
Planning Commission Member       Haylee Apperson
Planning Commission Member       Cookie Schaus
Planning Commission Alternate    Marian Johnson
Planning Commission Clerk        Peg Smith
                                 
Zoning Administrator             Curtis Oberhansly
Deputy Zoning Administrator      Michala Alldredge
 
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE 2025-1 BOULDER TOWN, UTAH
 
AN ORDINANCE TO MAKE TEMPORARY CHANGES TO THE RESIDENTIAL SHORT TERM RENTAL
BUSINESS LICENSE RENEWAL PROCESS.
 
Whereas The Boulder Town Council has been made aware of problems in the
administration of business license renewals caused by provisions in the current
version of§ 153.204 Residential Short-Term Rentals (RSTRs); and
 
Whereas 
The council finds that allowing the existing licensed RSTRs to continue to operate while the
ordinance is being revised is fair and equitable; and
 
Whereas  the council has considered to input from the Planning
Commission following a public hearing on this issue,
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOULDER TOWN COUNCIL THAT THE BOULDER
TOWN ORDINANCES BE AMENDED AS FOLLOWS:
 
INSERT THE FOLLOWING
 
153.204 (H) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in §110.01 through
§110.07 and §153.204 items (A) through 
(G) the Town Clerk is authorized to issue calendar year 2025 renewal business licenses
 
RSTR  for Dec  19 TC.docx  1 December 20, 2024
to all residential short-term rentals, bed and breakfast inns, campgrounds, RV
parks and guest ranches that:
a)    previously received a Conditional Use Permit,
b)    received a calendar year 2024 business license
 
153.204 
(I) No new RSTR applications will be accepted while this temporary ordinance is in
effect.
 
153.204 (J) This temporary ordinance will sunset and items 153.204 (H) and 
(I) will expire on June 30, 2025.
APPROVED and PASSED by the Boulder Town Council, State of Utah, on this ---1:::
_ day of
?\)a--(1   '2025.
 
 
ATTEST:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dcd2ca184d432a104519a6480f753abd8e9d15ed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-850_5802x1612.jpg]
 
 
 
VOTE:
Judy Drain, Mayor    
 
 
 
•?  I ._?--+'\\--+t,-"'----------
 
Josh Ellis, Councilmember ------'-fi+?-"-'Q,"-------------
Ray Gardner, Councilmember     \,\?...?..?.   ?-----------
Gladys LeFevre, Councilmember _ _._Q---+--'\Hj£,,,_,   _
John Veranth, Councilmember _  ._Y\---+--'lP,£., ,   _
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE 2025-2 BOULDER TOWN, STATE OF UTAH
 
AN ORDINANCE REGULATING DUPLEXES WITHIN THE INCORPORATED AREAS OF BOULDER TOWN,
GARFIELD COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH.
 
WHEREAS  Boulder Town Council as the legislative body of Boulder Town, State
of Utah, has an interest in promoting more housing in the Town,
 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED AND ENACTED  by the Boulder Town Council, Garfield
County, State of Utah to adopt the following ordinance making changes in
Boulder Town land use codes to allow for duplexes.
 
INSERT IN THE FOLLOWING SECTION:
§ 153.011 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
 
 
 
 
 
DRIVEWAY. A private roadway, the use of which is limited to persons residing,
employed or otherwise using or visiting the parcel on which the
driveway is located.
DUPLEX. ADuple*" means a single building having two separate dwelling fu4@
units.
 
 
DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used as the more or less
permanent residence or sleeping place of one or more persons, but not including a tent,
recreational coach, hotel, motel, hospital or nursing home.
 
 
MAKE THE CHANGES AS SHOWN BELOW:
§ 153.116 ZONING DISTRICTS PURPOSE.
The zoning districts are formulated to provide and achieve the following
purposes.
(A)   Greenbelt - Multiple Use District (GMU). The Greenbelt - Multiple Use
District (GMU) is established to provide areas for agricultural activities and
to allow other uses determined to be compatible with agricultural uses and
activities.
(B)   Low Density Residential District (LOR). This district provides for a
single tefflily large lot, low-density residential living environment with a
density of one dwelling unit or duplex for each five acres and other uses that
do not require additional public facilities and services than those provided to
a
low-density residential area. Additionally, this district is established to
allow limited development on areas that may possess certain constraints for
development.
(C)   Medium Density Residential District (MOR). The Medium Density
Residential (MOR) District, providing a maximum density of one dwelling unit or
dup!ex per two and half acres, is provided by the town to allow an alternative
residential living environment than those provided by the LDR and HDR
Districts.
 
(D)   High Density Residential District (HOR). The High Density Residential
District (HOR) provides higher density residential areas and allows a variety
of other uses and services to meet the needs of residents of the town.
(E)   Commercial District (C). The town provides the Commercial (C) District to
allow a variety of retail commercial, office and light industrial activities
within the town to meet the needs of residents and visitors, to provide
employment opportunities for residents, and to strengthen and provide diversity
to the local economy. As explained in 7.5 of the 2021 amendments to Boulder's
General Plan, this Commercial District is no longer in use. It is
retained only to provide a regulatory framework for those uses that were
approved within it.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed
5-8-2008, § 602; Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021)
 
 
INSERT IN THE FOLLOWING SECTION:
§ 153.117 TABLE OF USES.
(A)   The Table of Uses (Table 1) identifies the uses allowed within each
Zoning District. The Table of Uses identifies uses allowed as a permitted use
(identified as "P" in the table), for which only administrative permits are
required; uses allowed upon approval of a conditional use permit (identified as
"PC, Potentially Compatible"); and uses allowed as a temporary use (identified
as "T"). Definitions for various uses may be found in § 153.011.
(B)   All uses not specifically identified as permitted, potentially compatible
(permitted with a conditional use permit), or temporary within a zoning
district are prohibited there, as are all uses that are not specifically
identified or listed in Table 1. Cells that are left blank in the Table of Uses
indicate the use is prohibited in the particular zoning district, though the
use may be allowed in other zoning districts.
 
 
Table of Uses
Use                                 Zoning District
                                    GM LDR MDR HDR C
Accessory dwelling unit, commerciaPC
Accessory use or building         p  p   p   p
Agriculture, agricultural buildingsp  p   p   p
Bed and breakfast inn             PC PC  PC  PC
Bon-ow pits                         PC
 
Cemetery                               PC PC
Church                                 PC PC PC PC
Commercial use                        PC
Community market (farn1er's market)  T           T
Concrete plant, in existing gravel PCt
Day care/preschool center              PC
Du12lex                                p  p  p  p
External accessory dwelling unit     PC PC PC PC
Farmstand                              T           T
Guest ranch                            PC
Home child care                       p  p  p  p
Home business                          PC PC PC PC
Internal accessory dwelling unit     p  p  p  p
Licensed family child care           p  p  p
Long-te1m tempora1y use               T  T  T  T  T
Mobile food business                  PC
Public uses and utilities           PC PC PC PC
Residential day care certificate     p  p  p  p
Residential facility for elderly     p  p  p  p
Residential short-term rental         PC PC PC PC
RV or mobile home as temp residenceT
School                                 PC PC PC PC
Single-family on a lot of record   p  p  p  p
Special events                         T  T  T  T  T
Wireless telecommunication facilities  PC PC PC PC PC
NOTES TO TABLE:
A blank cell indicates that the use is prohibited in that zoning district.
 
 
MAKE THE CHANGES AS SHOWN BELOW:
§  153.120 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
The Table of Off-Street Parking Requirements (Table 3) accompanies the Table of
Uses. This table identifies the minimum number of off-street parking spaces
required to be provided by each use or activity allowed within each zoning
district.
 
Table of Required Off-Street Parking
 
 
Use                                          Number Of Off-Street Parking Spaces Required
Accessory dwelling unit                     1 in addition to the spaces required for the primary dwelling
Bed and breakfast inn                      1 space for employee, plus 1 space per guest room
Churches                                     1 space for every 4 seats in the assembly area
Civic/public buildings/public facilities     1 space for every 400 square feet of floor area or as approved by the Planning
                                             Commission
Commercial sales and services              I space for each 400 square feet of floor area
Corporate offices, professional offices,   2 spaces, plus 1 space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area
business offices and financial institutions
Hotels/motels                                1 space for each sleeping unit
Duul?x                                       2 suaces for each living :ynit
                                             1 for each person employed during regular working hours and adequate spaces for all
Light manufacturing                          company owned
                                             vehicles and visitors
Parks and playgrounds                       As approved by the Planning Commission
Residential facilities for persons with  1 per each 4 residents, plus 1 for each 2 employees dming regular hours
disabilities
Residential facilities for elderly persons1 per each 4 residents, plus I for each 2 employees during regular hours
Restaurants                                  I space for each 4 seats or I space per I 00 square feet of gross floor area,
                                             whichever is less
Schools                                      As approved by the Planning Commission
Single-family dwelling                       2 per primary dwelling unit
Sports fields, sporting facilities, arenas1 space for every 5 seats at maximum capacity or as approved by the Planning
                                             Commission
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Boulder Town Council of Boulder, Utah     M_ay--
=1-.2?0-2-5
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dcd2ca184d432a104519a6480f753abd8e9d15ed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-853_131x9.jpg]
 
 
 
 
A. Conrad Jepsen, Mayor
 
 
Gladys LeFevre, Councilmember
 
 
Josh Ellis, Councilmember
 
 
John Veranth, Councilmember
AYE X
X
 
 
X
 
 
X
NAY   ABSENT   ABSTAIN
 
 
Ray Gardner, Councilmember   X
 
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dcd2ca184d432a104519a6480f753abd8e9d15ed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-856_3667x1766.jpg]
Attest:
 
??yM,_
Jessica LeFevere, Clerk, Boulder Town
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE 2025-3 BOULDER TOWN, UTAH
 
AN ORDINANCE TO MODIFY SECTION 30 - ELECTIONS
 
Whereas Boulder Town has been advised to repeal the current financial reporting provisions
and adopt the financial reporting requirements of state code;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOULDER TOWN COUNCIL THAT THE BOULDER
TOWN ORDINANCES BE AMENDED AS FOLLOWS:
 
Repeal the current Chapter 31 in its entirety and replace as follows:
CHAPTER 31: ELECTIONS
§ 31.01 ELECTIONS.
Election for Mayor and Council members shall be conducted
according to UCA Title 20A Election Code.
 
§ 31.02 PRIMARY ELECTION.
(A)   Boulder Town provides for the candidates
for Mayor and Council members to be nominated at a primary election in
accordance with UCA §§ 20A-9-404.
 
(B)   A primary election will be held only when the number of candidates filing
for an office exceeds twice the number to be elected. The candidates nominated
at the primary election plus candidates that were not required
to run in the primary are to be placed on the November ballot.
 
§ 31.03 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES.
Campaign and financial disclosures shall be in accordance with UCA 20A Chapter 11et
seq.
 
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Boulder Town Council of Boulder, Utah -
?M=ay.   =1?2, ?0?2=5?-
 
 
 
 
A. Conrad Jepsen, Mayor
 
 
Gladys LeFevre, Councilmember
 
 
Josh Ellis, Councilmember
 
 
John Veranth, Councilmember
 
 
Ray Gardner, Councilmember
AYE
 
X
 
X
 
 
X
 
 
X
 
 
X
NAY   ABSENT   ABSTAIN
 
 
 
Presiding Officer   Attest
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dcd2ca184d432a104519a6480f753abd8e9d15ed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-859_4314x1670.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dcd2ca184d432a104519a6480f753abd8e9d15ed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-862_3570x1737.jpg]
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE 2025-4 BOULDER TOWN, UTAH
AN ORDINANCE IMPOSING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON THE ACCEPTANCE OF
APPLICATIONS FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS FOR RESIDENTIAL
SHORT-TERM RENTALS
 
 
WHEREAS, the Town Council of Boulder, Utah ("the Town"), is authorized under
Utah Code§ 10-9a-504 to enact temporary land use regulations in response to
compelling, countervailing public interests or pending legislative studies; and
WHEREAS, the Town's existing regulations governing Residential Short-
Term Rentals (RSTRs) are undergoing revision to address community
concerns related to housing
availability, neighborhood integrity, and public infrastructure impacts; and
WHEREAS, the Town Council has determined that continuing to accept applications
for RSTR Conditional Use Permits during this revision process could result in
development inconsistent with the Town's future land use goals
and may undermine the effectiveness of the revised ordinance once adopted; and
WHEREAS, the Town Council finds there is a compelling, countervailing public
interest in temporarily halting new RSTR CUP applications
in order to preserve the status quo while legislative changes are considered
and to protect the integrity of the Town's planning process;
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF BOULDER, UTAH:
SECTION 1. Moratorium Imposed
A temporary moratorium is hereby imposed on the acceptance, processing,
or approval of
any new applications for Conditional Use Permits for Residential Short-
Term Rentals within the municipal boundaries of Boulder.
SECTION 2. Duration
This moratorium shall take effect
upon adoption and shall remain in effect for a period of six
(6) months,
unless extended, modified, or repealed earlier by the Town Council in
accordance with Utah Code§ 10-9a-504.
SECTION 3. Legislative Purpose
The purpose of this moratorium is to allow the Town to complete its legislative
review and potential revision of its short-term rental ordinance and zoning
code provisions related to RSTRs, and to ensure that land use decisions are
made in accordance with the community's long-term goals and values.
 
SECTION 4. Applicability to Pending Applications
This moratorium shall not apply to complete CUP applications for Residential Short-
Term Rentals that were submitted and accepted by the Town prior to the
effective date of this ordinance. All such pending applications
will continue to be processed under the existing ordinance.
 
SECTION 5. Findings
The Town Council finds and declares that:
 
1.   1. There is a compelling, countervailing public interest in maintaining
the status quo while the Town evaluates and amends its RSTR regulations;
2.    2. The Town is actively pursuing a revision to its RSTR ordinance;
3.    3. The moratorium is necessary to prevent circumvention
of the anticipated changes to land use regulations.
SECTION 6. Severability
If any section, clause, or provision of this ordinance is declared invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder shall
not be affected and shall remain in full force and effect.
 
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Boulder Town Council of Boulder, Utah    Ma
y 29.._,2025   
 
 
 
 
A. Conrad Jepsen, Mayor Gladys LeFevre, Councilmember Josh Ellis, Councilmember
John Veranth, Councilmember Ray Gardner, Councilmember
AYE X
X
 
 
X
 
 
X
 
 
X
NAY   ABSENT   ABSTAIN
 
Attest
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dcd2ca184d432a104519a6480f753abd8e9d15ed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-865_3302x1622.jpg]
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-5 BOULDER TOWN, STATE OF UTAH
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF BOULDER, UTAH, AMENDING THE
REGULAR MEETING SCHEDULE OF THE BOULDER TOWN COUNCIL SECTION
30.01 MEETINGS
Whereas, the Boulder Town Council desires to amend its regular meeting schedule to better
serve the needs of the community and its members; and
Whereas, the current regular meeting schedule is the first Thursday of each
month; and
Whereas, the Boulder Town Council believes changing the regular meeting schedule to the first
Tuesday of each month would improve accessibility and attendance;
Now, Therefore, Be It Ordained by the Town Council of Boulder, Utah:
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
(A)   The governing body of the town, which is the Town Council, shall hold a regular meeting
at the Town Hall on the first Thursday Tuesday of each month at 7:
00 p.m., unless the scheduled
date is a legal holiday, in which case the meeting will be held on the first following business day
that is not a legal holiday.
(B)   The meeting date, time, or location of an individual meeting may be changed from time to
time as the need arises by notifying Council members and by posting proper
notice of
the change. Special meetings of the Town Council may also be held at other dates, times, or places in
accordance with the provisions of UCA § 10-3-502.
(C)   This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon passage and publication as
required by law.
 
Passed and Adopted by the Town Council of Boulder, Utah on July 15, 2505.
 
Motion: 
Josh Ellis moved to approve the ordinance to modify the meeting schedule as presented.
Gladys seconded the motion.
 
 
Council Member                AYE NAY ABSENT ABSTAIN
A. Conrad Jepsen, Mayor       X
Gladys LeFevre, Councilmember X
Josh Ellis, Councilmember     X
John Veranth, Councilmember  X
Ray Gardner, Councilmember           X
Certification:
 
/s/ A. Conrad Jepsen
Boulder Town Mayor (Presiding Officer)
 
/s/ Elizabeth Julian
Boulder Town Clerk (Attest)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-6
BOULDER TOWN, STATE OF UTAH
AN ORDINANCE TO MODIFY CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Whereas, the Boulder Town Council wishes to increase the number of alcoholic
beverage licenses currently allowed in town;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF BOULDER, UTAH, THAT THE
BOULDER TOWN ORDINANCES BE AMENDED AS FOLLOWS:
 
Repeal Chapters 111.11 and 111.21 in their entirety, effective immediately.

§ 111.11 RESTRICTIONS.
(. 29A, passed 8-24-1995; Ord. 29B, passed 10-8-1999; Ord. 29D, passed 9-4-
2014) Penalty, see§ 10.99; 2025-6, passed 09-16-2025)
 
§ 111.21 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSES.

   (Ord. 29B, passed 10-8-1999; 2025-6, passed 09-16-2025)
Passed and Adopted by the Town Council of Boulder, Utah, on September 16, 2025,
at 6:31 PM. 
 
Motion: 

Motion: Council Member Ray Gardner moved to open discussion on Ordinance 2025-
H. Council Member Gladys LeFevre seconded.
 
Motion to amend: Council Member Josh Ellis moved to amend Ordinance 2025-H to
repeal sections 111-11 and 111-21 in their entirety. Council Member Gladys
LeFevre seconded.
 
Roll call vote: Josh Ellis - aye, John Veranth - aye, Gladys LeFevre - aye, Ray
Gardner - aye, Conrad Jepsen - aye. Motion passed unanimously (5-0).
 
Motion to clarify the effective date: Council Member Josh Ellis moved to make
the ordinance effective immediately. Council Member John Veranth seconded.
 
Roll call vote: Josh Ellis - aye, John Veranth - aye, Gladys LeFevre - aye, Ray
Gardner - aye, Conrad Jepsen - aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0) at 6:33
p.m.
Certification:

/s/ A. Conrad Jepsen
Boulder Town Mayor A. Conrad Jepsen (Presiding Officer)
 
/s/ Elizabeth Julian
Boulder Town Clerk (Attest)
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2021-3
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR BOULDER TOWN, STATE OF UTAH, AND
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED
IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of Boulder Town are not
arranged and classified in an easily accessed and referenced manner, and can be
aided by a better organized manner and form, thereby contributing to a more
complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety, and general welfare
of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Utah empower and authorize
political subdivisions to revise, amend, restate, codify, and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Boulder Town has authorized a general
compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances of Boulder Town of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book or
electronic form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary or desirable to provide for the usual daily operation
of the municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance
take effect at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOULDER TOWN COUNCIL:
Section 1. The general ordinances of Boulder Town as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and
compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall constitute the "Code of
Ordinances of Boulder Town."
Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles, and as set forth more specifically on Exhibit A, attached and
incorporated herein:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   [Other titles and provisions may be enacted or modified at a later time.]
Section 3. All prior ordinances which are inconsistent with the subjects and
provisions in such Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after
the effective date of this ordinance except as they are included and re-
ordained in whole or in part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not
affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right or obligation
established prior to the effective date of this ordinance, nor shall such
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises, or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication
of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other
public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary
or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the
Code.
Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Boulder Town Council and the Boulder Town Recorder is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the
city office.
Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties, and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6. The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective upon
passage.
   PASSED AND APPROVED this _____ day of ___________, 2021.
   BOULDER TOWN
               By: ___________________________
                STEVEN COX, Mayor
ATTEST:
______________________________
JUDITH DAVIS, Recorder
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Boulder Town
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK. The Clerk of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Garfield County.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Boulder, Utah.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where a provision requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(UCA § 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see UCA §§ 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   ELECTIONS
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
33.   EMERGENCY OPERATION PLAN
      
34.   ADMINISTRATIVE TOWN POLICIES
      
35.   WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE CODE
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The governing body of the town, which is the Town Council, shall hold
a regular meeting at the Town Hall on the first Thursday of each month at 7:00
p.m., unless the scheduled date is a legal holiday, in which case the meeting
will be held on the first following business day that is not a legal holiday.
   (B)   The meeting date, time or location of an individual meeting may be
changed from time to time as the need arises by notifying Council members and
by posting proper notice of the change. Special meetings of the Town Council
may also be held at other dates, times or places in accordance with the
provisions of UCA § 10-3-502.
(Ord. 7A, passed 11-3-2004; Ord. 2021-3, passed - -2021)
CHAPTER 31: ELECTIONS
Section
   
31.01   Elections; primary election
   
31.02   Financial disclosures
§ 31.01 ELECTIONS; PRIMARY ELECTION.
   (A)   Election for Mayor and Council members shall be conducted according to
the municipal election section of the UCA §§ 20A-9-404(1) and (2).
   (B)   This section provides for the candidates for Mayor and Council members
to be nominated at a primary election if required. A primary election will be
held only when the number of candidates filing for an office exceeds twice the
number to be elected. The candidates nominated at the primary election plus
candidates that were not required to run in the primary are to be placed on the
November ballot.
(Ord. 27, passed 4-6-1995; Ord. 2021-3, passed - -2021)
§ 31.02 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES.
   (A)   Each candidate for municipal office within the town who received more
than $750 in campaign contributions or who spends more than $750 on his or her
campaign for town office shall file reports with the Town Clerk, itemizing the
total contributions received by the candidate, and the total expenditures
incurred by the candidate for the campaign.
   (B)   Required reports must be filed at least once every seven days before
the municipal general election and at least once 30 days after the municipal
general election.
   (C)   As used in this section, the terms CONTRIBUTION and EXPENDITURES
include not only money, but all non-monetary contributions, including in-kind
contributions and contributions of tangible things.
   (D)   The reports shall state the name of the donor of each contribution in
excess of $50.
   (E)   The reports shall identify the name of each recipient and the amount
of each expenditure.
   (F)   Candidates for elective municipal office who are required to file the
reports required by this section and who are eliminated at a primary election
shall file a signed campaign financial statement, containing the information
required by this section no later than 30 days after the primary election.
   (G)   Any person who fails to comply with this section is guilty of an
infraction.
(Ord. 45, passed 7-11-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
Municipal Sales and Use Tax
   
32.01   Title
   
32.02   Purpose
   
32.03   Effective date
   
32.04   Sales and use tax
Municipal Transient Tax on All Accommodations and Services
   
32.15   Established
   
32.16   Definitions
   
32.17   Transient room revenue tax
   
32.18   Collection
   
32.19   Use
   
32.20   Exemptions to transient room tax
   
32.21   Penalties and interest
   
32.22   Effective date
Resort Communities Tax
   
32.35   Title
   
32.36   Purpose
   
32.37   Definition
   
32.38   Effective date
   
32.39   Imposition of tax
   
32.40   Collection of tax
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Policies, see
Chapter 34
   Town Council, see
Chapter 30
MUNICIPAL SALES AND USE TAX
§ 32.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Sales and Use Tax Ordinance of the
Town of Boulder.”
(Ord. 18, passed 2-1-1990)
§ 32.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The 48th Session of the state legislature has authorized the counties
and municipalities of the state to enact sales and use tax ordinances imposing
a 1% tax.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to conform the Sales and Use Tax
of the municipality to the requirements of the Sales and Use Tax Act, UCA Title
59, Chapter 12, as currently amended.
(Ord. 18, passed 2-1-1990)
§ 32.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective as of 12:01 a.m., January 1, 1990.
(Ord. 18, passed 2-1-1990)
§ 32.04 SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   (1)   From and after the effective date of subchapter, there is levied
and there shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible
personal property, services and meals made within the municipality at the rate
of 1%.
      (2)   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in this municipality of tangible personal property from any
retailer on or after the operative date of this subchapter at the rate of 1% of
the sales price of the property.
      (3)   For the purpose of this subchapter, all retail sales shall be
presumed to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the
retailer or his or her agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. In the event a retailer
has no permanent place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be as determined under the rules and regulations
prescribed by and adopted by the State Tax Commission. Public utilities, as
defined by UCA Title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or
places within any county or municipality where public utilities services are
rendered, but the place of sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such
service allocable to the city shall be as determined by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   (B)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax Act, all of the
provisions of UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, as amended, and in force and effect on
the effective date of subchapter, insofar as they relate to sales taxes,
excepting UCA §§ 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, are hereby adopted and made a
part of this subchapter as though fully set forth herein.
      (2)   Wherever, and to the extent that in UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, the
state is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this
municipality shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this division (B) shall
be deemed to require substitution of the name of the municipality for the word
“state” when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax
Commission, or of the Constitution of the state, nor shall the name of the
municipality be substituted for that of the state in any section when the
result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the
municipality or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax
Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this subchapter.
      (3)   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under UCA § 59-
12-106, an additional license shall not be required by reason of this section.
      (4)   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or changed by
which the tax is measured:
         (a)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer of consumer; and
         (b)   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use
tax has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality
and any county in the state, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the Sales and Use Tax Act.
(Ord. 18, passed 2-1-1990)
MUNICIPAL TRANSIENT TAX ON ALL ACCOMMODATIONS AND SERVICES
§ 32.15 ESTABLISHED.
   It is the intent and purpose of the town to adopt a transient room tax
pursuant to, and in accordance with, UCA §§ 59-12-352 et seq.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -2019)
§ 32.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A place providing temporary sleeping accommodations to
the public, and includes:
      (1)   Any motel or hotel;
      (2)   Any motor court or motor lodge;
      (3)   An inn;
      (4)   A bed and breakfast establishment;
      (5)   Any vacation rental, resort home or similar establishment;
      (6)   A room, including, but not limited to, a temporary rentable space;
or
      (7)   Any similar accommodation which is available for short term rental.
   RENT. Any compensation received in exchange for providing public
accommodations. It includes any time share fees or other dues.
   TRANSIENT. The occupation by a person or persons of any public accommodation
for a period of 30 or fewer consecutive days.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -2019)
§ 32.17 TRANSIENT ROOM REVENUE TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby levied upon the business of every person, company,
corporation or other like and similar persons, groups or organizations doing
business in the town as any type of public accommodation an annual license tax
equal to 1% of the gross revenue derived from the rent for each and every
occupancy of any room, suite or other accommodation which is rented for a
period of 30 days or less.
   (B)   The said transient room tax may be modified at any time by ordinance,
subject to the limitations of UCA § 59-12-352(1) or other applicable law.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -2019)
§ 32.18 COLLECTION.
   The town shall contract with the State Tax Commission to collect the
municipal transient room tax. The Mayor is hereby authorized to enter into the
necessary and standard agreements with that agency as part of the initial set
up of the arrangement as well as any future transactions which may become
necessary for the continued administration of the arrangement.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -2019)
§ 32.19 USE.
   Revenues generated by the transient room tax shall be deposited in the
town’s General Fund, and may be used for any General Fund purpose, so long as
the same continues to comply with state law.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -2019)
§ 32.20 EXEMPTIONS TO TRANSIENT ROOM TAX.
   No transient room tax shall be imposed under this subchapter upon any
person:
   (A)   Engaged in business for a solely religious, charitable or other type
of strictly nonprofit purpose who is tax exempt in such activities under the
laws of the United States and the state; or
   (B)   Engaged in a business specifically exempted from municipal taxation
and fees by the laws of the United States or the state.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -2019)
§ 32.21 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   Penalties and interest equal to those authorized by UCA §§ 59-1-401 and 59-
1-402, as amended, or successor code sections or regulations, shall be imposed
on any person or entity who:
   (A)   Is required to pay the tax as set forth herein or by statute; and
   (B)   Does not remit the tax to the collecting agent within the time
prescribed by law.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -2019)
§ 32.22 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall become effective on February 1,
2019, after any required posting and/or publication has been accomplished
according to law.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed - -2019)
RESORT COMMUNITIES TAX
§ 32.35 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Resort Communities Tax Ordinance of
Boulder Town, Garfield County, State of Utah.”
(Ord. 38, passed 4-9-1998)
§ 32.36 PURPOSE.
   At the 1988 General Session, the 47th state legislature passed a bill
authorizing cities or towns of the state, in addition to other taxes, including
sales, use and transient room taxes, to impose a resort communities tax not to
exceed 1% of all non-exempt sales. The purpose of this subchapter is to enact
and impose such a tax as a means to foster the development of the town in order
to further the welfare of the citizens of the town and the economic growth of
the community.
(Ord. 38, passed 4-9-1998)
§ 32.37 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, syndicate or any group of combination acting as a unit.
(Ord. 38, passed 4-9-1998)
§ 32.38 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective at 12:01 a.m. on June 1, 1998.
(Ord. 38, passed 4-9-1998)
§ 32.39 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, there is hereby
imposed and levied, and there shall be collected and paid, in addition to any
other taxes, including, but not limited to, the uniform local sales and use tax
and the transient room tax, a resort communities tax, not to exceed 1% of all
sales in the town, subject to exemptions provided for in UCA § 59-12-104, and
shall exempt from said additional tax, wholesale sales and sales of single
items for which consideration paid is $2,500 or more.
   (B)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provision of UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 6, Tax
Collection, as amended, and in force and effect on the effective date of this
subchapter, are hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter as though
fully set forth herein.
      (2)   Wherever, and to the extent that in UCA Title 59, Chapter 12, Part
1, Tax Collection, as amended, the state is named or referred to as the taxing
agency or entity, the name of “Boulder Town” shall be substituted therefor.
Nothing in this division (B) shall be deemed to require substitution of the
name of the town for the word “state” when that word is used as part of the
title of the State Tax Commission, or of the Constitution of the state, nor
shall the name of the town be substituted for that of the state in any section
when the result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against the town or any agency or department thereof, rather than by or against
the State Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this subchapter.
   (C)   If an annual license has been or is issued to a retailer under UCA §
59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by reason of this
section.
(Ord. 38, passed 4-9-1998)
§ 32.40 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   The tax imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall be levied at the
same time and collected in the same manner as provided in the Local Sales and
Use Tax Act, Part 2, UCA Title 59, Chapter 12.
   (B)   Heretofore, the town has entered into an agreement with the State Tax
Commission to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this subchapter. The Town Council is hereby authorized to enter
into such supplementary agreement with the State Tax Commission as may be
necessary to the collection, administration and operation of the tax enacted
and imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 38, passed 4-9-1998)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
32.01 through
32.04 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine in an amount less than $300 or imprisonment for a
period of not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
32.35 through
32.40 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine in an amount not less than $1,000, or by
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Ord. 18, passed 2-1-1990; Ord. 38, passed 4-9-1998)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY OPERATION PLAN
Section
   
33.01   General provisions
   
33.02   Hazards analysis
   
33.03   Hazards list
   
33.04   Planning assumptions
   
33.05   Incident Command System (ICS)
   
33.06   National Incident Management Systems (NIMS)
   
33.07   Alert and notification
   
33.08   Emergency operation center
   
33.09   Emergency Support Functions (ESF)
   
33.10   Chain of command
   
33.11   Evacuation areas
   
33.12   Resources
§ 33.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The residents of the town, recognizing that they are faced with threat
of emergencies and disaster, have come together to maintain the overall health,
safety and general welfare of the town’s citizens.
   (B)   In order to establish effective response and minimize the loss of life
and property, the town Emergency Operation Plan (EOP) has been developed.
   (C)   The town EOP shall perform the following functions:
      (1)   Develop procedures for protection of personnel, equipment, supplies
and critical public records from the effects of disasters;
      (2)   Maintain and ensure continuity of government and other essential
services needed during a disaster;
      (3)   Develop and conduct regular emergency training and exercises; and
      (4)   Establish policy and develop operating plans.
   (D)   The town shall be responsible for continuous updating of the town EOP
and will ensure that this plan is consistent with county, state and federal
plans.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2008)
§ 33.02 HAZARDS ANALYSIS.
   The state is threatened by many hazards which may cause disruption in
communities, multiple casualties and damage or destruction of public and
private property within the town.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2008)
§ 33.03 HAZARDS LIST.
   (A)   Hazards:
      (1)   Flooding;
      (2)   Earthquake;
      (3)   Severe weather;
      (4)   Severe winter storm;
      (5)   Landslides;
      (6)   Hazardous material spills; and
      (7)   Terrorism.
   (B)   Each hazard listed above has been classified as having limited,
moderate or severe impact on each community. See County EOP for description.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2008)
§ 33.04 PLANNING ASSUMPTIONS.
   (A)   It is possible for a major disaster to occur at any time and place. In
many cases, warning and implementation increase readiness; however, some
emergency situations occur with little or no warning.
   (B)   A disaster may require town government to operate in a manner
different from normal day-to-day routines and will create a situation where
town resources are seriously overextended.
   (C)   Town Council would initiate action to activate its Emergency Operation
Center (EOC).
      (1)   All responses are governed by four priorities: life safety;
incident stabilization; protection of property; and protection of environment.
      (2)   The town will fully commit its resources before requesting
assistance from the county and the state.
      (3)   All local, county, state, federal and mutual aid response agencies
will be expected to use Incident Command System (ICS) when responding.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2008)
§ 33.05 INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEM (ICS).
   (A)   The ICS is a management system designed to enable effective and
efficient incident management by integrating a combination of facilities,
equipment, personnel, procedures and communications operating within a common
organizational structure. ICS is flexible and used for a broad spectrum of
emergencies, from small to complex incidents, both natural and human-made,
including acts of catastrophic terrorism.
   (B)   The town utilizes ICS-based incident management, and all responders
will assume the appropriate function within the system. For more detailed
information of the ICS, refer to the County EOP, pages 12 to 14, that is
attached to the ordinance from which this subchapter is derived.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2008)
§ 33.06 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS (NIMS).
   (A)   NIMS will be initiated to:
      (1)   Save lives and protect the health and safety of the public,
responders and recovery workers;
      (2)   Prevent an imminent incident;
      (3)   Protect and restore critical infrastructure and key resources;
      (4)   Protect property and mitigate damages and impacts to individuals,
communities and the environment; and
      (5)   Facilitate recovery of individuals, families, businesses,
government and the environment.
   (B)   The town will maintain NIMS standards.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2008)
§ 33.07 ALERT AND NOTIFICATION.
   Town residents may receive notification of a disaster or impending emergency
from multiple sources:
   (A)   Television or radio;
   (B)   Fire Department;
   (C)   County Dispatcher;
   (D)   Sheriff sirens;
   (E)   UNIS; and
   (F)   Town fire sirens.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2008)
§ 33.08 EMERGENCY OPERATION CENTER.
   (A)   Alert and notification of the EOC rest with the Mayor or designee. The
town will support the request for the EOC activation from the Incident
Commander (IC) on scene or the Fire Chief.
   (B)   It is the policy of the town that any activation of the EOC will
require the attendance of the personnel outlined in this plan. Not all EOC
activation will require all to be in attendance.
   (C)   The EOC is to be activated when the resource needs of an incident
exceed the capabilities of the local response teams.
   (D)   EOC will be located at the town’s fire station located at 51 East 300
North, Boulder, Utah 84716. Phone: 435-335-7576.
   (E)   The town fire station will be the information center for the town for
all emergencies that require activation of the EOC. All of the communication
will be processed from the EOC. The fire station has the capability to page out
emergency workers by local paging, two-way radios, phones, cellular service and
the internet.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2008)
§ 33.09 EMERGENCY SUPPORT FUNCTIONS (ESF).
   Will be found in the County EOP that has all of the checklists to track an
emergency if needed. They are found on pages 15 to 17 in the County EOP.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2008)
§ 33.10 CHAIN OF COMMAND.
   (A)   Chain of command:
      (1)   Mayor;
      (2)   Fire Chief;
      (3)   Mayor Pro-tem; Organization of Religious Groups, Schools, and
Businesses;
      (4)   Council member designee, Fire, Search and Rescue, EMS, Office-
financial, Clerk;
      (5)   Council member designee, Water, Sewer, Water Supervisor; and
      (6)   Council member designee, Roads and Streets, Public Buildings.
   (B)   If at any time one Council member is over burdened and another without
responsibilities, the Mayor, at his or her discretion, may appoint new
assignments according to the disaster and needs.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2008; Ord. 2021-3, passed - -2021)
§ 33.11 EVACUATION AREAS.
   In case of evacuation, citizens would be evacuated to one of the following
areas:
   (A)   Boulder Elementary School; 280 N. 200 E. Phone: 335-7322;
   (B)   Boulder Town Hall 351 N. 100 E. Phone: 335-7300; or
   (C)   Boulder LDS Church 180 E. 300 N. Phone: 335-7302.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2008; Ord. 2021-3, - -2021)
§ 33.12 RESOURCES.
   Resources:
   (A)   NIMS Protocol;
   (B)   Garfield County EMTs;
   (C)   Garfield County CERT members;
   (D)   Boulder Fire Department;
   (E)   Nurses and Home Health;
   (F)   County Search and Rescue;
   (G)   Appendix 1: Boulder Town Pandemic Plan; and
   (H)   Appendix 2: Garfield County EOP.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2008)
CHAPTER 34: ADMINISTRATIVE TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Policies
   
34.01   Right to be buried in the Town Cemetery
   
34.02   Recovery of expenses from hazardous materials emergencies
   
34.03   Electronic meetings
Approval of Written Minutes
   
34.15   Definitions
   
34.16   Policy for approval of minutes
GENERAL POLICIES
§ 34.01 RIGHT TO BE BURIED IN THE TOWN CEMETERY.
   (A)   Rights to be buried in the Town Cemetery will be sold after the death
of the person for whom the right to be buried is sought. Sales will be made
through the Town Clerk who, by appointment of the Town Council, acts as the
Cemetery Coordinator. The fee for the right to be buried is the cost of opening
and closing the grave per each person buried, which fee must be paid in advance
of the burial. The Town Council, acting through the Cemetery Coordinator,
reserves the right to place reasonable restrictions on the exact location
within the cemetery where a person may be buried.
   (B)   The right to be buried in the Town Cemetery is limited to individuals
for whom the fee has been paid and who:
      (1)   Were residents of or lived within ten miles of the town at the time
of their death;
      (2)   Were prior residents of or lived within ten miles of the town;
      (3)   Owned real estate within or within ten miles of the town at the
time of their death;
      (4)   Previously owned real estate within or within ten miles of the
town; and
      (5)   Are relatives of any persons described above and the degree of
relationship is to the third degree of consanguinity or closer as shown on the
Table of Consanguinity attached to the ordinance comprised herein as Exhibit A.
(Ord. 43A, passed 7-7-2005)
§ 34.02 RECOVERY OF EXPENSES FROM HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EXPENSES. All costs incurred for the response, containment and/or removal
and disposal of hazardous materials on initial remedial action. It includes,
but is not necessarily limited to, the actual labor costs of government and
other personnel, including workers’ compensation benefits, fringe benefits,
administrative overhead and any costs of equipment, equipment operation,
materials, disposal and any contract labor or materials.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY. A sudden and unexpected release of any
substance that, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics, presents a direct and immediate threat to public
safety or the environment, and requires immediate action to mitigate the
threat.
   (B)   Recovery of expenses.
      (1)   Those persons or entities whose negligent or intentional actions
cause or create, in whole or in part, a hazardous materials emergency within
the boundaries of the county is liable to the county for all costs and expenses
incurred in or arising from response to such hazardous materials emergency by
the county and any other political subdivision, agency or cooperative entity.
The county shall recover all such costs and expenses, including reasonable
attorneys fees, litigation expenses and court costs incurred in, related to or
arising out of, all cost recovery efforts and enforcement of the terms of this
section.
       (2)   All costs and expenses shall be billed at the current rate
established and approved by resolution of the Executive Committee of the
Interlocal Agreement for Cooperative Hazardous Materials Protection and
Services.
      (3)   The payment of expenses under this section does not constitute an
admission of liability or negligence in any legal action for damages.
   (C)   Cost recovery procedure.
      (1)   The county shall investigate and determine the person or entity
responsible for causing or creating the hazardous materials emergency and shall
notify the responsible party in writing of said determination of responsibility
and the amount of costs and expenses incurred by the county in responding to
the hazardous materials emergency.
      (2)   The notice required by division (C)(1) above shall specify that the
party determined to be responsible for causing or creating the hazardous
materials emergency has the right to appeal the decision determining
responsibility to the governing body of the county and shall specify a deadline
for filing the notice of appeal and the person or office in which it must be
filed. The deadline for filing the notice of appeal shall not be less than 15
days from the date of the notice.
      (3)   In the event a notice of appeal is filed, the hearing before the
governing body shall be an informal public hearing, and the parties shall not
be required to adhere to the State Rules of Civil Procedure or evidence. The
appealing party and the county shall each be entitled to present evidence and
argument in support of their respective positions, in accordance with
procedures established at the hearing by the governing body.
      (4)   The decision of the governing body shall be final.
   (D)   Action to recover costs.  In the event the responsible party fails or
refuses to pay all of the costs and expenses determined by the county related
to or arising out of the county’s response to the hazardous materials emergency
within 30 days after assessment or after the governing body’s decision on an
appeal, the county may initiate a legal action to recover such costs, including
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.
   (E)   Expenses of other responding entities.
      (1)   In the event that personnel and equipment from other political
subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities shall respond to assist with the
hazardous materials emergency, then the county shall recover costs and expenses
incurred by such other political subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities
as part of county’s cost recovery efforts.
      (2)   Upon recovery of costs and expenses from the responsible party, the
county is authorized to reimburse such other political subdivisions, agencies
or cooperative entities for their actual costs incurred in responding to the
hazardous materials emergency.
(Ord 52, passed 5-5-2004)
§ 34.03 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council, the Planning Commission, the Board of Adjustments,
and any other body created by Boulder Town may conduct electronic meetings at
the discretion of the presiding officer or by majority vote of the members.
   (B)   Electronic meetings shall be conducted in accordance with the
requirements of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act Section 52-4-207.
   (C)   All members present at the anchor location or participating
electronically shall be counted for the purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (D)   The notice for any electronic meeting shall indicate the physical
anchor location and instructions for how to connect electronically to the
meeting.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 9-1-2022)
APPROVAL OF WRITTEN MINUTES
§ 34.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply so
long as they are consistent with the definitions of the same terms found in the
State Open and Public Meetings Act. If a term is defined differently in the
State Open and Public Meetings Act, the definition found in that Act shall
apply.
   CONVENING. The calling of a meeting of a public body by a person authorized
to do so for the express purpose of discussing or acting upon a subject over
which that public body has jurisdiction or advisory power.
   MEETING.  
      (1)   The convening of a public body, with a quorum present, including a
workshop or an executive session whether the meeting is held in person or by
means of electronic communications, for the purpose of discussing, receiving
comments from the public about, or acting upon a matter over which the public
body has jurisdiction or advisory power.
      (2)   MEETING does not mean:
         (a)   A chance meeting;
         (b)   A social meeting; or
         (c)   The convening of a public body that has both legislative and
executive responsibilities where no public funds are appropriated for
expenditure during the time the public body is convened, and:
               1.   The public body is convened solely for the discussion or
implementation of administrative or operational matters for which no formal
action by the public body is required; or
               2.   The public body is convened solely for the discussion or
implementation of administrative or operational matters that would not come
before the public body for discussion or action.
   MEETING CLERK. The Town Clerk (or his or her acting deputies) for the Town
Council, or shall mean the person assigned by a public body, other than a Town
Council, to record and to take the written minutes of a meeting of a public
body of this municipality.
   MINUTES. Of a meeting, is a written record of the meeting that shall
include:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The names of members present and absent;
      (3)   The substance of all matters proposed, discussed or decided by the
public body which may include a summary of comments made by members of the
public body;
      (4)   A record, by individual member, of each vote taken by the public
body;
      (5)   The name of each person who:
         (a)   Is not a member of the public body; and
         (b)   After being recognized by the presiding member of the public
body, provided testimony or comments to the public body.
      (6)   The substance, in brief, of the testimony or comments provided by
the public under division (5) above; and
      (7)   Any other information that is a record of the proceedings of the
meeting that any member requests be entered in the minutes or recording.
   PROPOSED MINUTES. The written minutes prepared by the Meeting Clerk that
have been given to the members of a public body for their review and approval.
   PUBLIC BODY. Any administrative, advisory, executive or legislative body of
this municipality that:
      (1)   Is created by the Utah Constitution, statute, rule, ordinance or
resolution;
      (2)   Consists of two or more persons;
      (3)   Expends, disburses or is supported in whole or in part by tax
revenue; and
      (4)   Is vested with the authority to make decisions regarding the
public’s business.
(Ord. 62, passed 8-6-2009)
§ 34.16 POLICY FOR APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
   The following shall be the policy and procedure for the approval of minutes
for this municipality.
   (A)   Written minutes shall be taken for all public meetings of any public
body of this municipality. The minutes of all public meetings of any public
body of this municipality shall be recorded and taken down by the Meeting Clerk
during the course of any public meeting of the public body.
   (B)   Within 15 working days from the end of the meeting, the Meeting Clerk
shall prepare proposed minutes for the meeting and give a copy of the proposed
minutes to each member of the public body for his or her review and comments.
   (C)   Once the proposed minutes have been given to the members of the public
body, the Meeting Clerk shall immediately make available to the public the
proposed written minutes, which shall be clearly identified as “awaiting formal
approval” or “unapproved” or with some other appropriate notice that the
proposed minutes are subject to change until formally approved and they shall
become a public document available to any member of the public who requests to
read or copy the proposed minutes.
   (D)   The public body shall consider the proposed minutes for approval at
the first regularly scheduled meeting of the public body that immediately
follows the Meeting Clerk giving the proposed minutes to the members of the
public body. The proposed minutes would only need to be considered if there
were a sufficient number of members present who were at the previous meeting
for which the minutes were prepared such that the members present could approve
the accuracy of the minutes. If there are an insufficient number of the members
present to approve the minutes, the public body could defer consideration of
the minutes until the next meeting wherein a sufficient number of the members
are present. The members of the public body shall either approve the proposed
written minutes as presented or vote to correct and amend the proposed written
minutes and then approve the corrected and amended written minutes.
   (E)   If the public body fails to consider the proposed minutes, or does not
take any action to approve the proposed minutes, at the first regularly
scheduled public meeting held by the public body (with sufficient members
present at the former meeting) immediately following the public body’s receipt
of the proposed minutes from the Meeting Clerk, the proposed minutes shall be
deemed to have been approved by the public body and will stand as proposed. As
noted above, the public body need not consider the proposed minutes if an
insufficient number of members who were present at the prior meeting are
present at the subsequent meeting, and failure to do so would not constitute a
de facto approval.
   (F)   Once the proposed minutes have either been approved by the public
body, or have been deemed to have been approved by the inaction of the public
body, they shall become the official record of the proceedings of the public
body and shall be signed by the Clerk of the meeting and shall be retained in
the official records of this municipality and shall be a public document
available for the inspection and copying by members of the public as
appropriate under state law.
(Ord. 62, passed 8-6-2009)
CHAPTER 35: WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE CODE
Section
   
35.01   Adoption of the Wildland Urban Interface Code
§ 35.01 ADOPTION OF THE WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE CODE.
   For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to
life and property from impacts related to development in wildlands, Boulder
Town hereby adopts by reference as if set out in full herein, the 2006 Edition
of the Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code, with the amendments identified in
R652-122 of the Utah Administrative Code and any subsequent editions as
currently set forth or as amended in the future by the Division of Forestry,
Fire, and State Lands, unless specifically excepted by amendment to the
ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed - -2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEPTIC SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 50: SEPTIC SYSTEMS
Section
   
50.01   Permit required
§ 50.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No construction involving the installation or modification of an
individual wastewater disposal system in the town shall begin until plans and
specifications for the individual wastewater disposal system have been reviewed
and approved by the Southwestern Utah District Health Department and a copy of
its permit received by the town.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of this section is a Class B
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 17, passed 5-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
[Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   STREET TREES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Nuisance
   
90.02   Violations
   
90.03   Bitten
   
90.04   Enforcement
§ 90.01 NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person or entity within the boundaries of the town that owns or has
control over a dog or dogs shall allow the dog(s) to disturb the peace and
quiet enjoyment of another person; or to disturb or endanger the health or
welfare of another person or neighborhood.
   (B)   Any of the following acts or omissions constitutes a nuisance per se
and constitutes a violation of this chapter:
      (1)   Allowing a dog or dogs to bark, howl, growl, yelp or make other
noises for a continuous period of 30 minutes, or intermittently in excess of 60
minutes, at a volume that such noise is heard by persons located off the
property where the dog(s) are kept;
      (2)   Allowing a dog or dogs to emit noxious or offensive odors that are
smelled by persons located of the property where the dog(s) are kept for a
continuous period of 30 minutes, or intermittently in excess of 60 minutes; or
      (3)   Allowing a dog or dogs that are known to have previously bitten or
attacked another human being without provocation to bite or attack another
human being without provocation.
(Ord. 60, passed 9-18-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violators of this chapter are entitled to receive a verbal or written
warning for the first offense under this chapter. Law enforcement officers or
other persons authorized by the town to enforce this chapter shall keep a
written record of the date, time and location of the warning given. Citations
will only be issued for violations occurring following issuance of a warning.
If no citation is issued within 30 days following issuance of a warning,
violators are entitled to receive another warning prior to issuance of a
citation for violations occurring following the prior warning.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter shall constitute a Class C misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, the violator may be punished in accordance with the jail
sentence and fines provided under state law for Class C misdemeanors.
Violations of this chapter may also be abated through civil actions in court
brought by the state, the county, the town or any private individual who is a
victim of a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 60, passed 9-18-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 BITTEN.
   Any victim or any other person reasonably acting to protect a victim or a
victim’s property who is being bitten or attacked by a dog may destroy the dog
if reasonably necessary to do so to protect the person or property.
(Ord. 60, passed 9-18-2008)
§ 90.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When investigating a violation of this chapter, the investigating
officer or official (“official”) should meet with the complaining witness to
determine whether or not a violation of this chapter has occurred. The official
shall request from the complaining witness information relating to the
complaint including specific times, dates, intervals, locations and other
relevant information regarding the complaint.
   (B)   Prior to issuing a citation of this chapter, the official shall inform
the complaining witness that the complaining witness will be required to appear
in court to testify as to the circumstances regarding the alleged violation. If
the official reasonably determines that the complaining witness cannot, will
not or is unwilling to cooperate to prosecute the alleged violation and appear
and testify at the hearing or trial, the official should determine not to issue
a citation and make a determination that no further action will be taken with
regard to the complaint.
   (C)   The official shall attempt to ascertain the names of the owners of the
premises where the alleged violation has occurred and the names of any and all
persons present at the premises where the alleged violation occurred and the
names of the owner, keeper or possessor of the dog(s).
   (D)   When providing oral or written warnings required by this chapter, the
official shall keep accurate notes regarding the names of persons to whom the
oral or written warnings were provided, the dates and times of such warnings,
and a location where such warnings were given. A copy of any written warnings
shall be retained by the official.
   (E)   In the event an official investigates subsequent alleged violations,
the official shall note on the citation the date and time of prior warnings
within the prior 30 days.
(Res. 2008-2, passed 9-1-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavation of Town Streets
   
91.01   Permit franchise required
   
91.02   Excluded excavation
   
91.03   Subject excavations
   
91.04   Preparations
   
91.05   Backfill
   
91.06   Restoration of surfaces
   
91.07   Restoring bituminous
   
91.08   Gravel surfaces
   
91.09   Protection of public during excavation project
   
91.10   Relocation and protection of utilities
   
91.11   Inspection and acceptance
   
91.12   Application for street excavation permit
Private Roads Intersecting with Public Roads
   
91.25   Specifications
   
91.26   Variance
   
91.27   Permit required
   
91.28   Violation
EXCAVATION OF TOWN STREETS
§ 91.01 PERMIT FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall make an excavation in any street, lane or alley, or
remove any pavement or other material from any street or improvement thereon
without first obtaining a permit from the Town Council.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to waive the
franchise required for any person by the ordinances of this municipality or
laws of the state.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-3-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 EXCLUDED EXCAVATION.
   Excavations of any kind in municipal streets in projects designed,
contracted for and inspected by the municipal engineer or other authorized
personnel of the municipality, do not come within the scope of this subchapter.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-3-1985)
§ 91.03 SUBJECT EXCAVATIONS.
   Excavations for installation or repair of water lines, sewer lines, gas
lines, electrical cable and conduits, telephone cable and conduits, and all
other excavations for any other purpose within the street rights-of-way of the
municipality or in other public places.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-3-1985)
§ 91.04 PREPARATIONS.
   The pavement, sidewalk, driveway or other surface shall be cut vertically
along the lines forming the trench in such a manner as to not damage the
adjoining pavement or hard surfacing. An undercut bevel at the rate of one inch
per foot of thickness will be provided at the proposed junction between the old
and new surfaces. The portion to be removed shall be broken up in a manner that
will not cause damage to the pavement outside the limits of the trench.
However, any pavement damaged by operations outside the limits of the trench
shall be removed immediately from the site of the work.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-3-1985)
§ 91.05 BACKFILL.
   (A)   Materials for backfill will be of select nature. All broken concrete,
peat, decomposed vegetable matter and similar materials obtained from
excavation will be removed from the site prior to beginning of backfilling. All
backfill will be placed in layers not over eight inches loose measure in
thickness. Compaction will be obtained by mechanical rollers, mechanical
tampers or similar means. Material for backfilling will have optimum moisture
to ensure compaction to a degree equivalent to that of the undisturbed ground
in which the trench was dug. Jetting or internal vibrating methods of
compacting sand fill or similar methods of compacting sand or similar granular-
free draining materials will be permitted.
   (B)   The density (dry) of the backfill under pavements, sidewalks, curbs or
other structures will be not less than that existing prior to excavation. The
fill shall be restored and placed in a good condition which will prevent
settling.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-3-1985)
§ 91.06 RESTORATION OF SURFACES.
   (A)   General. All street surfacing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, driveways or
other hard surfaces falling in the line of the excavation which must be removed
in performance of the work shall be restored in kind by the excavator, unless
otherwise directed by the governing body, in accordance with the specifications
contained herein governing the various types of surfaces involved.
   (B)   Protection of paved surfaces. In order to avoid unnecessary damage to
paved surfaces, track equipment shall use pavement pads when operating on or
crossing paved surfaces.
   (C)   Time. In traffic lanes of paved streets, the excavator shall provide
temporary gravel surfaces or cold mulch in good condition immediately after
backfill has been placed, and shall complete permanent repairs on the street,
sidewalk, curb, gutter, driveway or other surfaces, within five days from the
date of completion of the backfill except for periods:
      (1)   When permanent paving material is not available;
      (2)   When weather conditions prevent permanent replacement; or
      (3)   When an extension of time is granted by the Superintendent of
Streets.
   (D)   Temporary repair. If temporary repair has been made on paved street
with gravel and a permanent repair cannot be made within the time specified
above due to any of the above-mentioned conditions, then the excavator shall be
required to replace the gravel with cold mulch as soon as possible.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-3-1985)
§ 91.07 RESTORING BITUMINOUS.
   Asphalt street surfaces:
   (A)   Temporary grade surface. 
      (1)   Where excavations are made in paved areas, the surface shall be
replaced with a temporary gravel surface. The gravel shall be placed deep
enough to provide a minimum of six inches below the bottom of the bituminous
surface.
      (2)   Normally, this will require nine inches of gravel for bituminous
surfaces. The gravel shall be placed in the trench at the time it is
backfilled. The temporary gravel surface shall be maintained by blading,
sprinkling, rolling, adding gravel, to maintain a safe, uniform surface
satisfactory to the inspector until the final surface is laid.
      (3)   Excess material shall be removed from the premises immediately.
Material for use on temporary gravel surfaces shall be obtained from sound,
tough, durable gravel or rock meeting the following requirements for gradings:
 
Passing 1-inch sieve   100%
Passing 3/4-inch sieve 85% - 100%
Passing No. 4 sieve    45% - 65%
Passing No. 10 sieve   30% - 50%
Passing No. 200 sieve  5% - 10%
 
   (B)   Bituminous surface. The exposed edges of existing pavement shall be
primed with Type MC-1 bituminous material. The type, grade and mixture of the
asphalt to be used for street surface replacement shall be approved by the
Superintendent of Streets. The thickness shall be equal to the adjacent surface
thickness but not less than three inches. The complete surface shall not
deviate more than one-half inch between old and new work.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-3-1985)
§ 91.08 GRAVEL SURFACES.
   Trenches excavated through gravel-surfaced area, such as gravel roads and
shoulders and unpaved driveways, shall have the joints and surfaces made to
match the original surfaces. The thickness of the gravel shall be a minimum of
one inch more than the thickness of the existing gravel.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-3-1985)
§ 91.09 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC DURING EXCAVATION PROJECT.
   Excavation operations shall be conducted in such a manner that a minimum
amount of interference or interruption of street traffic will result.
Inconvenience to residents and businesses fronting on public streets shall be
minimized. Suitable, adequate and sufficient barricades shall be available and
used where necessary to prevent accidents involving property or persons.
Barricades must be in place until all the excavator’s equipment is removed from
the site and excavation has been backfilled and proper temporary gravel surface
is in place. From sunset to sunrise, all barricades and excavations must be
clearly outlined by acceptable warning lights, lanterns, flares and other
devices. Police and Fire Departments shall be notified at least 24 hours in
advance of any planned excavation requiring street closures or detour.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-3-1985)
§ 91.10 RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES.
   An excavator shall not interfere with any existing utility without the
written consent of the utility. If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing
utility, it shall be done by its owner unless the owner otherwise directs. No
utility, whether owned by municipality or private enterprise, shall be moved to
accommodate the permittee, unless the cost of such work be borne by the
permittee, or an expressly written agreement is made, whereby the utility owner
and the excavator make other arrangements relating to such cost. The permittee
shall support and protect by timbers or otherwise all pipes, conduits, poles,
wires or other apparatus which may be in any way affected by the excavation
work, and shall do everything necessary to support, sustain and protect them
under, over, along or across the work. In case any of the pipes, conduits,
poles, wires or apparatus should be damaged (and for this purpose pipe coating
or other encasement or devices are considered as part of a substructure), they
shall be repaired by the agency or person owning them, but the utility owner
shall be reimbursed for the expense of such repairs by the permittee. It is the
intent of this subchapter that the permittee shall assume all liability for
damage to substructures, and any resulting damage or injury to anyone because
of such substructure damage and such assumption of liability shall be deemed a
contractual obligation which the permittee accepts upon acceptance of an
excavation permit. The municipality need not be made a party to any action
because of this section. The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence
and location of all underground utilities and protect the same against damage.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-3-1985)
§ 91.11 INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   In order to ensure proper backfill and restoration of surface, the
permittee shall deposit a surety bond or cash deposit with the Town Clerk
payable to the municipality, except that a public utility operating or using
any of the streets under a franchise from the municipality will not be required
to furnish such bond, providing such franchise obligates the holder thereof to
restore the streets and to hold the municipality harmless in the event of any
injury to any person or damage to any property due to negligence of such holder
in conducting excavation and restoration operations under such franchise. The
required surety bond must be:
      (1)   With good and sufficient surety;
      (2)   By a surety company authorized to transact business in the state;
      (3)   Satisfactory to the Municipal Attorney in form and substance;
      (4)   Conditions upon the permittee’s compliance with this subchapter in
order to secure and hold the municipality and its officers harmless against any
and all claims, judgments or other costs arising from the excavation and other
work covered by the excavation permit or for which the municipality, the
governing body or any municipal office may be made liable by reason of any
accident or injury to any person or property through the fault of the permittee
arising out of failure to properly guard the excavation or any other negligence
of the permittee; and
      (5)   Conditioned to fill up, restore and place in good and safe
condition, as near as may be to its original condition, and to the satisfaction
of the municipality, all opening and excavations made in streets, and to
maintain any street where excavation is made in as good condition for the
period of 36 months after the work shall be done, usual wear and tear excepted,
as it was before the work shall have been done.
   (B)   The amount of the surety bond or cash deposit shall be established by
Town Council and may be changed from time to time, but until the next change is
enacted the amount of surety or cash deposit shall be $500 for excavations up
to five feet in width that cross a street and shall be $10 per foot in length
for excavations up to five feet in width that excavate along the direction of
the street. For excavations in excess of five feet wide, the amount of the
surety bond or cash deposit shall be determined by the Mayor and Town Council.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-3-1985)
§ 91.12 APPLICATION FOR STREET EXCAVATION PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break, excavate, tunnel, undermine or
in any manner affect the surface or base of any street or to place, deposit or
leave upon any street any earth or any other excavated material obstructing or
tending to interfere with the free use of the street, unless such persons shall
first have obtained an excavation permit therefor from the Town Clerk. Any
public utility regulated by the state or holding a franchise from the
municipality which in the pursuit of its calling has frequent occasion to open
or make excavations in streets, may, upon application, receive a general permit
from the municipality to cover all excavations such utilities may make within
the streets of the municipality. All permits shall be subject to revocation and
the municipality may refuse to issue a permit for failure of the permittee or
applicant to abide by the terms and conditions of this section. Excavation
permits will not be requested prior to excavation in case of emergency
endangering life or property, providing the municipality is notified as soon as
practicable and a permit is applied for upon the next working day following the
emergency.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-3-1985; Ord. passed 21-1-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
PRIVATE ROADS INTERSECTING WITH PUBLIC ROADS
§ 91.25 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Following are the engineering specifications for a private road intersecting
with a public road in the town limits.
   (A)   A private road shall intersect with a public road at a 90-degree
angle.
   (B)   The slope of the driving surface of a private road, beginning at the
intersection with a public road and extending for 100 feet, shall have a grade
of no more than 2%.
   (C)   The width of the driving surface of a private road, beginning at the
intersection with a public road and extending for 100 feet, shall be no less
than 22 feet.
   (D)   The driving surface at the intersection of a private road and public
road shall extend to a radius, of the intersecting roads, of no less than 40
feet.
   (E)   The shoulder of a private road, beginning at the intersection with a
public road and extending for 100 feet, shall have a slope of no less than four
to one.
   (F)   The width of the driving surface of the private road shall be no less
than 22 feet, if said road is to be eligible for public status.
   (G)   The shoulder of a private road shall have a slope of no less than four
to one, if said road is to be eligible for public status.
   (H)   The owner or contractor of the private road shall place an authorized
“Stop” sign at the intersection of a private road and public road such that the
sign controls the traffic entering the intersection from the private road.
   (I)   The surface material of the intersecting road must be the same as that
of the public road for a distance of 30 feet from the center of the public
road.
   (J)   When deemed necessary by the Town Council, the owner of the private
road shall install an adequate culvert for drainage at the intersection of a
private road with the public road.
(Ord. 42B, passed 5-2-2001)
§ 91.26 VARIANCE.
   Upon written request, the Town Council may issue a variance to these
specifications, provided that such variance does not result in the diminution
of safety to the citizens of the town.
(Ord. 42B, passed 5-2-2001)
§ 91.27 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Anyone who desires to make a new road that will intersect with a town road
must first obtain a permit from the Town Council.
(Ord. 42B, passed 5-2-2001)
§ 91.28 VIOLATION.
   The violation of any provision of this subchapter is a Class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. 42B, passed 5-2-2001)
CHAPTER 92: STREET TREES
Section
   
92.01   Purpose and intent
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Designation of a Street Tree Advisory Board
   
92.04   Ordinance administration
   
92.05   Street tree maintenance and care by the town
   
92.06   Street tree maintenance and care by citizens
   
92.07   Appeals
§ 92.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The town recognizes and attributes substantial economic,
environmental and aesthetic value to the trees and other plantings within the
community. It is in the best interests of the citizens and public that a plan
be developed to standardize the planting and maintenance of trees within
easements, in rights-of-way and all other public places within the town.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of the Town Council that the terms of this
chapter shall be construed as to promote:
      (1)   The planning, planting, maintenance, restoration, protection and
survival of desirable trees within the town; and
      (2)   The protection of community residents from personal injury and
property damage, and the protection of the town from property damage caused or
threatened by the improper planting, maintenance or removal of trees located in
and upon public areas and rights-of-way within the town.
(Ord. 71, passed 10-3-2013)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREE. Any trees or other woody vegetation in public parks and grounds.
   STREET TREE. Any tree planted within the town right-of-way on either side of
all streets, lanes, trails or ways within the town.
   TOP or TOPPING. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three
inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove the
normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
   TREE BOARD. The group of citizens charged by ordinance to develop and
administer a tree management program for trees on public property.
   TREE TRIMMING. The removal of plant parts to control growth and enhance
performance or function in the landscape by developing and preserving tree
structure and health. The removal of water sprouts, sucker growth and hanging
limbs is not considered TREE TRIMMING according to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 71, passed 10-3-2013)
§ 92.03 DESIGNATION OF A STREET TREE ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Tree Board. A Tree Board shall be designated by the Mayor. The Board
shall consist of members of the community interested in promoting the benefit,
growth and health of trees.
   (B)   Assist the town. It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to
study, investigate, counsel and assist with the development of a plan for the
care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of
trees in parks, along streets and in other public areas. The Tree Board shall
write and implement an annual work plan and submit an annual budget to qualify
and be deemed a Tree City USA.
   (C)   Service without pay. All members of the Tree Board shall serve without
pay.
(Ord. 71, passed 10-3-2013)
§ 92.04 ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Authority. The Council member responsible for administering and
enforcing this chapter will be appointed by the Mayor. He or she shall:
      (1)   Have supervision of all trees planted or growing in public rights-
of-way or town-owned places within the town;
      (2)   Supervise the planting, trimming, spraying, preservation and
removal of street trees and other plants in public streets, in town cemeteries
and in town parks to promote safety, protect town utilities and preserve the
beauty of such public places; and
      (3)   Supervise the maintenance of street trees and park trees.
   (B)   Desirable street tree list. The Tree Board shall prepare a “suggested
street tree list” containing the botanical and common names of all trees
approved to be planted in streets, trails, parks or easements. The Tree Board
shall also develop an undesirable street tree list containing the botanic and
common names of all trees not approved to be planted in streets, trails, parks
or easements. These lists may be revised from time to time by the Tree Board to
include other suitable or undesirable trees.
   (C)   Public awareness. The Town Clerk shall make copies of this chapter
available to any interested persons through the town office and on the town
website.
(Ord. 71, passed 10-3-2013)
§ 92.05 STREET TREE MAINTENANCE AND CARE BY THE TOWN.
   (A)   Standards. The town should make reasonable efforts to maintain all
trees located within town streets, parks, rights-of-way, landscape borders or
on town-maintained property.
   (B)   Town tree planting and maintenance. The town shall have the right to
plant, prune, maintain and remove street trees located within the public
rights-of-way.
   (C)   Tree replacement. The town may replace street trees which have died or
been removed for any reason, or plant additional street trees deemed
appropriate and consistent with available resources.
   (D)   Tree topping. It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person
or firm to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property
excepting on easements controlled by local utility companies. Trees damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted
from this chapter at the determination of the Town Council.
   (E)   Town authority. The town may condemn and remove, or order to be
removed, any tree or tree stump upon any of the public owned property within
this town where the same is dead, diseased or for any reason whatsoever deemed
undesirable or unsafe by the Tree Board.
(Ord. 71, passed 10-3-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 STREET TREE MAINTENANCE AND CARE BY CITIZENS.
   (A)   Planting. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or organization
of any kind must obtain written approval from the Tree Board prior to planting
a tree in any public right-of-way. Said approval shall specify with a drawing/
plan the location and variety of trees to be planted.
   (B)   Trimming. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or organization
of any kind must obtain approval from the Tree Board and the Town Council prior
to trimming any designated street tree/plant. Approval is not required for
removing minor limbs causing obstructions.
   (C)   Adjacent property owners to maintain trees on their property. Trees
and other plantings on adjacent property shall not inappropriately overhang or
encroach upon sidewalks, streets, public rights-of-way or other designated
pedestrian ways, nor obstruct the view of traffic signs or any street
intersection. Trees and other plantings that project over any street or access
road that may be used for emergency purposes shall be trimmed to a safe height
and shape. Adjacent property owners shall remove all dead, diseased or
dangerous trees; or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to public
safety, at their expense; or prune to eliminate encroachment on sidewalks and
streets.
   (D)   Removing stumps. Any tree that shall be removed from any of the public
streets or places within the town shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the level of the
ground, unless permission to leave a projecting stump is granted by the Tree
Board.
   (E)   Approval required. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
organization of any kind must obtain approval from the Tree Board prior to
removing any tree found upon any public street or on any town-owned property
within the town.
   (F)   Considerations on removing or replacing a street tree. In determining
whether a tree may be removed and replaced, the Tree Board shall consider,
among other things, the following:
      (1)   Whether the tree(s) pose a potential for safety problems despite a
sound maintenance program;
      (2)   Whether the roots from adjacent park or street trees are
interfering with sewer lines servicing the abutting property to the extent that
the property owner requires frequent repair of said sewer lines;
      (3)   Whether the tree is dead, dying or incurably diseased;
      (4)   Whether the tree is diseased and weakened by age, storm, fire or
other injuries so as to pose a danger to persons, property, improvements or
other trees;
      (5)   Whether the tree(s) is of an undesirable species;
      (6)   Whether the tree poses a hardship to the adjacent property owner
such as, but not limited to, the cracking or raising of a garage floor or, in
the case of a handicapped person, special circumstances exist which cause the
location of the tree to become a hindrance for vehicle and handicapped access;
and
      (7)   Whether removal is necessary for construction of a street widening
or other public improvement project, or necessary street or public improvement
repair work.
(Ord. 71, passed 10-3-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 APPEALS.
   The decision of the Tree Board may be appealed by any person. The appeal
shall be in writing, signed by the applicant with a statement of reasons
supporting the appeal. The appeal shall be filed with the Town Clerk no later
than the 15th calendar day following the decision of the Tree Board. The Town
Council shall hear the appeal and render an opinion within 45 days after the
appeal is filed.
(Ord. 71, passed 10-3-2013)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   General requirements
   
110.02   Town License Officer; powers and duties
   
110.03   Procedure for issuance of a license
   
110.04   License fees
   
110.05   License certificate
   
110.06   License administration
   
110.07   Definitions
§ 110.01 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern all businesses within the
municipal limits of the town, and shall regulate all business licenses required
and granted by the town, excluding licenses for the sale of alcoholic
beverages.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to regulate business
activities, promote the safety, health and prosperity of the community, and
protect the comfort and convenience of its citizens.
   (B)   Compliance required. It shall be unlawful for any person, either
directly or indirectly, to conduct any business or non-profit enterprise, or to
use in connection therewith, any vehicle, premises, machine or device in whole
or in part for which a license is required by any law or ordinance of this town
without a license first being procured and kept in effect at all such times as
required by law. Failure to comply with these regulations shall be a Class B
misdemeanor.
   (C)   One act constitutes doing business. For the purpose of this chapter,
any person shall be deemed to be in business or engaging in non-profit business
and thus subject to the requirements of this chapter when any of the following
are done:
      (1)   Selling any goods or service;
      (2)   Soliciting business or offering goods or services for sale or hire;
or
      (3)   Acquiring or using any vehicle or any premises in the town for
business purposes.
   (D)   Responsibility for obtaining a license. It shall be the responsibility
of the person engaging in business within the town to voluntarily apply and
maintain in full force and effect a valid license. The agents or other
representatives of non-residents who are doing business in the town shall be
personally responsible for compliance by their principals and the businesses
they represent with the terms of this chapter.
   (E)   Separate license for branch establishments. A license shall be
obtained in the manner prescribed herein for each branch establishment or
location of the business engaged in, as if each branch establishment or
location were a separate business, provided that warehouses used in connection
with and incidental to a business licensed under the provisions of this chapter
shall not be deemed to be separate places of business or branch establishments.
   (F)   Joint license. A person engaged in two or more businesses at the same
location may be required to obtain separate licenses for conducting each of
such businesses, but in the discretion of the town when such businesses are
complementary, a single license may be issued which shall specify on its face
all such businesses operated at that location. A fee for each separate business
activity specified on the face of such license shall be required. However, such
joint license shall not include a license for beer sales.
   (G)   No license required. No license shall be required under this chapter
for any business operating under the following conditions:
      (1)   Business is solely resale. No license shall be required for any
solicitor or salesperson who solicits, obtains orders for or sells goods in the
town solely for resale and maintains no premises in the town in connection
therewith;
      (2)   Business is solely agricultural production. No license shall be
required for any person in the business of producing crops or raising of
livestock either for use or sale;
      (3)   Business is of an incidental nature. No license shall be required
for any person who provides a service on a limited basis, does not have a
regular place of business, does not meet the requirements of a “home
occupation” as defined in this chapter, does not earn more than $1,000 per year
from such activity and is determined by the Town Council to qualify under this
section. This exclusion is intended to apply to, but is not limited to,
activities such as limited local services provided by minors in an effort to
generate limited supporting income;
      (4)   Business is non-profit. No license shall be required for any person
engaged in business solely for religious, charitable, eleemosynary or any other
types of strictly non-profit purpose which is tax exempt in such activities
under the laws of the United States and the state;
      (5)   Business is exempt from municipal taxation. No license shall be
required on any person engaged in a business specifically exempted from
municipal taxation and fees by the laws of the United States or the state; or
      (6)   Business licensed by reciprocating authority. No license shall be
required on any person who does not maintain a place of business within the
town and has paid a similar fee to another municipality or county within the
state; provided, such authority exempts from its fees, businesses domiciled in
the town doing business within such authority.
   (H)   Class of license. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be of
the following classes:
      (1)   Class I (general business license). This class shall include all
businesses that do not meet the requirements of a “home occupation” as defined
in this chapter;
      (2)   Class II (home occupation license). This class shall include all
businesses that meet the requirements of a “home occupation” as defined in this
chapter; and
      (3)   Class III license for temporary businesses. The class includes all
types of businesses expected to do business in the town for a time period equal
to or less than a “temporary use” as defined in the town zoning ordinance.
   (I)   Term of license. All licenses, except temporary business licenses,
shall be effective from the date of issue through the end of the current
calendar year and shall expire on January 1 of the succeeding year, unless the
application for license specifically requests a shorter term. Licenses issued
for a temporary business shall be effective from the date of issuance and will
extend for the period of time the business is doing business within the town
but not to exceed the time period for a temporary use as defined in the town
zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 28C, passed 3-6-2002; Ord. passed 8-6-2003)
§ 110.02 TOWN LICENSE OFFICER; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Town License Officer. The Town Clerk shall serve as the License
Officer for all responsibilities specified in this section.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The License Officer shall have the following powers
and duties:
      (1)   The officer shall issue licenses in the name of the town to all
persons qualified under the provisions of this chapter upon payment to the town
of all license fees required hereunder. All information furnished to or secured
by the officer under the authority of this section shall be kept in accordance
with state and local laws governing the accumulation, handling and
dissemination of such documents and information, and those charged with
administration of this chapter may release the name, address and nature of said
business upon request;
      (2)   The officer shall adopt all forms and prescribe the information
required therein as to all matters relevant to the issuance of a license. An
application shall include, as a minimum, the following information:
         (a)   The name of the person desiring a license and the name under
which the business will be conducted;
         (b)   The class of license desired;
         (c)   Description of the business, trade or profession to be provided
or practiced;
         (d)   The place where such business, trade, or profession is to be
located; and
         (e)   The period of time for which such license is desired, if less
than the remaining calendar year.
      (3)   Investigate information submitted. The officer may investigate and
determine the eligibility of any applicant or licensee, either at the time of
issuance of a license or within a reasonable time thereafter, in such manner as
may be reasonable and necessary for the proper administration and enforcement
of this chapter;
      (4)   Inspect premises and records. The officer may inspect prospective
or existing places of businesses to ensure compliance with all applicable
building, fire, safety and health codes, and any other regulations necessary to
the administration and enforcement of the laws of the town, the state and the
United States. In order to perform the required inspections, the officer shall
utilize the Town Fire Marshal, the Town Building Inspector and the Town Legal
Counsel, who shall serve as ex-officio license deputies. Said deputies are
hereby authorized to examine places of business subject to this chapter, at
reasonable times and upon proper advance notice to the applicant or licensee,
and shall report any violations to the License Officer;
      (5)   Give notice. The officer shall notify each applicant of the
acceptance or rejection of his or her application. In the event of rejection,
the applicant may request and receive the reason(s) for his or her rejection in
writing; and
      (6)   Good standing of applicant or licensee. The officer shall determine
that the applicant or licensee is not in default under the provisions of any
town ordinance; determine that he or she is not in violation of any town zoning
regulation by reason of the condition of the business premises or the use to be
made thereof. A favorable determination of the applicant’s standing in light of
these factors shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of a license under
this chapter.
(Ord. 28C, passed 3-6-2002)
§ 110.03 PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE OF A LICENSE.
   (A)   Application required. A written statement shall be submitted upon
forms provided by the License Officer.
      (1)   Form of application. A written statement upon forms provided by the
License Officer.
      (2)   Contents of application. The License Officer shall require the
disclosure of all information which the officer shall find to be reasonably
necessary to the fair administration of this chapter, that the business is
properly licensed and registered as required, and complies with all applicable
state or federal laws.
      (3)   Payment of fees. Payment in full of all fees chargeable for such
license.
   (B)   Issuance of receipt. Whenever a license cannot be issued at the time
of application, the License Officer shall issue a receipt for the money paid in
advance, subject to the condition that an issued receipt shall not be construed
as approval for the issuance of a license, nor shall it entitle or authorize
the applicant to open or maintain any business contrary to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   Due date for applications. All applications for new or renewal
licenses shall be made in writing and submitted to the License Officer on or
before January 1 of each year on forms as set forth herein. The fee payment in
full shall accompany the annual application. Unless otherwise notified by the
licensee, the officer is entitled to presume the continued operation of any
business licensed in the preceding year.
   (D)   Other licenses required. For any business requiring a license from the
state or the United States, the obtaining of such license is a prerequisite to
receiving a license under this chapter.
   (E)   Approval of application. In the event the town shall approve an
application for a license, such approval shall be acknowledged by the issuance
of a license certificate signed by the Mayor and attested by the Town Clerk.
   (F)   Non-approval of application. Upon disapproval of any application
submitted under the provisions of this chapter, the License Officer shall
refund all fees paid in advance to the applicant.
      (1)   Hearing before the Town Council. Upon denial of a license, an
applicant may appear before the Town Council for the purpose of presenting
reasons for setting aside such denial. If the applicant makes such appearance
and presents adequate justification, the Town Council may, in its discretion,
set aside the denial and approve the application.
      (2)   Compliance pending legal action. When the issuance of a license is
denied and any action is instituted by the applicant to compel its issuance,
such applicant shall not engage in the business for which a license was refused
unless a license shall be issued pursuant to a judgment ordering the same.
   (G)   Renewal license procedure. An applicant for renewal of a license shall
submit an application for renewal to the License Officer on such forms provided
by the town.
   (H)   Duplicate license procedure. A duplicate license shall be issued by
the License Officer to replace any license previously issued which has been
lost, stolen, defaced or destroyed upon the filing by the licensee of a
statement of such condition and paying a replacement fee of $5.
(Ord. 28C, passed 3-6-2002)
§ 110.04 LICENSE FEES.
   Every person engaged in business within the town shall pay an annual license
fee as required by this chapter unless specifically excluded by this chapter or
qualifying under the exemptions section of this chapter.
   (A)   Class I license fee. The Class I license fee shall be $25 per year.
   (B)   Class II license fee. The Class II license fee shall be $5 per year.
   (C)   Class III license for temporary businesses. The license fee for a
temporary business shall be $15.
   (D)   Payment of license fee. All license fees provided for in this chapter
shall be payable annually in advance.
   (E)   Pro-rated fees. Any application for a license pursuant to this chapter
filed subsequent to June 30 of any year shall be required to pay a pro-rated
fee equal to one-half of the annual license fee.
   (F)   Rebate of fee. No rebate or refund of any license fee or part thereof
shall be made by reason of non-use of such license or by reason of a change of
location or due to any business rendering the use of such license ineffective.
   (G)   Late fee penalties. Any license fee due on January 1 that is paid
later than February 1 shall be considered to be late and subject to a late
penalty charge equal to 50% of the license fee. Any such fee not paid by March
1 shall render the business to be operating without a license and in violation
of this chapter. Such business shall be subject to criminal prosecution for
every day of operation after March 1. Any such license issued after March 1
shall be subject to a late penalty charge of 100% of the license fee. No
license shall be issued until the license fee and all penalties have been paid
in full.
   (H)   License fee additional. The license fee herein provided for shall be
in addition to any and all licenses and taxes imposed by any other ordinance of
the town.
   (I)   Fee not to constitute an undue burden on interstate commerce. The
license fee specified by this chapter shall be applied so as to not create an
undue burden on interstate commerce. In any case, where the license fee is
believed by a licensee or applicant to place an undue burden upon such
commerce, they may apply to the License Officer for an adjustment of the fee so
that it shall not be discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair. Such application
may be made before or within six months after payment of the prescribed license
fee. The applicant shall, by affidavit and supporting testimony, describe his
or her method of business and the gross volume or estimated gross volume of
such business and provide such other information as the License Officer may
deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of any undue burden on
such commerce. The License Officer shall then conduct an investigation,
comparing the applicant’s business with other businesses of like nature and
shall make findings of facts from which he or she shall determine whether the
fee specified in this chapter is discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair to the
applicant’s business. The License Officer shall recommend to the Town Council a
license fee for the applicant that is not discriminatory, unreasonable or
unfair. If the Town Council is satisfied that such license fee is the amount
that the applicant should pay, the Council shall adjust the license fee
accordingly. If the regular license fee has already been paid, the Council
shall order a refund of the amount over and above the fee established by the
Council. In setting the fee to be charged, the License Officer shall have the
power to base the fee upon a percentage of gross sales or may use any other
method which will assure that the fee assessed will be uniform with that
assessed on businesses of a like nature.
(Ord. 28C, passed 3-6-2002; Ord. passed 8-6-2003)
§ 110.05 LICENSE CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Certificate information. Each license certificate issued hereunder
shall state on its face the following information:
      (1)   The name of the licensee and any other name under which such
business is to be conducted;
      (2)   The class of license issued;
      (3)   The location where the business, trade or profession is to be
conducted;
      (4)   The date of issuance and expiration thereof; and
      (5)   Such other information as the License Officer shall determine.
   (B)   Certificate display. Every license certificate issued under this
chapter shall be posted by the licensee in a conspicuous place upon the wall of
the building, room or office of the place of business so that the same may be
easily seen. When such certificate has expired, it shall be removed by the
licensee from the place of posting and no certificate which is not in full
force and effect shall remain posted within the place of business. If the
licensee’s business is such that a certificate cannot be displayed, due to the
transient or mobile nature of the business, then the licensee shall carry such
certificate during all times in which the licensee is engaged in or pursuing
the business for which such certificate has been issued and shall provide the
certificate upon the request of an authorized officer.
(Ord. 28C, passed 3-6-2002)
§ 110.06 LICENSE ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Transfer of license. No license issued under this chapter shall be
assigned or transferred to any other person. A license shall not be deemed to
authorize any person, other than the named licensee, to conduct business for
which the license has been issued nor to authorize any other person, business,
trade or profession to conduct business permitted under the authority of such
license.
   (B)   Revocation of license. Any license issued pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter may be revoked by the Town Council due to:
      (1)   The failure of the licensee to comply with the requirements of this
chapter or any other regulation of the town, the state or the United States; or
      (2)   The conduct of any unlawful activities, or the permitting of such
activities, on the premises of the business.
   (C)   Notice of revocation. Prior to the revocation of a license or denial
of an application to renew a license, the licensee or applicant shall be given
notice stating the reason(s) the Town Council intends to revoke the license or
deny the application for renewal and the date of the meeting at which such
action shall be taken. Notice shall be given a least ten days prior to such
meeting, but not more than 30 days prior. The licensee or applicant shall have
the right to appear before the Council, and to be represented by legal counsel,
to hear the evidence supporting such action and shall have the right to present
evidence as to why the license should not be revoked or the application denied.
   (D)   Reciprocal recognition of licenses.
      (1)   No license shall be required for operation of any vehicle or
equipment in the town when:
         (a)   Such vehicle is merely passing through the town; and
         (b)   Such vehicle is used exclusively for inter-town or interstate
commerce.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person whose only business
activity in this municipality is the mere delivery of property sold by such
person at a regular place of business maintained outside the town where:
         (a)   Such person’s business is at the time of delivery licensed by a
state municipality or county in which such place of business is situated;
         (b)   The authority licensing such business grants to licensees of the
town making deliveries within its jurisdiction, the same privilege upon
substantially the same terms, as granted under this section; and
         (c)   Neither the property delivered nor any of the facilities by
which it was manufactured, produced or processed are subject to inspection by
the town for compliance with health or sanitary standards.
      (3)   The License Officer shall, at the request of any person, certify a
copy of this section to any municipality or county of the state.
(Ord. 28C, passed 3-6-2002)
§ 110.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes all activities engaged within the town carried on for the
purpose of gain or economic profit, except that the acts of employees rendering
service to employers shall not be included in the term BUSINESS, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
   EACH SEPARATE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Each separate establishment or place of
operation, whether or not operating under the same name, within the town,
including a home or other place of lodging if the same is held out by
advertisements, listings or otherwise as the establishment or place of
operation of a person engaging in the business of selling tangible, personal
property at either retail or wholesale, or both, in the town.
   EMPLOYEE.  The operator, owner or manager of a business and any persons
employed by such person in the operation of said business in any capacity and
also any salesperson, agent or independent contractor engaged in the operation
of the business in any capacity.
   ENGAGING IN BUSINESS. Includes, but is not limited to, the sale of tangible
personal property at retail or wholesale, the manufacturing of goods or
property and the rendering of personal services for others. The term shall
include those persons engaged in any profession, trade, craft, business,
occupation or other calling, except the rendering of personal services by an
employee to his or her employer under any contract of personal employment.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An activity carried out for gain by a resident and
conducted entirely within the resident’s home and/or a separate building of no
more than 750 square feet and is clearly incidental and accessory to the
residential use of the dwelling or property, and provided that the HOME
OCCUPATION:
      (1)   Does not change the residential character of the residence and does
not result in noise, vibration, light, odor, dust, smoke or other air pollution
noticeable at or beyond the property line;
      (2)   Does not include any outside storage of goods, materials or
equipment;
      (3)   Has no signage;
      (4)   Complies with all required federal and state licensing
requirements; and
      (5)   Complies with all required local licensing requirements.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Each separate location maintained or operated by the
licensee within the town from which business activity is conducted or
transacted.
   WHOLESALE. A sale of tangible personal property by wholesalers to retail
merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers for resale, and does not
include a sale by wholesalers or retailers to users or consumers not for
resale, except at otherwise specified.
   WHOLESALER. A person doing a regularly organized wholesale jobbing business
and selling to retail merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers, for the
purpose of resale.
(Ord. 28C, passed 3-6-2002)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Retail licenses
   
111.03   Beer and liquor license fees
   
111.04   License fees to accompany application
   
111.05   Purchase of beer for resale
   
111.06   Application for license
   
111.07   Renewals
   
111.08   Qualification
   
111.09   Department of Health permit
   
111.10   Transfer of license
   
111.11   Restrictions
   
111.12   Revocation or suspension
   
111.13   Application for license
   
111.14   Issuance of license
   
111.15   Business license required
   
111.16   License assessor and collector
   
111.17   Payment dates
   
111.18   Late payment
   
111.19   Certificate
   
111.20   Display
   
111.21   Additional requirements for licenses
   
111.22   Authorizing the issuance of licenses for the sale of alcoholic
beverages
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings specified
in the State Liquor Control Act unless a different meaning is clearly evident.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.02 RETAIL LICENSES.
   Retail licenses issued hereunder shall be of the following six kinds and
shall carry the following privileges and be known as Class A, Class B,
Restaurant Liquor, Retail Package Liquor, Class C and seasonal licenses.
   (A)   Class A retail licenses issued hereunder shall entitle the licensee to
sell beer on the premises licensed in original containers for consumption off
the premises in accordance with the State Liquor Control Act and the ordinances
of the town.
   (B)   Class B retail licenses shall entitle the licensee to sell beer on the
premises for consumption on the premises in conjunction with the sale of food
in accordance with the State Liquor Control Act and the ordinances of the town.
   (C)   Restaurant liquor licenses shall entitle the licensee to sell alcohol
on the premises for consumption on the premises in conjunction with the sale of
food in accordance with the State Liquor Control Act and the ordinances of the
town.
   (D)   Retail package store licenses issued hereunder shall entitle the
licensee to sell beer and alcohol on the premises in the original containers
for consumption off the premises in accordance with the State Liquor Control
Act and the ordinances of the town.
   (E)   Class C licenses for retail shall entitle the licensee to sell draft
beer for consumption on or off the premises and to sell beer in accordance with
the State Liquor Control Act and the ordinances of the town.
   (F)   Seasonal licenses of any class may be issued for a period of time not
to exceed one year which period shall be determined by the Town Council.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995; Ord. 29B, passed 10-8-1999; Ord. 29D, passed 9-4-
2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 BEER AND LIQUOR LICENSE FEES.
   (A)    In addition to any other business license fee which any person or
place of business may be required to pay, there is hereby imposed on the
business location every person engaged in the sale or dispensing of beer or
liquor the following annual license fees:
      (1)   Class A beer license: $50 for the initial license and $50 per
renewal;
      (2)   Class B beer license: $50 for the initial license and $50 per
renewal;
      (3)   Restaurant liquor: $50 for the initial license and $50 per renewal;
      (4)   Retail package liquor: $50 for the initial license and $50 per
renewal; and
      (5)   Class C beer license: seasonal licenses.
   (B)   No Class C licenses are authorized in the town. No seasonal licenses
are authorized in the town.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995; Ord. 29B, passed 10-8-1999; Ord. 29D, passed 9-4-
2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 LICENSE FEES TO ACCOMPANY APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications provided for in this chapter shall be accompanied by the
fees provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The fee shall be returned to the applicant if the application is
denied.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.05 PURCHASE OF BEER FOR RESALE.
   It is a Class B misdemeanor for any licensee to purchase or acquire or to
have or possess for the purpose of sale or distribution any beer except that
which he or she shall have lawfully purchased from a brewer or wholesaler
licensed under the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All applications for licenses authorized by this chapter shall be
verified and shall be filed with the Clerk. The applications must state the
applicant’s name in full and that he or she understands and has read and
complied with the requirements and possesses the qualifications specified in
the Liquor Control Act and this chapter. If the applicant is a copartnership,
the names and addresses of all partners, and if a corporation, the names and
addresses of all officers and directors, must be stated.
   (B)   Application must be subscribed by the applicant who shall state under
oath and by notarized signature that the facts therein contained are true.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.07 RENEWALS.
   All applications for renewal licenses filed by the holders of existing
licenses shall be filed with the Clerk at least 30 days prior to the expiration
date of the then issued license. Any person who fails to file such application
within the time limit shall close his or her licensed premises on the
expiration date of the then issued license and shall keep the premises closed
for any and all business for the sale of beer until the date his or her new
license is issued by the Town Council.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.08 QUALIFICATION.
   No license shall be granted to any retailer to sell beer within the town
unless he or she shall be of good moral character, over the age of 21 years,
and a citizen of the United States, or to any one who has been convicted of a
felony or of any violation of any law of the state or provision of the
ordinances of this town relating to intoxicating liquors, or of keeping a
gambling or disorderly house, or who has pleaded guilty to or has forfeited his
or her bail on a charge of having committed a felony or of having violated any
such law or ordinance, or to any partnership, any member of which lacks any of
the qualifications set forth in this section, or to any corporation, of which
any director or officer lacks any such qualifications.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.09 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH PERMIT.
   No license under this chapter shall be issued until the applicant therefor
shall have first procured from the Department of Health a permit which shall
show that the premises to be licensed are in a sanitary condition and that the
equipment used in the storage, distribution or sale of beer complies with all
the health regulations of this town and the state.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.10 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be transferable, and if
revoked by the Town Council, the fee paid by the licensee to the town for the
license shall be forfeited to the town.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.11 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell beer at any public dance or to
any person intoxicated, or under the influence of any intoxicating beverage. It
is unlawful for any person to sell beer in any dance hall or theater.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell beer to any person under the age of 21.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer except in the manner
for which he or she has been so licensed pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   The town shall not issue to any individual or business:
      (1)   A Class A retail license to sell beer which contains more than 0.4%
alcohol by weight in the original container strictly for consumption off the
premises;
      (2)   A Class B restaurant license to sell and serve beer which contains
more than 4.0% alcohol by weight strictly for consumption on the premises and
in connection with the purchase and consumption of food;
      (3)   A restaurant liquor license to sell and serve alcohol strictly for
consumption on the premises in connection with the purchase and consumption of
food, unless done pursuant to the licensing, rules and regulations of the State
Alcohol Beverages Control Commission; and
      (4)    A retail package store license to sell beer and alcohol in the
original containers strictly for consumption off the premises, unless done
pursuant to the licensing, rules and regulations of the State Alcohol Beverages
Control Commission.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain a nuisance as defined in this
chapter.
   (F)   The total number of businesses licensed to sell beer and alcohol in
this town shall not exceed three Class A licenses, two Class B licenses, two
restaurant liquor licenses, one retail package liquor license, and zero Class C
licenses, provided that this chapter shall not operate to reduce the number of
businesses now licensed to sell beer and alcohol whether issued by this town or
by the county if such business is annexed, nor shall it affect reapplication
for such licenses.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995; Ord. 29B, passed 10-8-1999; Ord. 29D, passed 9-4-
2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Town Council may, after a hearing, revoke or suspend any beer
license on a finding by it that the licensee or his or her officers, agents or
employees have violated any provision of this chapter or any ordinance of this
town whether now or hereafter enacted which is in any way related to the
operation of the business or the safety of the public.
   (B)   A hearing may be requested by any person:
      (1)   That is denied or refused a beer license by any officer, agent or
employee of this town; and
      (2)   Whose beer license is revoked, restricted, qualified or limited
from that for which it was first issued.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.13 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applicants for permits and licenses under this chapter shall file a sworn
application in writing signed by the applicant, if an individual, by all
partners, if a partnership, and by the president if a corporation, or by an
agent, including a state or regional agent, with the Clerk which shall give the
following information:
   (A)   The name of the applicant, and if the applicant is an employee or
agent of a corporation, the name of the corporation;
   (B)   The address of the applicant, and if the applicant is an agent or
employee of a corporation, the address of the corporation;
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold and from whom and where the applicant obtains the goods to be sold;
   (D)   If the applicant is employed by or an agent of another person, the
name and permanent address of such other person or persons; and
   (E)   The length of time for which the applicant desires to engage in
business within the town.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.14 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   If the character and business responsibility of the applicant is found
to be satisfactory, the Clerk shall, upon payment of the prescribed license
fee, deliver to the applicant his or her permit and issue a license.
   (B)   The license shall contain the signature of the issuing officer and
shall show the name and address of the licensee and the kind of goods to be
sold pursuant to the application together with an expiration date.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.15 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be a Class B misdemeanor for any person to sell alcoholic beverages
without first receiving the type of license required by the town.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.16 LICENSE ASSESSOR AND COLLECTOR.
   The Clerk is designated and appointed as ex officio assessor of license fees
for this town. On receipt of any application for a license, the Clerk shall
assess the amount due thereon and shall collect all license fees based upon the
rate established by ordinance. He or she shall enforce all provisions of this
chapter, and shall cause to be filed complaints against all persons violating
any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.17 PAYMENT DATES.
   All license fees shall be due and payable as follows, except as may be
otherwise provided in the applicable ordinance.
   (A)   Annual fees shall be payable before each fiscal year in advance. The
annual license shall date from July 1 of each year and shall expire on June 30
of the following year.
   (B)   Annual fees shall be due on the first day of each fiscal year and
shall become delinquent if not paid by August 1 each year.
   (C)   One-half of the annual fee shall be payable for all licenses issued by
the town pursuant to applications made after January 1 of each year and
licenses issued after January 1 shall expire on the first day of the following
July. Payment shall be due upon the date of application.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.18 LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   If any license fee is not paid within 30 days of the due date, a
penalty of 25% of the amount of such license fee shall be added to the original
amount thereof.
   (B)   No license shall be issued until all penalties legally assessed have
been paid in full.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.19 CERTIFICATE.
   All certificates of license shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the
Clerk, and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name of the person to whom such certificate has been issued;
   (B)   The amount paid;
   (C)   The type of license and the class of such license if licenses are
divided into classes;
   (D)   The term of the license with the commencing date and the date of its
expiration;
   (E)   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
conducted; and
   (F)   The place or places within the town where the applicant proposes to
carry on his or her business.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.20 DISPLAY.
   Every certificate of license issued under this chapter shall be posted by
the licensee in a conspicuous place upon the wall of the building, room or
office of the place of business so that the same may be easily seen. When such
certificate of license has expired, it shall be removed by the licensee from
such place in which it has been posted, and no certificate of license which is
not in force and effect shall be permitted to remain posted upon the wall or
any part of any room within the place of business.
(Ord. 29A, passed 8-24-1995)
§ 111.21 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSES.
   (A)   The total number of licenses that can be issued for the sale of beer
within the boundaries of the town shall be three Class A licenses, as set out
in §
111.11.
   (B)   A holder of a license to sell beer within the boundaries of the town
issued pursuant to §§
111.01 through
111.20 will be allowed to renew the license for subsequent years provided
timely application is made for renewal in accordance with the renewal
provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.20 and provided the license holder maintains the qualifications and
requirements of §§
111.01 through
111.20 and this section; provided, however, that the Town Council reserves the
right to excuse the late filing of a renewal application by the most recent
license holder if the late filing is shown to be the result of excusable
neglect and if the showing is made to the Town Council no later than 60 days
following the expiration date of the license. Such business is nevertheless
required to close the business for the sale of beer from the date of expiration
until such time as the license is renewed.
   (C)   (1)   Although licenses issued pursuant to §§
111.01 through
111.20 to sell beer within the boundaries of the town are not transferrable,
and each business owner must apply for and be granted a license in accordance
with the terms of §§
111.01 through
111.20, a preference for the issuance of a license will be given to a
subsequent business owner who:
         (a)   Purchases or otherwise acquires ownership of the business for
which the prior license was issued; and
         (b)   Intends to continue operation of the same or substantially the
same business at the same location as the prior license holder.
      (2)   If the successor business owner otherwise qualifies for issuance of
the license, such owner will be given a preference for issuance of a license
over all other qualified applicants. The most recent license holder or the
successor business owner may exercise the preference by filing an application
for the issuance of a license pursuant to §§
111.01 through
111.20 and by informing the Town Clerk and Town Council in writing of the
change or proposed change in ownership of the business. The application and
notice can be filed at any time prior to the time the new license is issued.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application filed with the Town Clerk for issuance
of a license to sell beer within the boundaries of the town, the Town Clerk
shall within a reasonable period of time from the receipt of such application,
determine if any of the three licenses authorized to be issued pursuant to §§
111.01 through
111.20 and this section are unissued. If any licenses are unissued, the Clerk
will submit the application to the Town Council for consideration. If there are
no unissued licenses, the Town Clerk will, within a reasonable period of time,
inform the applicant that no licenses are currently available for issuance. The
Town Clerk shall keep the application on file, and the application will be
considered to be “active” for a period os six months from the date the
application is received by the Clerk. If no licenses become available within a
period of six months from the date the application is received by the Clerk,
the application will expire and the town will have no obligation to consider
the application further.
   (E)   A license authorized under §§
111.01 through
111.20 will be deemed to be available for issuance:
      (1)   On the first business day following 60 days after the expiration of
a license issued to another license holder if a renewal application was not
timely filed with the Clerk in the time period required by §§
111.01 through
111.20 and the Town Council has not excused the late filing;
      (2)   On the first business day following the final revocation of a
license by the Town Council under the provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.20; or
      (3)   On the first business day following the date the Town Council
determines (based on credible and substantial information) that a prior license
holder has abandoned the license.
   (F)   After reasonable inquiry and determination made by the Town Council
that an applicant for issuance of license to sell beer within the town has met
the qualifications and requirements of §§
111.01 through
111.20, and upon a determination made by the Town Council and Clerk that a
license is available for issuance, the license shall be issued to the applicant
with the highest priority based on the following: first, to the holder of a
preference granted by this section for issuance of a license; second, to the
applicant with the earliest filed “active” application as of the date the
license is deemed to be available for issuance. The license application fee
will be due and payable at the time the license is issued.
   (G)   In addition to the revocation or suspension provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.20, the Town Council may revoke or suspend a license to sell beer to any
license holder that is determined by the Town Council, after a hearing, to not
meet the qualifications and requirements of §§
111.01 through
111.20. Suspensions under §§
111.01 through
111.20 and this section shall be granted in the discretion of the Town Council
and shall be temporary and not exceed six months in duration. Revocations shall
terminate the license and all preferences that would otherwise accompany the
license.
(Ord. 29B, passed 10-8-1999)
§ 111.22 AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF LICENSES FOR THE SALE OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Sections
111.01 through
111.20 are hereby amended to allow the issuance of a Class B retail licenses to
sell beer for on-premises consumption to the owner of each restaurant within
the town that applies for and satisfies the other requirements of §§
111.01 through
111.20.
   (B)   A license to sell liquor for on-premises consumption is hereby
authorized to be issued to the owner of each restaurant within the town that
applies for and satisfies the other requirements of §§
111.01 through
111.20.
   (C)   Each Class B license issued under this section shall entitle the
licensee to sell beer on the premises of the restaurant for consumption on the
premises of the restaurant in conjunction with the sale of food in accordance
with the Act and the ordinances of the town.
   (D)   Each liquor license issued under this section shall entitle the
licensee to sell liquor on the premises of the restaurant for consumption on
the premises of the restaurant in conjunction with the sale of food in
accordance with the Act and the ordinances of the town.
   (E)   The initial license fee for a Class B beer license is $50 and the
annual renewal fee is $50.
   (F)   The initial license fee for a liquor license is $50 and the annual
renewal fee is $50.
   (G)   The liquor licenses that may be issued under this section include
limited restaurant licenses and full service restaurant licenses under state
law.
   (H)   All other provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.20 that are not inconsistent with this section remain in full force and
effect.
   (I)   This section in no way amends the provisions governing the issuance of
Class A beer licenses and the issuance of all Class A licenses will continue to
be governed by the terms of §§
111.01 through
111.20 and §
111.21.
   (J)   Nothing in this section authorizes the issuance of Class C and
seasonal licenses for the sale of beer as described in §§
111.01 through
111.20.
   (K)   Each Class B beer license under this section must also obtain an on-
premises beer retailer license from the State Alcoholic Beverages Control
Commission and must comply with all other applicable requirements of the Act
and other applicable law in order to sell beer within the town.
   (L)   Each licensee of a liquor license under this section must also obtain
an on-premises liquor retailer license from the State Alcoholic Beverages
Control Commission and must comply with all other applicable requirements of
the Act and other applicable law in order to sell liquor within the town.
   (M)   Authorization under this section is on an annual basis. The town is at
liberty to amend or repeal this section and discontinue allowing alcohol
licenses. There is no expectation of continued licensing beyond each annual
period.
(Ord. 29D, passed 9-4-2014)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   FIREWORKS; BURNING
CHAPTER 130: FIREWORKS; BURNING
Section
   
130.01   Fire restrictions
§ 130.01 FIRE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or use any kind of fireworks,
pyrotechnic devices or tracer ammunition within the town. Each separate
firework or device used will constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Open fires are allowed so long as they are confined to an improved
stone or metal lined fire pit or if pre-approved by the Town Council and
directly supervised by the Town Fire Department. Otherwise, open fires are not
allowed.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to smoke outdoors in the town, except on a
surface cleared of vegetation or other flammable material.
   (D)   Each offense shall constitute a Class B misdemeanor.
   (E)   The restrictions listed in this section are in effect each year from
June 1 to Oct 31. The Boulder Town Council may, however, make these and/or
other restrictions effective at other times during any year by passing an
appropriate ordinance or resolution. Such should not be construed as a
permanent amendment to this section unless the same is clearly set forth by
ordinance.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 6-7-2018; Ord. 2021-3, - -2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PLAN
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PLAN
Section
   
150.01   Adoption
§ 150.01 ADOPTION.
   The General Plan of the town is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 2019-3 passed 8-1-2019)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building and Construction; Approval and Permits
   
151.01   Project approval required
   
151.02   Building permit required
   
151.03   Application and fee
   
151.04   Approval by Building Inspector
   
151.05   Violations
   
151.06   Duties of Building Inspector
   
151.07   Discretion to approve or reject
   
151.08   No material variation from permit
   
151.09   Right of appeal
   
151.10   Adoption of Uniform Codes
   
151.11   Time periods in which licensees must commence and complete
construction of approved building projects
Local Building Authority
   
151.25   Approval, establishment and adoption
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION; APPROVAL AND PERMITS
§ 151.01 PROJECT APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Any person or entity, before building, remodeling or otherwise structurally
altering any dwelling or other building of any kind, including mobile homes, at
a cost and/or value of a certain amount, within the incorporated area of the
municipality, shall first obtain project approval from the town, verifying that
there is sufficient water, sewer and wastewater capacity, and that the project
complies with the zoning ordinance and floodplain ordinance and all other
adopted ordinances for the municipality.
(Ord. 32A, passed 6-5-1996; Ord. 32B, passed 7-7-1999)
§ 151.02 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   After obtaining project approval from the municipality, the party shall then
obtain a building permit from the County Building Inspector.
(Ord. 32A, passed 6-5-1996)
§ 151.03 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   The party applying for a building permit shall first file with the
County Building Inspector an application, on a form authorized and approved by
the county, together with the applicable fee, and shall fully and completely
disclose all information required to complete the same.
   (B)   The amount of such fee shall be in accordance with the schedule,
attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference as “Exhibit A.”
(Ord. 32A, passed 6-5-1996)
§ 151.04 APPROVAL BY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   Upon receipt of the application, fee and preliminary approval by the town,
if it appears to the County Building Inspector that the application complies
with all applicable laws and regulations, it shall be approved.
(Ord. 32A, passed 6-5-1996)
§ 151.05 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person or entity who fails to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. Each day of non-compliance
shall constitute a separate and distinct violation of this subchapter and may
be punished accordingly.
(Ord. 32A, passed 6-5-1996)
§ 151.06 DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The County Building Inspector and/or his or her agent shall have the
following powers, duties and responsibilities within the town:
   (A)   To enter, at any reasonable time, and without prior notice, upon the
premises of any building where construction, remodeling or other structural
alteration is taking place, or upon any premises deemed to be unsafe, for
purposes of inspecting the same in accordance with the Uniform Building Code;
   (B)   To order all work to be stopped on the construction, remodeling or
structural alteration of any building, when such work is being done in
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter, and any applicable law
or regulation. Work shall not proceed on such premises, after the issuance of a
stop order, without the prior written consent of the County Building Inspector;
   (C)   To inspect all buildings being constructed, remodeled or structurally
altered, to determine compliance with all applicable building construction and
safety codes, and to enforce the provisions of the same; and
   (D)   To examine all applications for building permits, to determine their
compliance with applicable law, and to review the same.
(Ord. 32A, passed 6-5-1996)
§ 151.07 DISCRETION TO APPROVE OR REJECT.
   The County Building Inspector shall have the power to either approve or
reject a building permit application. If the application is rejected, the
reason for the rejection shall be specified, in writing, by the Building
Inspector. If the application is approved, the building permit may be issued
upon payment of the appropriate fee according to the authorized fee schedule
established by the county.
(Ord. 32A, passed 6-5-1996)
§ 151.08 NO MATERIAL VARIATION FROM PERMIT.
   No material variation from approved plans or the terms of the building
permit approved by the County Building Inspector shall be permitted without the
prior written consent of the County Building Inspector.
(Ord. 32A, passed 6-5-1996)
§ 151.09 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the County Building Inspector may
appeal such decision by filing with the Clerk of the town, a notice of appeal,
no later than ten days following the date of issuance of the decision which is
the subject of the appeal.
   (A)   The notice of appeal shall be in writing, and shall state with
specificity the reasons for the appeal. The Town Clerk shall then refer the
appeal to the appropriate body, either the Board of Adjustment, or if there is
no Board of Adjustment, to the Town Council for review. The appropriate
municipal body shall then hold a public hearing, not less than 30 days after
receipt of the notice of appeal.
   (B)   At the public hearing, the aggrieved person shall appear and show
cause why the decision of the Building Inspector was in error, and why said
decision should be reversed. The Building Inspector shall also appear to defend
his or her decision. The County Attorney may assist the Building Inspector at
the hearing. The hearing shall be informal, and the State Rules of Civil
Procedure and State Rules of Evidence shall not apply. The hearing shall be
recorded.
   (C)   At the hearing, the aggrieved person shall bear the burden of proof,
and unless the decision of the Building Inspector shall be found, by a
preponderance of the evidence, to be arbitrary, capricious or a clear abuse of
discretion, the decision of the Building Inspector shall be affirmed.
   (D)   If the aggrieved person wishes to appeal the decision of the Board of
Adjustment or Town Council, he or she may then appeal directly to the District
Court of the county.
(Ord. 32A, passed 6-5-1996)
§ 151.10 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM CODES.
   (A)   The most current edition of the Uniform Building Code, with the
exception of its suggested fee schedule, is hereby adopted and incorporated by
this reference.
   (B)   The most current edition of the Uniform Fire Code is hereby adopted
and incorporated by this reference.
   (C)   The most current edition of the National Electric Code is hereby
adopted and incorporated by this reference.
   (D)   The most current edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code is hereby
adopted and incorporated by this reference.
   (E)   The most current edition of the Model Energy Code is hereby adopted
and incorporated by this reference.
   (F)   The most current edition of the Uniform Mechanical Code is hereby
adopted and incorporated by this reference.
(Ord. 32A, passed 6-5-1996)
§ 151.11 TIME PERIODS IN WHICH LICENSEES MUST COMMENCE AND COMPLETE
CONSTRUCTION OF APPROVED BUILDING PROJECTS.
   (A)   Each person or entity that has obtained project approval from the town
for a building project governed by §§
151.01 through
151.10 must within 60 days after obtaining project approval apply for a
building permit for the project from the County Building Inspector.
   (B)   Each person or entity that has obtained project approval and a
building permit for building projects governed by §§
151.01 through
151.10 must commence construction of the project within 180 days after the date
of issuance of the building permit. Construction will be deemed to have
commenced when excavation and/or erection of building materials has commenced
at the location site of the project.
   (C)   Each person or entity that has obtained project approval and a
building permit for building projects governed by §§
151.01 through
151.10 must complete construction of the project within 18 months after the
date of issuance of the building permit. Construction will be deemed to have
been completed when an occupancy or use permit has been issued by the County
Building Inspector; or if the project is one for which occupancy or use permits
are not required, the project has passed final inspection by the County
Building Inspector.
   (D)   If any of the time periods established by this section expire without
timely compliance by the applicant with the requirements of this section, the
project approval previously issued by the town for the building project will be
automatically withdrawn, which will invalidate the building permit issued by
the county. In such case, all fees paid to obtain project approval will be
deemed forfeited and the applicant will be required to obtain project approval,
obtain a building permit and pay all applicable fees as if prior approval had
never been given. In such case, each applicant will also be required to comply
with all laws, ordinances, building and other codes applicable to the project,
including those that have become enforceable since the original project
approval was granted.
   (E)   The time limits established by this section may be extended by the
Town Council for good cause shown upon request by the applicant made prior to
the expiration of the applicable time limit.
   (F)   All building projects for which the town gave project approval prior
to enactment of this section and for which construction has commenced but is
uncompleted must be completed within 18 months of the effective date of this
section or project approval will be deemed to have terminated.
   (G)   All building permits issued prior to the enactment of this section
will be deemed to have terminated 90 days after the effective date of this
section unless construction has been started prior to that date.
(Ord. 32C, passed 1-7-2002)
LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY
§ 151.25 APPROVAL, ESTABLISHMENT AND ADOPTION.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby approves the organization of the corporation
to function on behalf of the town as a local building authority in accordance
with the provisions of the State Local Building Authority Act as the same now
exists or as it may be from time to time amended and in connection therewith
approves the proposed forms of articles of incorporation and by-laws of the
corporation substantially in the forms which were presented to and reviewed by
the Town Council and which are attached hereto as Exhibits “B” and “C,”
respectively.
   (B)   The members of the Town Council are authorized to execute the articles
of incorporation in substantially the form attached to the ordinance comprised
herein; that the Town Attorney shall cause such executed articles of
incorporation to be filed with the Department of Commerce of the state and that
the Mayor, Town Council, Town Clerk, Town Attorney and other officers of the
town are authorized and directed to take all necessary actions to cause the
organization of the corporation.
(Res. passed 2010-3, passed 8-5-2010)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Authority
   
152.004   Applicability
   
152.005   Is approval required for all subdivisions?
   
152.006   How are basic terms used here defined?
   
152.007   Fees, charges, and forms
   
152.008   Restrictions for solar and other energy devices
   
152.009   Appealing a land use authority’s decision
Concept Subdivision Plans
   
152.025   Concept subdivision plan required
   
152.026   Concept subdivision plan requirements
   
152.027   Consideration and effect of concept subdivision plan
   
152.028   Concept subdivision plan; not an application for subdivision approval
   
152.029   Subdivision recommendation prohibited at the meeting when concept
plan discussed
Preliminary Subdivision Application
   
152.040   Intent
   
152.041   Requirements for preliminary subdivision applications
   
152.042   Reserved
   
152.043   Zoning Administrator to determine a complete application
   
152.044   Lack of preliminary subdivision application information;
determination of incomplete application
   
152.045   Preliminary subdivision application approval procedures; Planning
Commission recommendation
   
152.046   Effect of preliminary subdivision approval and effective period
   
152.047   Site preparation work prohibited
Final Subdivision Application
   
152.060   Intent
   
152.061   Requirements for final subdivision applications
   
152.062   Common area parcels on a plat; no separate ownership; ownership
interest equally divided among other parcels on plat and included in
description of other parcels
   
152.063   Dedication of streets and other public places
   
152.064   Final plat engineering review fees
   
152.065   Zoning Administrator to determine a complete final subdivision
application
   
152.066   Lack of final subdivision application information; a determination of
an incomplete application
   
152.067   Final subdivision approval procedures
   
152.068   Nature and effective period of final subdivision approval
   
152.069   Reserved
Reserved
   
152.080   Reserved
Subdivision Construction
   
152.095   Construction of required subdivision improvements
   
152.096   Reserved
   
152.097   As-built drawings
   
152.098   Guarantees and escrow bond
   
152.099   Subdivision construction and improvement inspections
Vacating or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat or Street or Alley
   
152.115   How can I work with an adjoining owner to adjust the boundaries of
our parcels?
   
152.116   How can I work with an adjoining owner or owners to adjust the
boundaries of our subdivision lots by amending the recorded subdivision plat?
Noticing
   
152.130   Purpose
   
152.131   Notice required by the act for public hearings and public meetings to
consider the adoption or any modifications of this chapter; notice of final
action
   
152.132   Notice required by the act for public hearings and public meetings to
consider a preliminary subdivision application and notice of final action
   
152.133   Notice required by the act for public meetings to consider a final
subdivision application and notice of final action
Cluster Subdivisions; Optional Provision
   
152.145   Purpose
   
152.146   Authority
   
152.147   Cluster subdivisions allowed in certain zoning districts
   
152.148   Minimum open space
   
152.149   Cluster subdivision application and approval process
   
152.150   General requirements
   
152.151   Open space dedication, ownership and maintenance
   
152.152   Required improvements and guarantees
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Boulder Town
Subdivision Ordinance” and may be identified within this document as “the
ordinance,” “this chapter,” “Subdivision Ordinance” or “Land Use Ordinance.”
This chapter shall be considered and may be identified as a Boulder Town Land
Use Ordinance, as defined by the Act.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 100-1)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is established to promote the purposes of UCA Title 10 Chapter
9a, as amended (hereinafter the “Act”) and to provide for the orderly division
of lands within the corporate boundaries of the town, to avoid
incompatibilities in land use and to secure the provision and long-term
maintenance of necessary infrastructure and services in an efficient and
economical manner for existing and future residents.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 100-2)
§ 152.003 AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council (hereinafter the “Council”) adopts this chapter pursuant to
the Act and all other authorities and provisions of state and federal statutory
law, as applicable. This chapter constitutes a part of the Boulder Town Land
Use Ordinance, as authorized and identified by the Act. Upon its adoption by
the Council, this chapter shall amend Ord. 49, adopted March 5, 2003, such
ordinance Ord. 41, adopted September 11, 1998.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 100-3)
§ 152.004 APPLICABILITY.
   Upon its adoption by the Town Council, and effective July 1, 2008, this
chapter shall govern and apply to the subdivision of all lands lying within the
municipal boundaries of Boulder Town, Garfield County, Utah (hereinafter the
“town”).
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 100-4)
§ 152.005 IS APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR ALL SUBDIVISIONS?
   No person shall subdivide any land except in compliance with all applicable
requirements of this code, specifically including the requirements of this
chapter.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued for uses, buildings or any other
improvements on any lot or parcel that was created in violation of this code.
   (B)   The transfer or sale of any land located within a subdivision before
the plat of that subdivision has been approved and recorded as required by this
code is a violation of this code.
   (C)   Describing land that is offered for transfer or sale within a
subdivision, as that term is defined by this code, by metes and bounds or in
any other way, except by showing it on an approved and recorded plat is a
violation of this code.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 100-5; Ord. 2022-2, passed 6-2-2022)
§ 152.006 HOW ARE BASIC TERMS USED HERE DEFINED?
   (A)   In the administration of this code, all land, regardless of how it may
be described elsewhere, is regulated as a ‘lot,’ a ‘parcel,’ or a ‘right-of-
way.’
      A LOT is any area of land that is separately demarked on a recorded
subdivision plat, whether called a lot or not.
      A PARCEL is any other area of land. In the administration of this code,
there are no lots outside of recorded subdivisions, there are no parcels within
recorded subdivisions.
      RIGHTS-OF-WAY are separately owned, generally linear areas of land that
provide circulation, irrigation, or utility service to adjoining lots or
parcels.
   (B)   To distinguish them, it is understood that EASEMENTS may be recorded
on lots or parcels, or within rights-of-way, but that the recording of an
easement cannot constitute a lot line adjustment, parcel boundary adjustment,
or subdivision.
   (C)   A LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT occurs when the owners of adjoining lots within
a recorded subdivision agree to change lot lines or when the owner of a lot
line within a subdivision agrees with the owner of an adjoining parcel to
change boundaries between the lot and the parcel. A lot line adjustment cannot
create a new parcel or lot. It can be used to change the boundary between a
right-of-way and adjoining lots. For the regulation of lot line adjustments,
please see §
152.116.
   (D)   A PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT occurs when the owners agree to adjust
the boundary between adjoining parcels. A parcel boundary adjustment cannot
create a new parcel or lot. It can be used to change the boundary between a
right-of-way and a parcel. For the regulation of parcel boundary adjustments,
please see §
152.115.
   (E)   (1)   A PRIVATE DRIVEWAY is a roadway, recorded as an easement
appurtenant to the land serviced properties. The private driveway is maintained
by the landowners pursuant to a maintenance agreement. the maintenance
agreement shall be approved and enforced by the town.
      (2)   A private driveway may be created only by the recording of an
easement that is shown on the final subdivision plat. Private driveways are
included within the area of any lot they cross for the determination of lot
size.
   (F)   A PRIVATE STREET is a transportation and utility easement that
provides access to multiple lots and/or parcels. It meets town standards for
streets but is maintained by the landowners it serves pursuant to a maintenance
agreement that runs with the land and is approved and enforceable by the Town.
the area of private streets may be included within the area of any lot they
serve for the determination of lot size.
   (G)   A SUBDIVISION occurs when any land is divided, re-subdivided, or
proposed to be divided into two or more lots or other divisions of land for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development
either upon the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and
conditions. Subdivision includes the division of land whether by deed, metes
and bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument, regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of a
parcel or lot; and except as provided by §
152.006(F), divisions of land for residential and nonresidential uses,
including land used or to be used for commercial, agricultural, and industrial
purposes.
   (H)   SUBDIVISION does not include a bona fide division of agricultural land
for the purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a
contiguous parcel of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting
combined parcel nor the parcel remaining from the division or partition
violates this code or a parcel boundary adjustment as defined by §
152.006(C) of this code.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 6-2-2022; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
§ 152.007 FEES, CHARGES, AND FORMS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall, by resolution, establish all fees and charges
payable for the review of subdivision applications, including planning and
engineering review, and for the inspection of subdivision improvements.
   (B)   Such fees and charges may be amended from time to time by resolution
of the Town Council to cover the actual costs of subdivision review.
   (C)   All administrative documents, including application forms,
instructions, and educational materials needed for the administration of this
chapter shall be prepared and updated as necessary, by the Zoning
Administrator, with the advice of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 100-7; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
§ 152.008 RESTRICTIONS FOR SOLAR AND OTHER ENERGY DEVICES.
   As provided by the Act, the Commission may refuse to recommend, and the
Council may refuse to approve or renew any plat, subdivision plan or dedication
of any street or other ground, if deed restrictions, covenants or similar
binding agreements running with the land for the lots or parcels covered by the
plat or subdivision prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting reasonably sited
and designed solar collectors, clotheslines or other energy devices based on
renewable resources from being installed on buildings erected on lots or
parcels covered by the plat or subdivision.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 100-8)
§ 152.009 APPEALING A LAND USE AUTHORITY’S DECISION.
   The applicant, a board or officer of the town, or any person adversely
affected by the land use authority’s decision administering or interpreting
this chapter may, within the time period provided by the town’s Zoning
Ordinance, appeal that decision to the appeal authority, identified by the
town’s Zoning Ordinance, as may be applicable, by alleging that there is error
in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the land use
authority in the administration or interpretation of this chapter.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 100-13; Ord. 2022-2, passed 6-2-2022)
CONCEPT SUBDIVISION PLANS
§ 152.025 CONCEPT SUBDIVISION PLAN REQUIRED.
   To promote efficiency in the subdivision process and to create an
opportunity for an understanding of the town’s applicable subdivision
requirements, all applicants for subdivision approval, located within the town,
shall present a concept subdivision plan of the proposed subdivision to the
Planning Commission for initial review.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 200-1)
§ 152.026 CONCEPT SUBDIVISION PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   The concept subdivision plan is an informal discussion document only,
designed to allow the identification of application procedures, requirements
and standards, and other items that may be considered in the subdivision
approval processes once a complete subdivision application is received. To
achieve these objectives, no specific concept plan submission requirements are
identified. However, the applicant should provide, and the Planning Commission
may request, information necessary to identify all issues affecting the
proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 200-2)
§ 152.027 CONSIDERATION AND EFFECT OF CONCEPT SUBDIVISION PLAN.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall discuss the concept subdivision plan
with the applicant at a Planning Commission meeting.
   (B)   The Planning Commission and the applicant may review the procedure
anticipated for subdivision approval, application requirements, other
applicable town, county, state and federal requirements, and any other matters
deemed appropriate.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 200-3)
§ 152.028 CONCEPT SUBDIVISION PLAN; NOT AN APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION
APPROVAL.
   (A)   A concept subdivision plan shall not constitute an application for
subdivision approval and is in no way binding on the town or the applicant. Any
discussion before the Planning Commission, at the meeting when the concept plan
is discussed, shall not be considered any indication of subdivision approval or
disapproval, either actual or implied.
   (B)   An application for subdivision approval shall only be considered filed
with the town upon the submission of all information and materials as required
for a subdivision application, as contained herein.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 200-4)
§ 152.029 SUBDIVISION RECOMMENDATION PROHIBITED AT THE MEETING WHEN CONCEPT
PLAN DISCUSSED.
   The Boulder Town Planning Commission is hereby prohibited from rendering any
recommendation for any proposed subdivision at the same meeting when the
Concept Subdivision Plan for such proposed subdivision is discussed by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 200-5; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPLICATION
§ 152.040 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter that a decision on a preliminary
subdivision application be a discretionary action of the Town Council,
accompanied with findings of fact, following the receipt of a Planning
Commission recommendation. For the purposes of this subchapter, the procedures
and requirements for the consideration of preliminary subdivision applications
are provided to allow for the consideration of all items in relation to the
subdivision of land located within the town. The Planning Commission and Town
Council shall identify and address all items applicable to a preliminary
subdivision application prior to providing a recommendation, or deciding, a
preliminary subdivision application. It is the intent of this chapter that all
items applicable to a preliminary subdivision application be fully addressed by
the applicant, the town and other reviewing agencies prior to any action by the
Planning Commission or Town Council.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 400-1)
§ 152.041 REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS.
   All preliminary subdivision applications filed with the town are required to
provide the following information. The applicant may be required to provide
other information required by the Planning Commission or Town Council necessary
to evaluate the merits of the proposed subdivision.
   (A)   Application. Persons proposing to subdivide land must submit an
application for preliminary subdivision using the form provided by the Town
Clerk. Additionally, the preliminary subdivision application shall be
accompanied by:
      (1)   An application fee, established by the Town Council;
      (2)   A preliminary plat meeting the requirements of (B), below;
      (3)   Attachments required by within the application form including any
and all proposed improvements, a draft development agreement, which may include
a plan for the phased installation of those improvements; and
      (4)   Applications shall be legible and may include paper copies at the
Town's discretion.
   (B)   Preliminary Subdivision Plat. The preliminary plat must be prepared by
a professional land surveyor in accordance with the current edition of the Utah
Council of Land Surveyors Final Subdivision Plat Guidance Document/Model
Standard, adopted herein by reference, and the following Boulder Town code
sections including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Vicinity map clearly displaying the location of the proposed
subdivision relative to local landmarks;
      (2)   A map displaying all adjoining lots, parcels, easements;
      (3)   Show proposed building envelopes, if any;
      (4)   Provide a table showing the total area of the proposed subdivision,
the area of each proposed lot and right-of-way in square feet and acres, and
all calculations made in averaging lot sizes where that option is used;
      (5)   Provide a signature block for the signature of the Mayor to
indicate approval of the preliminary plat; and
      (6)   Show proposed lots or areas within lots that will be dedicated to
common use, affordable housing, or open space protection; including continuing
agricultural use.
      (7)   The signature block for owners must include all beneficiaries of
easements.
   (C)   Required subdivision site information. The following subdivision site
information is required:
      (1)   The identification of known natural features including, but not
limited to, jurisdictional wetlands as identified by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, areas of slope exceeding 30% grade, flood channels as identified by
a federal or state agency, all waterbodies and drainage ways and any other
natural features as required by the Planning Commission, or Town Council, for
the entire subdivision site, including the total acres in each;
      (2)   Existing site contours, at intervals of no greater than two feet,
unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission, overlaid with the
proposed subdivision layout plan;
      (3)   The location of any known human-made features on or contiguous to
the subdivision site, including existing platted lots, all utility easements,
power lines and power poles, bridges, culverts, drainage channels, road rights-
of-way and easements, field drains, irrigation canals and ditches;
      (4)   The location and dimensions of all existing buildings, fence lines
and property lines, overlaid with the proposed subdivision layout plan;
      (5)   The layout of proposed power lines including the source and
connection to the existing power supply;
      (6)   All existing and proposed roadway locations and dimensions, with
cross sections of all new roads, proposed to be dedicated to the town, showing
the grades of all proposed streets and roads and all proposed cuts and fills
exceeding three feet. The proposed radius of all centerline curves shall be
shown;
      (7)   The location and size of existing and proposed culinary water and
sewer lines and/or the location of all wells and springs, and the location of
all proposed absorption and drain fields, as required by the South West Utah
Public Health Department or the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, as
applicable, overlaid with the proposed subdivision layout plan;
      (8)   Proposed storm drainage system; and
      (9)   The location of all existing and proposed fire hydrants, including
the sizes of all existing and proposed water lines serving fire hydrants
   (D)   Title report. A title report for the property proposed to be
subdivided, provided by a title company directly to the town and including all
abstract pages within 30 days of the date of the preliminary subdivision
application.
   (E)   Tax clearance. A tax clearance from the County Treasurer indicating
that all taxes, interest and penalties owing for the subject property have been
paid.
   (F)   Property owner addresses. Addresses of all owners of record of real
property within 300 feet of the site proposed to be subdivided.
   (G)   Evidence of availability of necessary services. The following
information is required to be presented as part of the preliminary subdivision
application, necessary to establish the availability of basic services to the
proposed subdivision.
      (1)   Culinary water requirements.
         (a)   The South West Utah Public Health Department, or the state’s
Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable, identified herein as the
“Culinary Water Authority,” shall review and approve the feasibility of the
culinary water system and sources for the subject property.
         (b)   The Town shall review and approve the applicant's ability to
provide culinary water or water rights to each lot in the subdivision. The
preliminary plat shall not be approved without the applicant providing
assurances of culinary water to each subdivision lot in the form of:
            1.   A connection with the Boulder Farmstead Water Company
providing service sufficient for each lot in the subdivision; or
            2.   Underground water rights available to the applicant as shown
by, and on file with, the State Engineer's office sufficient in amount to
provide culinary water to each lot in the proposed subdivision from an approved
underground source.
         (c)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide
information and materials as required by South West Utah Public Health
Department, the State Department of Environmental Quality, State Engineer’s
Office and the town, all as determined by the town, necessary to review and
approve the feasibility, availability and assurances as required herein for
culinary water to each lot in the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   Wastewater requirements. The South West Utah Public Health
Department or the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable,
identified herein as the “Sanitary Sewer Authority,” shall review and approve
the feasibility of sanitary sewer services or onsite wastewater systems for the
subject property. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide
information and materials as required by the South West Utah Public Health
Department, or the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, necessary to
review and approve the feasibility of the sanitary sewer services or onsite
wastewater systems.
      (3)   Fire protection and suppression requirements. The town’s Fire
Authority shall review and make necessary recommendations, as determined
necessary by the Fire Authority for necessary fire protection and suppression
services for the subject property. It shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to provide information and materials as required by the town’s Fire
Authority necessary to review and make recommendations of the fire protection
and suppression facilities and services.
         (a)   All new subdivision lots shall be within 600 feet of a fire
hydrant connected to a water supply meeting applicable fire code requirements.
         (b)   The fire authority may increase the allowable distance in (3)(a)
from a hydrant to the lot line based on unbuildable sensitive lands and any
legally binding building restrictions indicated on the plat. The fire authority
may allow alternative fire-flow and storage where exceptions in nationally
recognized fire codes are applicable and as approved by a town approved
engineer. Economic hardship shall not be considered in determining fire
protection requirements in new subdivisions.
         (c)   The distance requirement in (3)(a) may be waived in the case of
subdivisions not requiring construction of new streets, served only by private
driveways or existing streets, and creating no more than one additional lot.
      (4)   Storm drainage system. As required by this division (G), all
preliminary subdivision applications shall identify plans for storm water
drainage. No ditch or canal shall be proposed for the use of storm water runoff
without the written approval of the applicable irrigation company, with a note
on the preliminary plat identifying a proposed and recordable drainage
easement.
   (H)   Subdivision roads and streets.
      (1)   The street layout and design shown on the proposed preliminary plat
shall provide safe access to all proposed lots via a public or private street.
Access may also be extended to a limited number of lots within the subdivision
or, where it historically has existed, to adjoining lots or parcels by private
driveways, but only as provided below.
      (2)   A professional engineer hired by the Town may review the proposed
street and driveway layout and design for compliance with these and other
applicable Town standards.
      (3)   If the proposed subdivision will have access to a State highway, a
copy of the application for the access permit required by the Utah Department
of Transportation (UDOT) shall be provided with the preliminary plat. Approval
of the final plat will be conditioned on approval of the access permit.
      (4)   The preliminary subdivision application shall include a proposed
permanent arrangement for the maintenance of all existing and proposed streets,
private or public, and for private driveways. The maintenance options that may
be proposed are:
         (a)   Dedication of a proposed street to the Town, making it a public
street, maintained by the Town; or
         (b)   Private streets on rights-of-way dedicated to public use, but
not accepted by the Town for maintenance. A proposed maintenance arrangement
for the private streets must accompany the application for preliminary
subdivision approval.
         (c)   The Town is not obliged to accept any street for maintenance. It
may require the use of private streets.
         (d)   Private driveways may be used to access no more than four lots
within a proposed subdivision. They may also be used to preserve historic
routes of access to adjoining lots or parcels, though platting a public or
private street for that purpose may be required if it is reasonably anticipated
that the existing lot or parcel being served may be subdivided in the future. A
proposed maintenance agreement for any private driveway/s must accompany the
application for preliminary subdivision approval.
         (e)   The maintenance arrangements required above must run with the
land and be enforceable by the Town. If approved, they must be recorded prior
to the Town's review and approval of the final plat. They may include a clause
rendering them inoperative if the final plat is not approved and recorded.
      (5)   Flag lots extending to an existing or proposed public or private
street will be permitted, and may be required, as an alternative to private
driveways. The "pole" of a flag lot must be at least 40 feet in width.
      (6)   Placeholder for new street standards.
   (I)   Special service district or special service area. If the proposed
subdivision is located within the boundaries of a special service district or a
special service area, a letter shall be provided, with the preliminary
subdivision application materials, from the governing board acknowledging the
proposed subdivision, which letter may identify any potential impacts resulting
from the proposed subdivision.
   (J)   Irrigation company. If the proposed subdivision is located within the
boundaries of an irrigation company a letter shall be provided, with the
preliminary subdivision application materials, from the governing board
acknowledging the proposed subdivision, which letter may identify any potential
impacts resulting from the proposed subdivision.
   (K)   Additional information and materials when necessary. When the Planning
Commission or Town Council deem necessary, the applicant may be required to
provide other information or letters of feasibility, conduct studies and
provide evidence indicating the suitability of the area for the proposed
subdivision, including, but not limited to, adequacy of public safety and fire
protection, ground water protection, plant cover maintenance, geologic or flood
hazard, erosion control, wildlife habitat and any other physical or
environmental matters.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 50, passed - -; Ord.
58, passed 5-8-2008, § 400-2; Ord. passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 2022-1, passed 6-2-
2022; Ord. 2022-4, passed 12-1-2022; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
§ 152.042 RESERVED.
§ 152.043 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR TO DETERMINE A COMPLETE APPLICATION.
   Prior to considering a preliminary subdivision application, the Zoning
Administrator shall determine and find that the preliminary subdivision
application is complete and contains all preliminary subdivision application
materials as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 400-4)
§ 152.044 LACK OF PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPLICATION INFORMATION;
DETERMINATION OF INCOMPLETE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The lack of any information required for a preliminary subdivision
application, as required by this chapter, shall be cause for the Zoning
Administrator to find the preliminary subdivision application incomplete.
   (B)   (1)   A Zoning Administrator determination of an incomplete
preliminary subdivision application shall prohibit the Planning Commission from
considering any material, items or other information related to the proposed
subdivision.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant, in writing, of
the required information lacking from the preliminary subdivision application.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall allow a minimum of 30 days, from the
date of notification of an incomplete preliminary subdivision application, for
the applicant to provide the required information to the Town Clerk.
      (4)   If the preliminary subdivision application remains incomplete after
a minimum of 30 days from date of notification, the Zoning Administrator shall
return the entire incomplete application to the applicant, accompanied by any
preliminary subdivision application fees paid.
   (C)   Any person(s) aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning Administrator of a
determination of application completeness may appeal the Zoning Administrator’s
decision to the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 400-5)
§ 152.045 PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPLICATION APPROVAL PROCEDURES; PLANNING
COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Following a determination of a complete preliminary subdivision
application by the Zoning Administrator, the preliminary subdivision
application shall be scheduled for a public hearing and consideration by the
Planning Commission.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall schedule the public hearing and
consider the preliminary subdivision application at a regular Planning
Commission meeting, with notice of the meeting being provided as required by
this chapter and providing necessary applicant notice as required by § 152.132
of this chapter.
   (B)   Information to be provided for consideration with the preliminary
subdivision application.
      (1)   The South West Utah Public Health Department or the state’s
Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable, shall present information
approving the feasibility of the culinary water system and sources for the
subject property, and the sanitary sewer services or onsite wastewater systems
for the subject property to the Planning Commission for review in considering
the preliminary subdivision application.
      (2)   The town’s Fire Authority shall present information recommending
necessary fire protection and suppression services and facilities to the
Planning Commission for review in considering the preliminary subdivision
application.
      (3)   An engineer approved by the town, the County Engineer, any affected
special service district, special service area or any affected irrigation
company may present information and materials to the Planning Commission for
review in considering the preliminary subdivision application.
   (C)   Planning Commission recommendation.
      (1)   Following consideration of the preliminary subdivision application,
and all information and materials presented, the Planning Commission may
recommend approval of the preliminary subdivision application as presented,
recommend approval of the preliminary subdivision application with conditions,
or recommend denial of the preliminary subdivision application. In support of
its recommendation, the Planning Commission must find that the proposed lot
layout is respectful of and compatible with the:
         (a)   Terrain, avoiding natural hazards while preserving agricultural
opportunities, riparian areas and wetlands, views, and other natural assets;
         (b)   Safe, adequate access to each lot; and
         (c)   Neighboring uses.
      (2)   The PC's recommendation may include lot size averaging as it is
authorized in Chapter 153 of this Code.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may also recommend onsite and offsite
improvements, facilities and amenities, the cost of which is provided 100% by
the applicant for subdivision approval, and determined necessary by the
Planning Commission to protect the health, safety and welfare of anticipated
residents of the subdivision, or the existing residents of the town, including,
but not limited to:
         (a)   Road and street improvements, including layout, design, grading
and surfacing;
         (b)   Flood control facilities;
         (c)   Culinary water facilities;
         (d)   Sanitary sewer facilities;
         (e)   Fire protection facilities, including fire hydrants and water
storage facilities;
         (f)   Storm drainage facilities;
         (g)   Park and open space areas and facilities;
         (h)   Irrigation facilities;
         (i)   Electrical power and telephone facilities; and
         (j)   Fencing and buffering treatments.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall transmit its recommendation to the
Town Council for consideration.
   (D)   Town Council consideration of preliminary subdivision application.
Following receipt of the Planning Commission’s recommendation, the Town Council
shall consider the Planning Commission’s recommendation, the preliminary
subdivision application materials and all other information, at a regular Town
Council meeting, with notice of the preliminary subdivision application agenda
item being provided as required by this chapter.
   (E)   Information to be provided for consideration with the preliminary
subdivision application.
      (1)   The South West Utah Public Health Department or the state’s
Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable, shall present information
approving the feasibility of the culinary water system and sources for the
subject property, and the sanitary sewer services or onsite wastewater systems
for the subject property to the Town Council for review in considering the
preliminary subdivision application.
      (2)   The town’s Fire Authority shall present information recommending
necessary fire protection and suppression services and facilities to the Town
Council for review in considering the preliminary subdivision application.
      (3)   An engineer approved by the town, the County Engineer, any affected
special service district, special service area or any affected irrigation
company may present information and materials to the Town Council for review in
considering the preliminary subdivision application.
   (F)   Town Council approval. Following consideration of the preliminary
subdivision application and all information and materials presented, the Town
Council shall approve the preliminary subdivision application as presented,
approve the preliminary subdivision application with conditions or deny the
preliminary subdivision application. The Town Council may require on-site and
off-site improvements, facilities and amenities, provided 100% by the applicant
for subdivision approval, and determined necessary by the Town Council to
protect the public health, safety and welfare of anticipated residents of the
subdivision, or the existing residents of the town, including, but not limited
to:
      (1)   Road and street improvements, including layout, design, grading and
surfacing;
      (2)   Flood control facilities;
      (3)   Culinary water facilities;
      (4)   Sanitary sewer facilities;
      (5)   Fire protection facilities, including fire hydrants and water
storage facilities;
      (6)   Storm drainage facilities;
      (7)   Park and open space areas and facilities;
      (8)   Irrigation facilities;
      (9)   Electrical power and telephone facilities; and
      (10)   Fencing and buffering treatments.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 400-6; Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024)
§ 152.046 EFFECT OF PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPROVAL AND EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   (A)   For subdivisions not providing any required improvements and
subdivisions creating only one lot.
      (1)   For subdivisions that will provide no required improvements and/or
create only one new lot, preliminary subdivision application approval by the
Town Council shall serve as final subdivision approval. Following approval of
the preliminary subdivision application, the preliminary subdivision plat shall
be revised, as required by the Town Council, and presented to the Town Clerk
for review. If it complies with all Town requirements for a final plat and all
conditions imposed by the Town Council, it may be recorded
      (2)   Approval by the Town Council shall not authorize the division,
transfer, sale, or development of land until the final subdivision plat has
been recorded.
      (3)   Approval of a preliminary subdivision application that includes no
required improvements and/or creates only one new lot shall be effective for a
period of one year from the date of approval by the Town Council.
      (4)   If a preliminary subdivision plat is not revised as required by the
Town Council and presented to the Town Clerk for review and recordation within
one year from the date of approval, the preliminary subdivision application
approval shall be void, and the applicant required to submit a new preliminary
subdivision application, subject to the then existing application and approval
requirements.
   (B)   For subdivisions providing required improvements or creating more than
one new lot.
      (1)   For subdivisions that are required to provide required
improvements, approval of the preliminary subdivision application by the Town
Council shall include approval and execution of a development agreement that
permits the applicant to proceed with the construction and installation of
improvements, either for the entire subdivision, or by phase.
      (2)   A final plat or, for phased subdivisions, plats shall be prepared
and submitted to the Town Clerk for review and recording upon completion,
inspection, and acceptance of the required improvements. No lot may be offered
for sale or transfer, sold or transferred, until the final plat is recorded.
      (3)   Each development agreement shall include provisions stating what
happens if improvements are not completed and/or a final plat is not recorded
as scheduled in that agreement. Renegotiation of the agreement may be allowed,
but failure to comply or to renegotiate in a timely manner (with 'timely' being
specifically defined) shall render the Town's approval of the subdivision void.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 400-7; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
§ 152.047 SITE PREPARATION WORK PROHIBITED.
   No excavation, grading or regrading preparatory to subdivision development
shall take place on any subdivision site, and no building permit shall be
issued by the Town, until a development agreement that includes approval of all
required improvements has been executed as provided by this chapter or, where
no improvements are required, a final subdivision plat has been approved and
recorded. This prohibition is not meant to prevent excavation, grading, or
regrading for agricultural practices or the routine maintenance of existing
structures and improvements.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 400-8; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION
§ 152.060 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter that the approval of a final
subdivision application be a ministerial action by the Town Council,
accompanied with findings of fact, and assuring compliance with all applicable
requirements of this chapter and any conditions imposed by the Town Council for
preliminary subdivision application approval.
   (B)   The Town Council shall consider the final subdivision application at a
regular Town Council meeting, with notice of the final subdivision application
agenda item being provided as required by this chapter and providing necessary
applicant notice as required by §
152.133 of this chapter.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 500-1)
§ 152.061 REQUIREMENTS FOR FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS.
   All final subdivision applications are required to provide the following
information.
   (A)   Application. A final subdivision application form, provided by Town
Clerk, completed and signed by the owner(s) as identified on the property
assessment rolls of the county, or authorized agent of the owner(s) of the
lands proposed to be subdivided. The final subdivision application shall be
accompanied by the final subdivision application fee, including a non-
refundable administrative processing fee, as established by resolution of the
Town Council.
   (B)   Final subdivision plat.
      (1)   A final subdivision plat, prepared by a professional land surveyor,
conforming to current surveying practice and in a form acceptable to the County
Recorder for recordation. The final subdivision plat presented to the Town
Clerk shall contain the information required by §
152.041(B) plus any revisions or additions required by the Town Council as a
condition of preliminary subdivision application approval.
      (2)   The final subdivision plat shall show the following:
         (a)   Notation of any self-imposed restrictions, including proposed
final restrictive covenants, signed by all owners of interest and bearing the
acknowledgment of a public notary, and all other restrictions as required by
the Town Council in accordance with this chapter;
         (b)   Endorsement on the final plat by every person having a security
interest in the subdivision property subordinating their liens to all
covenants, servitudes and easements imposed on the property;
         (c)   The location of all monuments erected, corners and other points
established in the field. The material of which the monuments, corners or other
points are made shall be noted. Bearings shall be shown to the nearest second;
lengths to the nearest hundredth foot; areas to the nearest hundredth acre;
         (d)   The owner’s certificate of dedication including a legal
description of the subdivision’s boundaries and the dedication of any public
ways or spaces. This certificate shall be signed, dated and notarized. The
owner’s certificate shall include a reference to any covenants that may be
declared and blanks where the County Recorder may enter the book and page
number of their recording; and
         (e)   Signature blocks prepared for the dated signatures, as required
by the town.
   (C)   Title report. If the final subdivision application is filed with the
Town Clerk after 180 days from the date the preliminary subdivision application
is approved by the Town Council, a title report, no older than 30 days, shall
be provided as part of the final subdivision application.
   (D)   Other final subdivision application information and materials. The
following information is required to be presented as part of the final
subdivision application:
      (1)   Establishment of any cash escrows and agreements, or proof of
fulfillment of all the conditions imposed on the preliminary plat approval to
be completed prior to final plat approval, and the payment of any engineering
inspection fees;
      (2)   Final design and construction drawings for all proposed or required
public improvements, prepared by a licensed engineer, including the profiles
and cross sections of all existing and proposed streets, and designed as
required by the town, all storm drainage and flood control facilities, the
elevations and location of fire hydrants, required culinary water facilities,
sanitary sewer facilities and all other provided and required public facilities
and improvements;
      (3)   Unless the town has entered into an agreement with the applicant to
proceed with an improvement completion assurance for all improvements pursuant
to §
152.098 of this chapter, the final plat shall not be approved, signed by the
town officials, nor recorded with the County Recorder’s office unless and until
all the conditions imposed upon the preliminary plat approval have been
completed, inspected and signed off by the Zoning Administrator, Town Engineer
and Council; and, in addition thereto, each lot in the subdivision has either:
         (a)   A proven connection to Boulder Farmstead Water Company through a
certificate dedicating a share in the company to each lot in the subdivision;
or
         (b)   One underground culinary water right for each lot in the
subdivision in an amount no less than one-half (0.5) acre foot as evidenced by
a separate “Special Warranty Deed - Water” from the applicant in recordable
form for each lot in the subdivision to be recorded concurrently with the final
plat in the office of the County Recorder.
      (4)   In no event and under no circumstances shall any lots in the
proposed subdivision be sold or offered for sale to the public until the
requirements of this division (D) have been met.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 500-1; Ord. passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
§ 152.062 COMMON AREA PARCELS ON A PLAT; NO SEPARATE OWNERSHIP; OWNERSHIP
INTEREST EQUALLY DIVIDED AMONG OTHER PARCELS ON PLAT AND INCLUDED IN
DESCRIPTION OF OTHER PARCELS.
   (A)   A parcel designated as common area on a plat recorded in compliance
with this chapter may not be separately owned or conveyed independent of the
other parcels created by the plat.
   (B)   The ownership interest in a parcel described in division (A) above
shall:
      (1)   For purposes of assessment, be divided equally among all parcels
created by the plat, unless a different division of interest for assessment
purposes is indicated on the plat or an accompanying recorded document; and
      (2)   Be considered to be included in the description of each instrument
describing a parcel on the plat by its identifying plat number, even if the
common area interest is not explicitly stated in the instrument.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 500-3)
§ 152.063 DEDICATION OF STREETS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Plats, when made, acknowledged, and recorded according to the
procedures specified in this chapter, and as determined necessary by the town,
operate as a dedication of all streets and other public places to the town for
the uses named or intended in those plats.
   (B)   The dedication established by this section does not impose liability
upon the town for streets and other public places that are dedicated in this
manner, but are unimproved.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 500-4)
§ 152.064 FINAL PLAT ENGINEERING REVIEW FEES.
   As the town does not employ a full-time professional engineer, the applicant
for final subdivision application approval shall pay all costs incurred by the
town for the provision of engineering services provided by a licensed engineer
and appointed by Town Council, acting as the Town Engineer, necessary to review
the final subdivision application materials, as required herein, for conformity
to the requirements of this chapter and accepted engineering standards and
practice.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 500-5)
§ 152.065 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR TO DETERMINE A COMPLETE FINAL SUBDIVISION
APPLICATION.
   Prior to the consideration of the final subdivision application by the Town
Council, the Zoning Administrator shall determine and find that the final
subdivision application is complete and contains all application materials as
required herein.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 500-6)
§ 152.066 LACK OF FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION INFORMATION; A DETERMINATION OF
AN INCOMPLETE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The lack of any information required for a final subdivision
application, as required by this chapter, shall be cause for the Zoning
Administrator to find the final subdivision application incomplete.
   (B)   A Zoning Administrator determination of an incomplete final
subdivision application shall prohibit the Town Council from considering any
material, items or other information related to the proposed subdivision. The
Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant, in writing, of the required
information lacking from the final subdivision application. The Zoning
Administrator shall allow a minimum of 30 days, from the date of notification
of an incomplete final subdivision application, for the applicant to provide
the required information to the Town Clerk. If the final subdivision
application remains incomplete after a minimum of 30 days from date of
notification, the Zoning Administrator shall return the entire incomplete
application to the applicant, accompanied by any final subdivision application
fees paid.
   (C)   Any person(s) aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning Administrator of a
determination of application completeness may appeal the Zoning Administrator’s
decision to the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 500-7)
§ 152.067 FINAL SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   The Town Council is identified and authorized as the approval authority for
final subdivision applications, assuring compliance with all applicable
requirements of this chapter. The Town Council may approve the final
subdivision application, approve the final subdivision application with
conditions or deny the final subdivision application, accompanied by findings
of fact.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 500-8)
§ 152.068 NATURE AND EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF FINAL SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   After a final subdivision application has been approved by the Town
Council, the final subdivision plat shall be revised as required and presented
to the Town Clerk for recording in the office of the County Recorder. After the
final subdivision plat has been recorded by the Town Clerk, the applicant may
apply for building permits consistent with the approved and recorded final
subdivision plat and the town’s requirements for a building permit.
   (B)   The approval of a final subdivision application shall be effective for
a period of one year from the date the final subdivision application is
approved by the Town Council, at the end of which time the final subdivision
plat shall have been presented to the Town Clerk and recorded in the office of
the County Recorder. If the approved final subdivision plat is not presented to
the Town Clerk for recording within the one-year period of date of approval the
final subdivision application approval shall be void, and the applicant shall
be required to submit a new preliminary subdivision application, subject to the
then existing preliminary subdivision application provisions of this chapter
and all other applicable town, state and federal requirements.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 500-9)
§ 152.069 RESERVED.
RESERVED
§ 152.080 RESERVED.
SUBDIVISION CONSTRUCTION
§ 152.095 CONSTRUCTION OF REQUIRED SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Subdivision improvements required by approval of the preliminary plat
shall be made in compliance with all Town requirements and an approved
development agreement before a final plat may be recorded and any lots offered
for sale.
   (B)   The construction or installation of required improvements and the
recording of final plats may be phased, if so provided by the approved
development agreement.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 700-1; Ord. passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
§ 152.096 RESERVED.
§ 152.097 AS-BUILT DRAWINGS.
   At the completion of subdivision construction (and prior to final escrow
release under §
152.095(A)(1) of this chapter, or recordation of the final plat under §
152.095(A)(2) of this chapter, as the case may be) the landowner shall deliver
to the engineer approved by the town two sets of “as-built” drawings. These
drawings shall show all approved changes made during construction and provide
physical ties for all water lines, valves, sewer lines, manholes and the like.
No escrow funds held by the town, nor final plat withheld pending completion of
all conditions and improvements, will be released or recorded until the as-
built drawings are received by the town.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 700-3; Ord. passed 7-11-2019)
§ 152.098 GUARANTEES AND ESCROW BOND.
   (A)   In the event that the Council permits the applicant to proceed under
this section, and based on a cost estimate submitted by the applicant’s
engineer, the engineer approved by the town will prepare the estimate for the
cash escrow revising the costs as required to match prevailing conditions for
the construction and installation of all required public improvements, and
including a 20% contingency fee. An escrow bond and public improvement
agreements bond payment, and inspection fees shall be submitted to an the
engineer approved by the town before the final subdivision plat is recorded by
the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The amounts stated in the bond estimate shall be considered individual
and separate with respect to releases by the Town Council, but each amount
shall be applicable to every other part in the event of the applicant’s failure
to perform one or more of the improvements to the satisfaction of by an
engineer approved by the town and Town Council. Notwithstanding the itemization
of type and cost of improvements, any sum available pursuant to the bond may be
used by the town, and not released to the applicant, for any other improvement
covered by the bond as well as the specified improvement.
   (C)   The Town Council shall have authority to release to the applicant any
funds held by the town. The Town Council shall not release, prior to final
acceptance, any amount(s) for each specified improvement in excess of 80%
thereof. Before the Town Council shall release more than 59% of such amount
related to any one or each separate improvement, the Town Council shall require
that the applicant to certify in writing that no material-man’s or mechanic’s
liens have been filed with respect to the required improvement(s).
   (D)   After final acceptance of any public improvements by the Town Council,
20% of the amount pertaining to the particular public improvement shall be held
for a minimum period of two years. The said 20% shall be held to guarantee the
materials and workmanship of the completed improvements.
   (E)   (1)   The Town Council shall have the power to require payment of all
amounts remaining in the bond, upon certification by an engineer approved by
the town that the applicant has failed to comply with an obligation to install
the required public improvements in a manner satisfactory to an engineer
approved by the town, or that the applicant is in default, whether the two-year
guarantee period has elapsed or not.
      (2)   Any such funds shall be segregated by the Town Clerk in a special
account and expended for the purposes set forth in the public improvements
contract entered into by the applicant.
      (3)   Should an emergency arise, the town may, after providing the
applicant with a 14-day notice period, complete the required improvement(s) and
be compensated from all bond amounts, plus 15%, to recover overhead and other
costs incurred by the town to complete the required improvements.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 700-4; Ord. passed 7-11-2019)
§ 152.099 SUBDIVISION CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator and the engineer approved by the town shall
inspect, or cause to be inspected, all public improvements and facilities,
including, but not limited to, all water supply and sewage disposal systems in
the course of construction, all streets and roads, all drainage and flood
control facilities, all fire hydrants and all other subdivision improvements
and facilities.
   (B)   Excavations for fire hydrants and water and sewer mains and laterals,
drainage and flood control facilities shall not be covered or backfilled until
such installations have been approved by an engineer approved by the town.
   (C)   If any such installation is covered before being inspected, it shall
be uncovered after notice to uncover has been issued to the responsible person
by an engineer approved by the town.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 700-5; Ord. passed 7-11-2019)
VACATING OR AMENDING A RECORDED SUBDIVISION PLAT OR STREET OR ALLEY
§ 152.115 HOW CAN I WORK WITH AN ADJOINING OWNER TO ADJUST THE BOUNDARIES OF
OUR PARCELS?
   Outside recorded subdivisions, adjoining property owners may agree to adjust
boundaries as provided by UCA § 10-9a-523. Parcel boundary adjustments are NOT
reviewed by the Town. You are advised to consult an attorney or a surveyor.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 6-2-2022)
§ 152.116 HOW CAN I WORK WITH AN ADJOINING OWNER OR OWNERS TO ADJUST THE
BOUNDARIES OF OUR SUBDIVISION LOTS BY AMENDING THE RECORDED SUBDIVISION PLAT?
   (A)   Is a public hearing required to amend a recorded subdivision plat?
Yes. The applicant must file the proposed amended plat, any accompanying
materials required to demonstrate compliance with this code, a mailing list of
all affected entities and adjoining landowners, and the required fee with the
Zoning Administrator at least 15 days before the regular Planning Commission at
which the hearing is requested.
   (B)   What is the procedure for reviewing a proposed amended plat when a
hearing is required?
      (1)   The Clerk of the Planning Commission will send notice that a plat
amendment has been proposed to all affected entities, all lot owners within the
subdivision, and all adjacent property owners who are not within the
subdivision at least 10 days before the Planning Commission meeting at which it
will be heard. This notice will give the date, time, and place of the Planning
Commission hearing and either include or explain how to access a copy of the
proposed plat and accompanying materials.
      (2)   The Planning Commission will employ its standard hearing procedure,
taking factual questions before taking formal statements, taking formal
statements, and then deliberating.
      (3)   If the Planning Commission finds that the proposed plat amendment
has no adverse impact on adjoining properties or public infrastructure,
including public ways, easements, and dedicated open spaces, and results in no
violation of this code, the Planning Commission shall approve it, imposing any
conditions it finds necessary to ensure compliance. If no conditions are
imposed, the proposed plat amendment may be signed by the Chair or Presiding
Chair at this time.
      (4)   If the Planning Commission finds that there will be adverse impacts
or a violation of this code, it shall deny the proposed plat amendment.
      (5)   If the approved amended plat must be revised to fulfill conditions
imposed by the Planning Commission, the revisions may be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator at any time within 180 days after its approval. The Zoning
Administrator will obtain the signature of the Chair or Acting Chair of the
Planning Commission. The approved plat amendment may then be recorded as
provided by state law,
      (6)   An approved plat amendment must be recorded as provided by state
law, within 365 days of its approval. No permit required by the Town may be
issued within the area covered by a plat amendment until that amendment has
been recorded.
   (C)   What must be shown on a proposed amended plat? It must:
      (1)   show the portion of the subdivision that is proposed to be amended
and how that portion fits into the entire subdivision;
      (2)   show both the original lot lines and the proposed changes in those
lot lines;
      (3)   show all public ways, easements (public and private), and dedicated
open spaces, specifically including all utility easements; and all other
information shown on the plat; Plats often show building envelopes and other
specific types of restrictions. It is impossible to enumerate the
possibilities, but they must all be carried over onto the amended plat.
      (4)   show all wells, watercourses, and irrigation works;
      (5)   have a name that clearly distinguishes it from the originally
recorded plat of the subdivision;
      (6)   bear the signatures of all landowners whose consent is required;
      (7)   have a space for a signature indicating Planning Commission
approval; and
      (8)   bear a signed surveyor’s certificate as required by state law.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 6-2-2022)
NOTICING
§ 152.130 PURPOSE.
   As required by the Act, the town is required to provide notice of all public
hearings and public meetings for adoption or modification of this chapter, and
at times when preliminary subdivision applications, final subdivision
applications, applications for amendment to a recorded subdivision or
application to vacate, alter or amend a street or alley are considered by the
Commission or Council. The notice requirements of the town for public hearings
and public meetings and required applicant notice regarding subdivision matters
are provided by this subchapter.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 900-1)
§ 152.131 NOTICE REQUIRED BY THE ACT FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS AND PUBLIC MEETINGS TO
CONSIDER THE ADOPTION OR ANY MODIFICATIONS OF THIS CHAPTER; NOTICE OF FINAL
ACTION.
   (A)   Public hearings. The Town Clerk, for public hearings before the
Council and the Planning Commission Secretary before the Commission, shall
provide notice of the public hearing to consider the adoption or any
modification of this chapter as follows:
      (1)   Notice of the date, time, and place of each public hearing, at
least ten calendar days before the public hearing, which notice shall be:
         (a)   Mailed to each "affected entity," as defined herein; and
         (b)   Posted in at least three public locations within the town or
posted on the official website of the town.
      (2)   Notify each applicant of the date, time and place of each public
hearing at least ten calendar days before the public hearing; and
      (3)   Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the
application at least three business days before the public hearing.
   (B)   Public meetings. The Town Clerk, for public meetings before the
Council and the Planning Commission Secretary before the Commission, shall
provide notice of the public meeting to consider the adoption or any
modification of this chapter as follows:
      (1)   Notice of the date, time and place of each public meeting, at least
24 hours before the public meeting, which notice shall be posted in at least
three public locations within the town, or posted on the official website of
the town;
      (2)   Notify each applicant of the date, time and place of each public
meeting, at least 24 hours before the public meeting; and
      (3)   Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the
application at least three business days before the public meeting.
   (C)   Notice of final action. The Town Clerk shall notify the applicant of
any final action taken by the Council for any application related to the
adoption of any modification of this chapter.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 900-2; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
§ 152.132 NOTICE REQUIRED BY THE ACT FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS AND PUBLIC MEETINGS TO
CONSIDER A PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND NOTICE OF FINAL ACTION.
   (A)   Public hearings. The Planning Commission Secretary, for public
hearings before the Commission, shall provide notice of the public hearing to
consider a preliminary subdivision application as follows:
      (1)   Notice of the date, time and place of the public hearing, at least
ten calendar days before the public hearing, which notice shall be:
         (a)   Mailed to each “affected entity,” as defined herein;
         (b)   Posted in at least three public locations within the town, or
posted on the official website of the town; and
         (c)   Sent by United States mail to all owners of record of real
property within 300 feet of the subject property proposed for preliminary
subdivision application approval.
      (2)   Notify each applicant of the date, time and place of each public
hearing, at least ten calendar days before the public hearing; and
      (3)   Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the
application at least three business days before the public hearing.
   (B)   Public meetings. The Town Clerk, for public meetings before the
Council and the Planning Commission Secretary before the Commission, shall
provide notice of the public meeting to consider a preliminary subdivision
application as follows: notice of the date, time and place of each public
meeting, at least 24 hours before the public meeting, which notice shall be:
      (1)   Posted in at least three public locations within the town, or
posted on the official website of the town;
      (2)   Notify each applicant of the date, time and place of each public
meeting, at least 24 hours before the public meeting; and
      (3)   Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the
application at least three business days before the public meeting.
   (C)   Notice of final action. The Town Clerk shall notify the applicant of
any final action taken by the Council for any preliminary subdivision
application.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 900-3; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
§ 152.133 NOTICE REQUIRED BY THE ACT FOR PUBLIC MEETINGS TO CONSIDER A FINAL
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND NOTICE OF FINAL ACTION.
   (A)   Public meetings. The Town Clerk for public meetings before the Council
shall provide notice of the public meeting to consider a final subdivision
application as follows:
      (1)   Notice of the date, time and place of each public meeting, at least
24 hours before the public meeting, which notice shall be posted in at least
three public locations within the town, or posted on the official website of
the town;
      (2)   Notify each applicant of the date, time and place of each public
meeting, at least 24 hours before the public meeting; and
      (3)   Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the
application at least three business days before the public meeting.
   (B)   Notice of final action. The Town Clerk shall notify the applicant of
any final action taken by the Council for any final subdivision application.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 900-4)
CLUSTER SUBDIVISIONS; OPTIONAL PROVISION
§ 152.145 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is provided as an alternative subdivision layout option to
encourage the preservation and protection of open space and scenic, historic
and sensitive lands located within the town. This subdivision layout option is
designed to promote efficiencies in the delivery of required infrastructure,
facilities and services in subdivision development. The cluster subdivision
also provides an opportunity to promote the desired goals and policies to
enhance the community character of the town.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 1000-1)
§ 152.146 AUTHORITY.
   Consistent with the other provisions of this chapter, the Town Council is
identified as the town’s land use authority to approve, approve with
subdivision requirements, or deny all subdivision applications proposed as a
cluster subdivision, following the receipt of a Planning Commission
recommendation.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 1000-2)
§ 152.147 CLUSTER SUBDIVISIONS ALLOWED IN CERTAIN ZONING DISTRICTS.
   A cluster subdivision may be allowed in the Town’s Greenbelt Multiple Use
Zoning District (GMU), Low Density Residential District (LDR), Medium Density
Residential District (MDR) and High Density Residential District (HDR), upon a
finding by the Town Council of compliance with all requirements of this chapter
and the town’s other land use ordinances.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 1000-3)
§ 152.148 MINIMUM OPEN SPACE.
   A cluster subdivision shall provide for a minimum of 50% of the total
acreage of the subdivision site as open space in accordance with the open space
standards, maintenance and dedication requirements provided by this subchapter.
As practicable, the open space lands within a cluster subdivision shall be
contiguous and shall provide connectivity to other open space areas.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 1000-4)
§ 152.149 CLUSTER SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS.
   A cluster subdivision application shall be made as a preliminary subdivision
application and a final subdivision application, and is subject to review
process and approval standards as provided by this chapter for a preliminary
and final subdivision application.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 1000-5)
§ 152.150 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot area. The number of residential lots allowed in a cluster
subdivision shall comply with and be consistent with the density requirements
of the zoning district in which the subdivision is located. In order to achieve
the effect of clustering and provide desirable open space, the minimum lot area
within a cluster subdivision may be smaller than the minimum size required in
the zoning district, as approved by the Town Council, except no lot shall be
less than 50% of the minimum lot size required by the zoning district, as
applicable.
   (B)   Lot width and frontage. The minimum lot width and minimum lot frontage
provided for each lot located within a cluster subdivision may be reduced from
the minimum lot width and frontage requirements of the zoning district, as
approved by the Town Council, except no lot width or lot frontage shall be less
than 50% of the minimum lot width or lot frontage required by the zoning
district, as applicable.
   (C)   Yard requirements. The minimum front yard, minimum side yard and
minimum rear yard requirements provided for each lot located within a cluster
subdivision may be reduced from the minimum front yard, minimum side yard and
minimum rear yard requirements of the zoning district, as approved by the Town
Council; except, no minimum front yard, minimum side yard or minimum rear yard
requirement shall be less than 50% of the minimum front yard, minimum side yard
or minimum rear yard required by the zoning district, as applicable.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 1000-6)
§ 152.151 OPEN SPACE DEDICATION, OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Open space preservation and protection. All open space areas provided
in a cluster subdivision shall be identified as a “lot” and shall be identified
as permanently restricted from any future development by a plat note,
conservation easement or other method of long-term protection and preservation
acceptable to the Town Council. Open space protection and preservation methods
shall be approved by the Town Council and recorded concurrent with the
recording of the final subdivision plat. All conservation easements shall
comply with the Utah Conservation Easement Act, as set forth in UCA §§ 57-18 et
seq., as amended.
   (B)   Ownership of open space. The ownership of any open space areas shall
be in a single ownership and may be owned and maintained by one of the
following entities: homeowners’ association, land trust, conservation
organization, governmental agency or private individual, as approved by the
Town Council.
   (C)   Maintenance of open space.
      (1)   The responsibility and cost of maintaining open space shall be
borne by the fee owner of the open space area unless otherwise agreed to by the
Town Council. All preliminary and final subdivision applications proposing a
cluster subdivision shall provide an open space ownership and maintenance plan
addressing the proposed ownership and permanent maintenance of the open space
area within the cluster subdivision. The open space ownership and maintenance
plan shall be approved by the Town Council prior to or concurrent with final
subdivision application approval by the Town Council.
      (2)   Any amendments to an approved open space ownership and maintenance
plan shall be approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 1000-7)
§ 152.152 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND GUARANTEES.
   All preliminary and final subdivision applications proposing a cluster
subdivision shall comply with all land use ordinances of the town, including
all on-site and off-site improvements and guarantee for the installation of
subdivision improvements.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 1000-8)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Town Zoning Administrator, Building Inspector, Engineer and
Attorney are hereby designated and authorized as responsible for the
enforcement of this chapter. Failure of the Zoning Administrator, Building
Inspector, Engineer or Attorney to enforce any provision or seek remedies to a
violation of this chapter shall not legalize any such violation.
      (2)   The town, or any adversely affected owner of real estate within the
town in which violations of this chapter occur or are about to occur may, in
addition to other remedies provided by law, institute:
         (a)   Injunctions, mandamus, abatement or any other appropriate
actions; or
         (b)   Proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove the unlawful
building, use or act. The town need only establish the violation to obtain the
injunction.
(Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008, § 100-9)
   (B)   Violation. A plat of a subdivision recorded without the approval of
the Town Council is void. No person shall subdivide any land located wholly or
in part in the town, except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
No person shall purchase, sell or exchange any proposed subdivision nor offer
for recording in the office of the County Recorder any deed conveying such
parcel of land, or any fee interest therein, unless such subdivision has been
created and approved by the town pursuant to, and in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008, § 100-10)
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person, organization, corporation or other entity that violates
any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and is
punishable by a fine, imprisonment or both, as determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is punishable
as a Class C misdemeanor upon conviction either:
         (a)   As a Class C misdemeanor; or
         (b)   By imposing the appropriate civil penalty adopted under the
authority of the Act.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-5-2003; Ord. 49A, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 58, passed 5-8-2008,
§ 100-11)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Authority
   
153.003   Declaration
   
153.004   Purpose
   
153.005   Applicability
   
153.006   Permits and licenses to conform to this chapter
   
153.007   Town imposed requirements and exactions on application approval
   
153.008   Effective date
   
153.009   Omissions not a waiver
   
153.010   Repealer and effect
   
153.011   Definitions
Interpretation of Requirements and Provisions
   
153.025   Interpretation
   
153.026   Administrative interpretations
   
153.027   Authority and rules for interpretation of zoning district boundaries
Land Use Authorities and Decision Making
   
153.040   Land use authorities provided
   
153.041   Boulder Town Council
   
153.042   Boulder Town Planning Commission
   
153.043   Board of Adjustment
   
153.044   Zoning Administrator
   
153.045   Support
   
153.046   Meetings and public hearings
   
153.047   Provision of administrative guidelines
   
153.048   Computation of time
   
153.049   Fractional numbers
   
153.050   Procedural irregularities
   
153.051   Determination of completeness of land use applications
   
153.052   Continuing validity of land use application approvals
   
153.053   Land use authority compliance with land use ordinances
   
153.054   Land use approvals required to comply with land use ordinance
   
153.055   Acquiring property
   
153.056   Exactions
Amendments to the Boulder Town General Plan and Zoning Ordinance
   
153.070   Amendments to town’s General Plan
   
153.071   Procedures for amending the town’s General Plan
   
153.072   Criteria for approval of General Plan amendments
   
153.073   Effect of General Plan amendment; consistency required
   
153.074   Amendments to chapter, including the zoning districts map
   
153.075   Procedures for amending this chapter and zoning districts map
amendments (rezones)
   
153.076   Criteria for approval of a zoning ordinance and/or zoning districts
map amendment
   
153.077   Effect of an amendment to chapter and zoning districts map
Development Applications and Procedures
   
153.090   Purpose
   
153.091   Applicability
   
153.092   Application forms
   
153.093   Development application procedures
   
153.094   Permits required
   
153.095   Development application; initiation
   
153.096   Determination of application completeness
   
153.097   Remedying application deficiencies
   
153.098   Payment of taxes and charges required
   
153.099   Scope of development approvals
   
153.100   Amendment to development permits
   
153.101   Reapplication following denial
   
153.102   Inspections
   
153.103   Fee for processing development applications
Establishment of Zoning Districts
   
153.115   Zoning by districts
   
153.116   Zoning districts purpose
   
153.117   Table of uses
   
153.118   Table of development standards
   
153.119   Lot size averaging
   
153.120   Off-street parking requirements
Permitted Uses; Review and Approval
   
153.135   Approval required
   
153.136   Application requirements
   
153.137   Review and approval procedures
Conditional Use Permits
   
153.150   Issuance
   
153.151   Applications, public hearing required; Planning Commission authorized
to render conditional use decisions
   
153.152   Site development plan requirements
   
153.153   [Reserved]
   
153.154   Approval or denial of a conditional use permit application by the
Planning Commission
   
153.155   Revocation or modification of a conditional use permit
   
153.156   Use of RV or mobile home for living purposes during period of
construction of permanent dwelling
Temporary Uses
   
153.170   Purpose
   
153.171   Applications; Zoning Administrator authorized to render temporary use
decisions
   
153.172   Allowed temporary uses
   
153.173   Exemptions
   
153.174   Conditions may be imposed
General and Supplementary Development Standards
   
153.185   Establishment of development standards
   
153.186   General requirements
   
153.187   Non-conforming lots prohibited
   
153.188   Sale or lease of required space prohibited
   
153.189   Reserved
   
153.190   Access required
   
153.191   Fences and walls
   
153.192   Exceptions to height limitations
   
153.193   Water and sewage requirements
   
153.194   Effect of official map
   
153.195   Noxious weeds
   
153.196   Site lighting
   
153.197   Supplementary requirements
   
153.198   Hazardous waste; purpose
   
153.199   Public uses and utilities
   
153.200   Reserved
   
153.201   Recreational type vehicle as a temporary dwelling
   
153.202   Signs
   
153.203   Accessory dwelling units
   
153.204   Residential short-term rentals
   
153.205   Wireless communication towers and facilities
Building Codes and Permits
   
153.215   Purpose
   
153.216   Building permit required
   
153.217   Building Code compliance
   
153.218   Issuance of building permits prior to completion and acceptance of
required improvements
   
153.219   Certificates of occupancy
   
153.220   Exemptions
   
153.221   Violations
Sensitive Lands, Hillside and Mesa Tops Protection Overlay District
   
153.235   Purpose and intent
   
153.236   Sensitive lands, hillside and mesa top areas
   
153.237   Development restrictions
   
153.238   Development requirements and restrictions
   
153.239   Application requirements
   
153.240   Required information
   
153.241   Bonding
Non-Conforming Uses, Non-Complying Structures and Other Non-Conformities
   
153.255   Purpose
   
153.256   Legal non-conforming uses or non-complying structures may be
continued
   
153.257   Authority
   
153.258   Initiation
   
153.259   Application requirements; determination of application completeness
required
   
153.260   Burden of proof with the property owner
   
153.261   Determination of existence of a legal non-conforming use, legal non-
complying structure or other legal non-conformity application requirements
   
153.262   Approval standards for a determination of the existence of a legal
non-conforming use, legal non-complying structure or other legal non-conformity
application by the BOA
   
153.263   Required findings for approval or denial of a determination of the
existence of a legal non-conforming use, legal non-complying structure or other
legal non- conformity application by the BOA
   
153.264   Effect of approval of an application for a determination of the
existence of a legal non-conforming use, legal non-complying structure or other
legal non-conformity
   
153.265   Requirements for non-conforming uses
   
153.266   Requirements for non-complying structures
   
153.267   Requirements for non-complying lots
   
153.268   Requirements for non-complying signs
   
153.269   Termination of a non-conforming use by the town permitted; reasonable
amortization period required
   
153.270   Termination of a non-conforming use due to abandonment
   
153.271   Determination of a legal non-conforming use, legal non-complying
structure, other legal non-conformity applications by the BOA to be on file
   
153.272   Revocation of a determination of a legal non-conforming use, legal
non-complying structure, other legal non-conformity applications
   
153.273   Appeal
Moving of Buildings
   
153.285   Purpose
   
153.286   Application required
   
153.287   Approval procedures
   
153.288   Permits and guarantees required
   
153.289   Certificate of occupancy
   
153.290   Restoration of old site
Variances
   
153.305   General
   
153.306   Use variance prohibited
   
153.307   Standards
   
153.308   Conditions
   
153.309   Effect of granting a variance
   
153.310   Time limitation
   
153.311   Application required
Enforcement
   
153.325   Enforcement; procedures and duties
   
153.326   Civil enforcement
   
153.327   Reconsideration/revocation of approvals, permits and licenses
   
153.328   Revocation procedures
Review of Constitutional Taking Issues
   
153.340   Policy considerations; purpose
   
153.341   Guidelines advisory
   
153.342   Review of final town decision; procedures
   
153.343   Reviewing guidelines
   
153.344   Results of review
Appeal Authorities and Procedures
   
153.355   Purpose
   
153.356   Appeal authorities
   
153.357   Maximum time allowed to file appeal
   
153.358   Requirements for an appeal
   
153.359   Condition precedent to judicial review, appeal authority duties
   
153.360   Application required
   
153.361   Meetings, records and action of an appeal authority
   
153.362   Due process
   
153.363   Burden of proof
   
153.364   Standard of review for appeals
   
153.365   Final decision
   
153.366   District Court review
Public Notice and Applicant Noticing Requirements
   
153.380   Purpose
   
153.381   Required notice of public hearings and public meetings to consider
general plan or general plan amendment applications
   
153.382   Required notice of public hearings and public meetings to consider
the adoption or any modifications of land use ordinances, including this
chapter, zoning districts map, other official maps and notice of final action
   
153.383   Required notice for other public hearings
   
153.384   Required notice for other public meetings
   
153.385   Notice challenge
Home Businesses
   
153.400   Home businesses
   
153.401   Home business standards review worksheet
Commercial Development Standards
   
153.415   Commercial development standards
   
153.416   Reserved
Campground and RV Parks
   
153.430   Additional standards for campgrounds, including RV parks
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the “Boulder Town
Zoning Ordinance”. The Boulder Town Zoning Ordinance may, in subsequent
chapters and sections, be referred to as “ordinance,” “the ordinance,” “this
chapter,” “Zoning Ordinance” or “Land Use Ordinance.”
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 101)
§ 153.002 AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council adopts this chapter pursuant to the Municipal Land Use,
Development and Management Act (hereinafter “the Act”), as provided at UCA §§
10-9a et seq., as amended, and all other authorities and provisions of Utah and
federal statutory and common law as applicable. This chapter constitutes a land
use ordinance of the town as authorized by the Act.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 102)
§ 153.003 DECLARATION.
   This chapter provides for the establishment of zoning districts, with
associated use requirements and development standards, for the guidance,
management and regulation of all land uses, buildings and structures and
related activities occurring within the municipal boundaries of Boulder Town,
Utah (hereinafter “the town”). This chapter is declared to be consistent with
and to meet the requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 103)
§ 153.004 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the goals and policies of
the Town General Plan and the other purposes as provided for by the Act. It is
the intent of this chapter to provide a means of ensuring predictability and
consistency in the use and development of lands located within the town.
   (B)   These purposes are met by:
      (1)   Providing for the implementation of the Town General Plan;
      (2)   Guiding growth and development in an orderly manner consistent with
the land use and environmental goals and policies of the town;
      (3)   Preserving the quiet rural and agricultural quality of life enjoyed
by residents and protecting farming and ranching as a lifestyle choice for
residents;
      (4)   Preserving the natural beauty and resources, including open space,
clean air and water;
      (5)   Providing opportunities for the establishment of appropriate
commercial activities to meet the needs of town residents and others;
      (6)   Preventing the overcrowding of land;
      (7)   Generally directing that the more intense development be located in
areas where services and facilities are available and sufficient to meet the
demands of the proposed development;
      (8)   Preventing damage and injury from disasters such as fire, flood,
geologic and seismic hazards and other dangers;
      (9)   Directing and managing the type, distribution and intensity of uses
and activity;
      (10)   Encouraging pride in the appearance and quality of the town and
providing necessary public facilities and amenities;
      (11)   Protecting all landowners from potential adverse impacts from
adjoining uses; and
      (12)   Securing economy and efficiency in the allocation and expenditure
of public funds.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 104)
§ 153.005 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Applications accepted by the town as complete for any land use
approval, permit or license required by the provisions of this chapter shall be
processed, reviewed and approved or denied, subject to the provisions of this
chapter and all other applicable ordinances of the town in effect at the time
the application is accepted as complete by the town, as required by §§
153.096 and
153.097 of this chapter.
   (B)   No building or structure shall be erected and no existing building or
structure shall be moved, altered or enlarged, nor shall any land, building,
structure or premises be used, designed or intended to be used for any purpose
or in any manner other than as allowed by this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands located within
the municipal boundaries of the town, as indicated on the Town Zoning Districts
Map, as attached to the ordinance codified herein, and incorporated herein by
reference, unless exempted by the provisions of this chapter, or other lawful
exemption.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
standards and requirements necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town and to achieve the purposes of this chapter
and the Act.
   (E)   This chapter shall not nullify any law, ordinance or agreements which
are more restrictive, but shall prevail notwithstanding such provisions which
are less restrictive.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 105)
§ 153.006 PERMITS AND LICENSES TO CONFORM TO THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   All land use authorities of the town with the authority to issue
approvals, permits or licenses required by this chapter shall require that such
approvals, permits, or licenses conform to the provisions of this chapter and
the town’s other land use ordinances, as may be applicable, and in effect when
a land use application is determined to be complete and all fees have been
paid, unless:
      (1)   The land use authority, on the record, finds that a compelling,
countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving the
application; or
      (2)   In the manner provided by this chapter and before the application
is submitted, the town has formally initiated proceedings to amend its land use
ordinances in a manner that would prohibit approval of the application as
submitted.
   (B)   The town shall process an application without regard to proceedings
initiated to amend the town’s land use ordinances if:
      (1)   One hundred and eighty calendar days have passed since the
proceedings were initiated; and
      (2)   The proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that prohibits
approval of the application, as submitted.
   (C)   If the land use application conforms fully to the requirements of this
chapter and the town’s other land use ordinances, including this chapter, the
land use application shall be approved.
   (D)   The town shall not impose on an applicant, or any holder of any
approval required by this chapter, any requirement that is not expressed:
      (1)   In the approval required by this chapter, or in documents on which
such approval is based; or
      (2)   In this chapter, or in the town’s other land use ordinances,
including Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   The town shall not withhold the issuance of a certificate of occupancy
because of an applicant’s failure to comply with a requirement that is not
expressed:
      (1)   In the building permit or in documents on which the building permit
is based; or
      (2)   In this chapter, or the town’s other land use ordinances, including
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   The town shall be bound by the terms and standards of this chapter and
the town’s other land use ordinances, as applicable, and shall comply with all
mandatory requirements and provisions of such ordinances.
   (G)   The town shall process and render a decision on each application
required by this chapter with reasonable diligence.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 106)
§ 153.007 TOWN IMPOSED REQUIREMENTS AND EXACTIONS ON APPLICATION APPROVAL.
   The town shall not impose any requirement(s) or exaction(s) on any approval
required by this chapter unless:
   (A)   An essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest
and each requirement or exaction; and
   (B)   Each requirement or exaction is roughly proportionate, in both nature
and extent, to the impact of the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 107)
§ 153.008 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect on 7-1-2008 following its adoption by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 108)
§ 153.009 OMISSIONS NOT A WAIVER.
   An omission to specify or enumerate in this chapter those provisions of
general law applicable to all Utah municipalities shall not be construed to be
a waiver of the benefits of any such provisions.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 109)
§ 153.010 REPEALER AND EFFECT.
   (A)   Upon its adoption by the Town Council, and upon its effective date,
this chapter shall amend the town’s zoning ordinance existing on the effective
date of this chapter and shall govern and apply to the use of all lands,
buildings, structures and activities located within the municipal boundaries of
the town.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall be construed to carry out the
purposes of this chapter and the purposes of the state enabling laws, including
the Act, and to avoid conflict with the laws of the United States of America,
the state or any other limitations imposed by law. If any chapter, section,
division, provision, sentence or clause of this chapter is declared
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such determination shall
not impair the validity of the remainder of this chapter, which shall remain in
effect.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 110)
§ 153.011 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON/ABANDONED. A use that has been discontinued for a minimum period of
one year or a building, structure, sign or other object that remains vacant or
unused for a minimum period of one year.
   ABANDONMENT. Any act that result in abandon.
   ABSOLUTE STANDARD. A standard adopted in §§ 15.400 et seq. or 1513.415 et
seq. with which a proposed home business or commercial development must comply
in order to receive a CUP.
   ACCESS. The provision of vehicular and/or pedestrian ingress and egress to a
lot, parcel, building or structure.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building detached from, but located on the
same lot as the principal use, the use of which is clearly incidental and
accessory to that of the principal use. An Accessory Building shall contain no
living facilities. External accessory dwellings are separately defined.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, COMMERCIAL. A dwelling unit for an employee of or
the owner that is on the same lot as a commercial use. It may be internal to a
commercial structure or external. It must be approved as part of the CUP for a
new commercial use or, where it is proposed to add an accessory dwelling to an
existing commercial use, approved via an amendment to the existing CUP.
Nonconforming commercial uses may not add an accessory dwelling.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, EXTERNAL. An accessory dwelling unit that is in a
separate structure, but on the same lot as the primary dwelling to which it is
accessory, and, when rented, is rented for 30 or more consecutive days. For the
purposes of this definition, an ADU may be attached to the primary dwelling via
a sidewalk and/or a breezeway, or through a garage, but must have a separate
entrance.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, GUEST. A dwelling unit in a residential zone, in
addition to the principal dwelling unit, that is used for family, invitees,
caretaking and otherwise which meets the criteria found in §
153.203 of this chapter.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, INTERNAL. An accessory dwelling unit created:
      (1)   Within a primary dwelling;
      (2)   Within the footprint of that primary dwelling at the time the
internal accessory dwelling unit is created; and
      (3)   For the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive
days or longer.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, RENTAL. A dwelling unit in a residential zone, in
addition to the principal dwelling unit, that is used as a rental for a term or
month to month tenancy pursuant to a CUP, and that meets the criteria found in
§
153.203 of this chapter.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use that is clearly subordinate and customarily incidental
to, and located on the same lot as the principal use to which it is accessory.
   ACT. The Municipal Land Use, Development and Management Act, as provided by
UCA Chapter 10-9a, as amended.
   ACTIVE OR VALID BUILDING PERMIT. A building permit that has not expired.
   ADJACENT. Meeting or touching at some point, or across a street, alley or
other public or private right-of-way.
   AFFECTED ENTITY. A county, municipality, independent special district under
UCA Title 17A, Chapter 2, Independent Special Districts, local district under
UCA Title 17B, Chapter 2, Local Districts, School District, Interlocal
Cooperation Entity established under UCA Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal
Cooperation Act, specified public utility or the Utah Department of
Transportation, if:
      (1)   The entity’s services or facilities are likely to require expansion
or significant modification because of an intended use of land;
      (2)   The entity has filed with the municipality a copy of the entity’s
general or long-range plan; or
      (3)   The entity has filed with the municipality a request for notice
during the same calendar year and before the municipality provides notice to an
affected entity in compliance with a requirement imposed under the Act.
   AGENT. The person with written authorization to represent a property owner.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure used solely in conjunction with
agriculture use, and not for human occupancy, and complying with the
requirements of UCA § 58-56-4, as amended. To qualify as an AGRICULTURAL
BUILDING, the structure must be located outside of a residential area, as
defined by UCA § 58-56-4(1), as amended.
   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS. Products intended for direct human or animal
consumption, such as vegetables, fruits, dairy products, eggs, grains, meat,
poultry, fish, honey, hay and wool.
   AGRICULTURE. The production, keeping or maintenance for sale of plants and
animals useful to man, including crops and products such as vegetables, fruit
trees, hay, sod, grain, honey, milk, cheese and any other agricultural or
horticultural products and their storage, the raising thereon of farm poultry
and farm livestock and animals, such as cattle, sheep, goats or animals of the
Bovinae family; all horses, mules or animals of the Equine family; all pigs,
swine or animals of the Suinae family; fur bearing animals, bees and ostriches,
rhea and emu; trees and forest products; wholesale fruits of all kinds,
including grapes, nuts and berries; wholesale vegetables; wholesale nursery,
floral, ornamental and greenhouse products; or lands devoted to a soil
conservation or forestry management program. AGRICULTURE does not include
concentrated animal feeding operations, as defined by the Administrative Rules
of the State of Utah, R317-8-3.5(5)(a) and (b), as amended, and subject to the
Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (UPDES).
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification in construction of a
building or structure.
   APPEAL AUTHORITY. The person, board, commission, agency or other body
designated by ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use
application or a variance.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land or the owner’s authorized representative.
   APPLICATION/LAND USE APPLICATION. A written request for an approval and
completed in a manner prescribed by this chapter for review and decision by a
land use authority.
   APPLICATION, COMPLETE. An application that includes all information
requested on the appropriate form and payment of all applicable fees.
   APPLICATION, INCOMPLETE. An application that lacks information requested on
the appropriate form or lacks the payment of all applicable fees.
   AS-BUILT PROFILE. A map or drawing which depicts a vertical section of a
road, street, curb, conduit or other physical feature as it has been actually
constructed.
   AUTOMOTIVE CARE. An establishment providing motor vehicle repair or
maintenance services. Typical uses include businesses engaged in the following
activities: electronic tune-ups; brake repairs (including drum turning); air
conditioning repairs; generator and starter repairs; tire repairs; front-end
alignments; battery recharging; lubrication; and sales, repair and installation
of minor parts and accessories, such as tires, batteries, windshield wipers,
hoses, windows and the like.
   AVERAGE LOT SIZE. The average of the sizes of lots within a subdivision.
This is calculated by dividing the total area of the parcel or lot being
divided by the total number of building lots proposed. Lots that are separately
demarked for common use or open space protection are not building lots, nor are
rights-of-way, public or private. Lot size averaging may be applied to a lot or
parcel only as it existed on the date lot size averaging was adopted into this
Code. While not all lots need to be created at the same time, the basis for lot
size averaging shall be the lot or parcel size that existed on the date this
definition was adopted.
   AVERAGE PERCENT OF SLOPE. An expression of rise or fall in elevation along a
line perpendicular to the contours of the land, connecting the highest point of
land to the lowest point of land within an area or within a lot. A vertical
rise of 100 feet between two points 100 feet apart, measured on a horizontal
plane, is a 100% slope.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building between floor and ceiling which is
partly below and partly above grade, located such that the vertical distance
from grade to floor below is more than the vertical distance from grade to
ceiling.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. A residential structure offering transient lodging
accommodations where meals may be provided. A BED AND BREAKFAST INN shall have
no more than five guest rooms and shall meet all applicable Health, Safety and
Building Codes.
   BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION. The clearing or grading of the land.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board of Adjustment of Boulder Town, Utah.
   BORROW PIT. An area used for excavating sand or fill material for transport
to another location. Considerations for approving a conditional use permit
should include, but are not limited to, the following general concerns: hours
of operation; noise levels; traffic issues; blowing soil or sand; wind speed
during operation; watering; restoration/revegetation; viewshed; and neighbor
comments. The permit will be issued for a period of one year, with conditions
reviewed annually. Any non-emergency, fee-based transfer of fill dirt from one
property to another owner’s property will be considered a commercial venture
and require appropriate business licensing.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided; except that, land which is considered sensitive land or that has
an average grade exceeding 15% shall not be considered BUILDABLE AREA unless it
is approved by conditional use permit for construction after study by a
geologist, soils engineer or sanitarian as required by the Planning Commission.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for
housing, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or property of any kind.
   BUILDING CODE. The International Building Code, as adopted by the town.
   BUILDING LOT. For the purposes of lot size averaging, a BUILDING LOT is any
lot that is not separately demarked for common use or open space protection and
which is, thus, available for any principal use permitted in the applicable
zoning district. Building lots must meet the applicable average and minimum lot
size established in the Table of Development Standards.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person responsible for performing building
inspections as required by the adopted Building Code and other applicable
codes.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the average finished grade
surface to the highest point of the building roof or coping.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located. In a residential zoning district, any dwelling
is deemed the PRINCIPAL BUILDING on the lot on which it is situated.
   CAMPGROUND. Any area of land upon which two or more campsites are located,
established, or maintained for short-term occupancy by a tent or recreational
vehicle for recreational or vacation purposes. Campgrounds may also include
detached cabins. Campgrounds are a commercial use.
   CARPORT. A private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the
purposes of this chapter, a CARPORT shall be subject to all the regulations
prescribed for a private garage.
   CEMETERY. A place designated for the burial or keeping of the remains of the
dead, whether human or animal, including crematories and mausoleums and meeting
all applicable local, state and federal requirements and regulations.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate issued by the town after final
inspection and upon a finding that the building, structure or development
complies with all provisions of the applicable ordinances, codes, permits,
requirements and approved plans.
   CHARTER SCHOOL. Includes:
      (1)   An operating charter school;
      (2)   A charter school applicant that has its application approved by a
chartering entity in accordance with UCA Title 53A, Chapter 1a, Part 5, the
Utah Charter Schools Act; and
      (3)   An entity who is working on behalf of a charter school or approved
charter applicant to develop or construct a charter school building.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Mayor of Boulder Town, Utah.
   CHURCH. A facility principally used for people to gather for public worship,
religious training or other religious activities. One dwelling for the housing
of the pastor or similar leader of the CHURCH and family will be considered as
incidental and a part of this use.
   COMMERCIAL. The generic term this chapter uses to refer to the conduct of
business, including, but not limited to, retail sales, the provision of
services, and industrial activities. By itself, this term tells one nothing
about which commercial uses are or are not permitted. Please refer to the table
of uses and standards established by §§ 153.115 et seq. Standards that apply to
“commercial” uses apply to all of them, except when a specific use is
specifically exempted. This term specifically encompasses more specific terms
that were used in this chapter prior to the 2021 amendments, including
automotive care, commercial sales and services, lodging, professional offices,
recreation facilities, restaurants, and veterinary clinics.
   COMMERCIAL SALES AND SERVICES. An activity involving the sale of goods and
services, including the sale of personal or household goods, for profit.
COMMERCIAL SALES AND SERVICES include tradesman’s shops and construction and
contractor services. No COMMERCIAL SALES AND SERVICES establishment shall
include or provide “drive-up” windows or “drive through” facilities.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Boulder Town, Utah.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. A parcel of land, an area of water, or a combination of
land and water within a site designed and intended primarily for the use or
enjoyment of residents, occupants and owners within that development.
   COMMUNITY MARKET. A community market provides a venue for local growers, and
food, craft and service artisans to display and sell items to the public.
   COMPATIBLE. Compatible does not mean identical or even nearly the same. That
two (2) things are compatible means that they are able to exist together
without conflict, that they are reconcilable.
   CONCRETE PLANT ASSOCIATED WITH AN EXISTING GRAVEL PIT. A facility, with
associated loading and unloading areas, materials, storage areas and equipment,
for the manufacture, transfer, storage and distribution of concrete and
concrete related products and located within the boundaries of a gravel pit.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use of land that, because of its unique characteristics
or potential impact on the town, surrounding neighbors or adjacent land uses,
may not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain
conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts; a
use of land for which a conditional use permit is required pursuant to this
chapter.
   CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING. A governmental action that results in a taking of
private property so that compensation to the owner of the property is required
by:
      (1)   Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States; or
      (2)   Utah Constitution Article I, § 22.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. The maps or drawings accompanying an application that
show the specific location and design specifications of improvements to be
installed in accordance with the requirements of approval.
   CONTIGUOUS. The touching or overlap of two or more use district boundaries
or property lines.
   COUNCIL. The duly elected Town Council of Boulder Town, Utah.
   COVERAGE, BUILDING. The percent of the total site area covered by buildings.
   CULINARY WATER AUTHORITY. The department, agency or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water
system and sources for the subject property.
   DAY CARE/PRESCHOOL CENTER. Any facility, at a nonresidential location,
operated by a person qualified by the state, which provides children with day
care and/or preschool instruction as a commercial business and complying with
all state standards and licensing.
   DAY TREATMENT FACILITY/PROGRAM. Specialized treatment for less than 24 hours
a day, for four or more persons who are unrelated to the owner or provider and
is established and operated as required by the standards and rules, as adopted
by the Utah State Department of Human Services, governing the licensure of DAY
TREATMENT PROGRAMS. A DAY TREATMENT FACILITY/ PROGRAM provides services to
individuals who have emotional, psychological, developmental, physical or
behavioral dysfunctions, impairments, or chemical dependencies. DAY TREATMENT
is provided in lieu of, or in coordination with, a more restrictive residential
or inpatient environment or service in accordance with UCA § 62A-2-101.5, as
amended.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or
placing of any solid or hazardous waste into or on any land or water so that
such waste or any constituent thereof may enter the environment, be emitted
into the air or discharged into any waters, including ground waters.
   DRIVEWAY. A private roadway, the use of which is limited to persons
residing, employed or otherwise using or visiting the parcel on which the
driveway is located.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used as the more or
less permanent residence or sleeping place of one or more persons, but not
including a tent, recreational coach, hotel, motel, hospital or nursing home.
   EASEMENT. The portion of a lot or lots reserved for present or future use by
a person or agency other than the legal owner(s) of said property(ies). The
EASEMENT may be for use under, on or above said lot or lots.
   ESSENTIAL FACILITIES. Utilities or sanitary and public safety facilities.
All proposed residential or commercial buildings or uses shall be connected to
an approved individual septic system.
   EXISTING GRAVEL PIT. An open excavation or pit from which gravel or other
stones or earthen materials have been obtained by digging, cutting, crushing or
blasting, and which existed prior to the adoption of the zoning ordinance, as a
legally authorized use.
   FACADE. Any portion of a building that faces or is visible from a public way
or from a parking lot. Includes walls and all apertures, also any visible
element of the roof.
   FACILITY. A structure or place that is built, installed or established to
serve a particular purpose.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single
housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a bed and breakfast,
guest ranch, hotel, motel or resort, as herein defined.
   FARMSTAND. Farmstands should be accessory to onsite agriculture operations.
The intent is to encourage the sale of locally grown fresh produce, not the
establishment of traditional retail stores or convenience markets in
agricultural and residential zones. Food sales at a FARM STAND must be limited
to the following:
      (1)   Produce and shell eggs; and
      (2)   Value added and farm products that were grown or produced in close
proximity to the farm stand.
   FIRE CODE. The fire codes currently adopted into the UCA §§ 15A-1-401 et
seq. or its successors.
   FLOOD HAZARD. A hazard to land or improvements due to inundation or overflow
water having sufficient velocity to transport or deposit debris, scour the
surface soil, dislodge or damage buildings, or erode the banks of watercourses.
   FLOOR AREA. Area included within surrounding walls of a building or portion
thereof exclusive of vents, shafts and courts.
   FRONTAGE. All property fronting on one side of the street, highway or
private road.
   FRONTAGE, BLOCK. All property fronting on one side of the street between
intersecting or intercepting streets, or between a street and a right-of-way,
waterway, end of dead-end street or political subdivision boundary measured
along the street line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary
of the frontage on the side of the street that it intercepts.
   GEOLOGIC HAZARD. A hazard inherent in the crust of the earth, or
artificially created, which is dangerous or potentially dangerous to life,
property or improvements due to the movement, failure or shifting of the earth.
   GOVERNING BODY. The elected legislative body of the town.
   GRADING. Any excavating, filling or combination thereof. GRADING is
regulated by the appendix chapter titled “Excavation and Grading” of the most
current edition of the International Building Code (IBC).
   GROUP CHILD CARE. The care of children who are family and non-family members
in an occupied dwelling, and complying with all state standards and licensing,
by the resident of that dwelling at least twice a week for more than three
children, but fewer than 17 children. The total number of children being cared
for shall include children under the age of four years residing in the
dwelling, who are under the supervision of the provider during the period of
time the childcare is provided. There shall be at least two care givers at all
times when there are nine or more children present.
   GUEST RANCH. A guest ranch is an accessory use that provides supplemental
income to a working ranch. A guest ranch may be established only in conjunction
with an existing, continuing livestock operation that qualifies as a farm use
under the Utah Farmland Assessment Act Standards of Practice. A guest ranch
includes overnight guest lodging units, recreational activities that are on-
site or originate on-site, and food services for guests only.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. As defined in the Utah Solid and Hazardous Waste
Rules, Utah Administrative Code R315.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. As defined in the Utah Solid and Hazardous Waste Rules,
Utah Administrative Code R315.
   HOME BUSINESS. An industrial or commercial activity that is conducted in a
dwelling or in an accessory structure that is appurtenant to a dwelling, and
that complies with the standards of §§
153.400 et seq.
   HOME CHILD CARE. Note that Utah State regulations provide the following
exemptions for child care: license or certificate and background check not
required. The following types of care do not require a child care license or
certificate form, or the submission of background check documents to the
Department: (a) care provided on no more than two days during any calendar
week; (b) care provided in the home of the provider for less than four (4)
hours per day, or for fewer than five(5) unrelated children in the home at one
time; (c) care provided in the home of the provider on a sporadic basis only.
   HOME OCCUPATION, MINOR. An activity carried out for gain by a resident and
conducted entirely within the resident’s home and/or a separate building of no
more than 750 square feet and is clearly incidental and accessory to the
residential use of the dwelling or property; and, provided that, the home
occupation does not change the residential character of the residence and does
not result in noise, vibration, light, odor, dust, smoke or other air pollution
noticeable at or beyond the property line, does not include any outside storage
of goods, materials or equipment, has no signage, complies with all required
federal and state licensing requirements, complies with all required local
licensing requirements.
   HOME PRESCHOOL. A preschool program complying with all state standards and
licensing for non-family members in an occupied dwelling, by residents of that
dwelling, in which lessons are provided for not more than six children for each
session of instruction. Sessions shall last for not more than four hours and
shall not overlap. Individual children may attend only one preschool session in
any 24-hour period.
   IDENTICAL PLANS. Building plans submitted to the town that are substantially
identical to building plans that were previously submitted to and reviewed and
approved by the Building Official and describe a building that is:
      (1)   Located on land zoned the same as the land on which the building
described in the previously approved plans is located; and
      (2)   Subject to the same geological and meteorological conditions and
the same law as the building described in the previously approved plans.
   ILLEGAL BUILDING/STRUCTURE. A building or structure, or portion thereof,
established without securing the necessary approvals, permits or licenses, as
required by this chapter, the adopted Building Code, or their prior enactments.
   ILLEGAL LOT. A lot created that has not received the necessary approvals,
permits or licenses, as required by the town’s land use ordinances.
   ILLEGAL USE. A use established without receiving the necessary approvals,
permits or licenses, as required by the town’s land use ordinances.
   IMPORTATION. The act or business of bringing in wastes, substances or
materials from a county, state or country outside the boundaries of the town.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Street grading, street surfacing and paving, water mains and
lines, water meters, fire hydrants, sanitary sewers, storm drainage facilities,
culverts, bridges, public utilities or other such installations designated by
the Planning Commission or Town Council.
   INDUSTRIAL. The generic term this chapter uses to refer to the processing,
manufacturing, assembly, and/or distribution of goods or products and/or the
collection and processing of wastes. By itself, this term tells one nothing
about which industrial uses are or are not permitted. Please refer to the table
of uses and standards established by §§
153.115 et seq. Standards that apply to “industrial” uses apply to all of them,
except when a specific use is specifically exempted. For the purposes of this
chapter, industrial uses are regulated as commercial uses. The raising of crops
or livestock is not industrial for the purposes of this chapter.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. A solid waste that contains or may be reasonably expected
to contain pathogens of sufficient virulence and quantity that exposure to the
waste by a susceptible host could result in an infectious disease.
   INHERENTLY WASTE-LIKE. Materials include those listed in 40 C.F.R. § 261.2
(c), UHWMR 450-2.1-1 and material that is ordinarily disposed of, burned or
incinerated or that contains toxic constituents which are not ordinarily found
in raw materials or products for which the materials substitute and are not
used or reused during the recycling process and which may pose a substantial
hazard to human health and the environment when recycled.
   INTENSITY. The concentration of activity such as combination of the number
of people, cars, visitors, customers, hours of operation, outdoor advertising,
numbers of buildings, numbers of livestock and the like.
   JUNK. Any old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
wood and rubber debris, waste or junked, dismantled, or wrecked automobiles, or
parts thereof, iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous
material.
   LANDSCAPING. Any combination of living plants such as trees, shrubs, plants,
ground cover or turf, and structural features such as walkways, fences,
benches, works of art, reflective pools, fountains, or the like. Landscaping
also includes irrigation systems, mulches, soil preparation and treatment,
revegetation, and or the preservation, protection and replacement of existing
vegetation. Landscaping may be irrigated, a xeriscape, or some combination of
both. See WATER WISE LANDSCAPING.
   LAND USE. The manner in which land is occupied or used.
   LAND USE APPLICATION. An application required by the town’s land use
ordinances, and required to initiate the review procedures for any required
approval.
   LAND USE APPROVAL. Any authorization received from a land use authority that
permits the commencement of a development activity.
   LAND USE AUTHORITY. A person, board, commission, agency or other body
designated by the Council to act on a land use application.
   LAND USE ORDINANCE. A planning, zoning, development or subdivision ordinance
of the town, including this chapter, but does not include the town’s General
Plan or any element thereof.
   LAND USE PERMIT. A permit issued by a land use authority.
   LEGAL BUILDING/STRUCTURE. A building or structure, or portion thereof,
established after receiving the necessary approvals, permits or licenses, as
required by the land use ordinances and complying with the requirements of the
land use ordinances and Building Code.
   LEGAL LOT OF RECORD. Any lot, parcel or tract of land that existed, as
recorded in the office of the Garfield County Recorder, with a separate
property identification number as provided by the office of the County Recorder
and office of the County Assessor, prior to the date of the adoption of the
first town subdivision ordinance, and all lots, parcels and tracts of land that
were legally created pursuant to the subdivision requirements of the town’s
land use ordinances and the laws of the state after the date of the adoption of
the first town subdivision ordinance.
   LEGAL USE. A use complying with the requirements of this chapter.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The duly elected Town Council of Boulder Town, Utah.
   LICENSED FAMILY CHILD CARE. The care of children who are non-family members
in an occupied dwelling. Utah State license required: a person or persons shall
be licensed under this rule if they provide child care: (a) in the home where
they reside; (b) in the absence of the child’s parent; (c) for five (5) to
sixteen (16) unrelated children; (d) for four (4) or more hours per day; (e) on
a regularly scheduled, ongoing basis; and (f) for direct or indirect
compensation.
   LIGHT MANUFACTURING. The assembly, fabrication or processing of goods and
materials using processes that ordinarily do not create noise, smoke, fumes,
odors, glare or health or safety hazards outside of the building or lot where
such assembly, fabrication or processing takes place, where such processes are
housed entirely within a building, or where the area occupied by outdoor
storage of goods and materials used in such processes does not exceed 25% of
the floor area of all buildings on the property. LIGHT MANUFACTURING generally
includes processing and fabrication of finished products, predominantly from
previously prepared materials and includes processes that do not require
extensive floor areas or land areas.
   LODGING. A building or group of buildings containing guest rooms, used or
intended wholly or in part for the accommodation of transients visitors.
Lodging places may also provide additional services, such as restaurants,
meeting rooms, entertainment, and recreational facilities. Bed and breakfast
inns and short term rentals are separately defined and regulated.
   LOT. A lot is any area of land that is separately demarked on a recorded
subdivision plat, whether called a lot or not.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on two intersecting or intercepting streets,
where the interior angle of intersection or interception does not exceed 135
degrees.
   LOT, COVERAGE. The percentage of the total area of a lot or parcel which is
occupied by all buildings, covered structures, or other impervious surfaces.
   LOT, DEPTH. For lots having front and rear lot lines which are parallel, the
shortest horizontal distance between such lines; for lots having front and rear
lot lines which are not parallel, the shortest horizontal distance between the
midpoint of the front lot line and the midpoint of the rear lot line; and for
triangular shaped lots, the shortest horizontal distance between the front lot
line and a line within the lot, parallel with and at a maximum distance from
the front lot line having a length of not less than ten feet.
   LOT, ILLEGAL. A lot that has not received the necessary approvals, permits
or licenses, as required by the town’s land use ordinances and state laws, or
their prior enactments.
   LOT, LEGAL. A lot that has received the necessary approvals, permits or
licenses, as required by the town’s land use ordinances, or their prior
enactments.
   LOT, LINE. Any line bounding a lot.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. A lot line adjustment occurs when the owners of
adjoining lots within a recorded subdivision agree to change lot lines or when
the owner of a lot within a subdivision agrees with the owner of an adjoining
parcel to change boundaries between the lot and the parcel. A LOT LINE
ADJUSTMENT cannot create a new parcel or lot. It can be used to change the
boundary between a right-of-way and adjoining lots. For the regulation of lot
line adjustments, please see §
152.116.
   LOT, NON-COMPLYING (LEGAL). A lot, parcel or tract of land that:
      (1)   Legally existed before its current zoning designation;
      (2)   Has been shown as a separate lot, parcel or tract continuously on
the records of the County Recorder as an independent parcel since the time the
zoning requirements governing the lot, parcel or tract changed; and
      (3)   Because of subsequent zoning changes does not now conform with the
requirements of the zoning district in which the lot, parcel or tract is
located.
   LOT, NON-COMPLYING (ILLEGAL). A lot, parcel or tract of land that:
      (1)   Was created without receiving the necessary approvals, permits or
licenses, as required by the town’s land use ordinances and state laws, and
their prior enactments; and
      (2)   Does not conform with the requirements of the zoning district in
which the lot, parcel or tract is located.
   LOT, OF RECORD. A lot that is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder; or a lot, parcel or tract
of land, the deed of which has been recorded in the office of the County
Recorder.
   LOT, RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land connecting a lot to a street for use as
private access to that lot.
   LOT, WIDTH. For rectangular lots, lots having side lot lines not parallel
and lots on the outside of the curve of a street, the distance between side lot
lines measured at the required minimum front yard line on a line parallel with
the street or long chord; and for lots on the inside of the curve of a street,
the distance between side lot lines measured 30 feet behind the required
minimum front yard line on a line parallel with the street or long chord.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which separates the lot from the
street; and in the case of the corner lot, the FRONT LOT LINE is the shorter of
the two lot lines separating the lot from the street; except that, where these
lot lines are equal or within 15 feet of being equal, either lot line may be
designated the FRONT LOT LINE, but not both.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is most distant from, and is, or
is most nearly, parallel with the front lot line; except that, in the absence
of a rear lot line as is the case of the triangular shaped lot, the REAR LOT
LINE may be considered as a line within the lot, parallel with and at a maximum
distance from the front lot line, having a length of not less than ten feet.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. The boundary of a lot that is not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
   LUDMA. The Municipal Land Use, Development and Management Act, as provided
by UCA Chapter 10-9a, as amended.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A transportable, factory-built housing unit constructed
on or after June 15, 1976, according to the Federal Home Construction and
Safety Standards Act of 1974 (HUD Code), in one or more sections, and when
erected on site, the home must be at least 20 feet in width at the narrowest
dimension, have exterior and roofing materials acceptable to the International
Building Code (IBC) and be located on a permanent foundation and connected to
the required utilities, including plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
electrical systems. A MANUFACTURED HOME shall be identified as real property on
the property assessment rolls of Garfield County. All manufactured homes
constructed on or after June 15, 1976, shall be identified by the
manufacturer’s data plate bearing the date the unit was manufactured and a HUD
label attached to the exterior of the home certifying the home was manufactured
to HUD standards.
   MINIMUM LOT SIZE. The smallest lot or parcel on which any principal use will
be permitted. §
153.199 of this Code allows the Town to approve smaller lots separately
demarked for open space protection or common use. Section
153.267 allows for exceptions for existing small lots.
   MOBILE FOOD BUSINESS. A “mobile food business” serves food and/or beverages
from a self-contained unit either motorized or in a trailer on wheels, and
conducts all or part of its operation on premises other than its own and is
readily movable, without disassembling, for transport to another location.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure in one or more sections with the
plumbing, heating, and electrical systems contained within the unit, which when
erected on a site, may be used with or without a permanent foundation as a
family dwelling. See UCA § 57-16-3.
   NATURAL WATERWAYS. Those areas varying in width along streams, creeks,
gullies, springs, faults or washes which are natural drainage channels as
determined by the Zoning Administrator, and in which areas no buildings shall
be constructed.
   NOMINAL FEE. A fee that reasonably reimburses the town only for time spent
and expenses incurred in:
      (1)   Verifying that building plans are identical plans; and
      (2)   Reviewing and approving those minor aspects of identical plans that
differ from the previously reviewed and approved building plans.
   NON-COMPLYING STRUCTURE. A structure that:
      (1)   Legally existed before its current land use designation; and
      (2)   Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does
not conform to the setback, height restrictions or other regulations, excluding
those regulations which govern the use of land.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use of land that:
      (1)   Legally existed before its current land use designation;
      (2)   Has been maintained continuously since the time the land use
ordinance governing the land changed; and
      (3)   Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does
not conform to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.
   NUISANCE. Any use or activity which emits noise, smoke, dust, odor or
vibration in amounts sufficient to substantially depreciate values of
surrounding buildings or lands or a use or activity which substantially
deprives the owners of adjoining property of a property right.
   OFFICIAL MAP. A map adopted by the Council and recorded in the County
Recorder’s office that:
      (1)   Shows actual and proposed rights-of-way, centerline alignments and
setbacks for highways and other transportation facilities;
      (2)   Provides a basis for restricting development in designated rights-
of-way or between designated setbacks to allow the government authorities time
to purchase or otherwise reserve the land; and
      (3)   Has been adopted as an element of the town’s General Plan.
   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP/ZONING DISTRICTS MAP. The map adopted by the Council
showing the geographic location of zoning districts.
   OPEN SPACE. Different, separate types dependent upon occupancy, use and
control. All types of OPEN SPACE are referred to collectively as OPEN SPACE in
this chapter. Any of these types of OPEN SPACE could be public or private open
space. They shall include the following.
      (1)   AGRICULTURAL OPEN SPACE. Open lands left undisturbed or dedicated
primarily as usable agricultural lands for farming and ranching purposes.
      (2)   LANDSCAPED OPEN SPACE. Landscaped areas free of building, parking
lots and driveways.
      (3)   NATURAL OPEN SPACE. Natural, undisturbed areas with little or no
improvements or irrigation.
      (4)   RECREATIONAL OPEN SPACE. Parks and areas of active recreation use,
to include trails and all uncovered recreational facilities.
   OPERATING HOURS. Operating hours include all hours a business is in
operation, not just those when it is open to the public.
   OUTPATIENT TREATMENT FACILITY/PROGRAM. Individual, family or group therapy
or counseling designed to improve and enhance social or psychological
functioning of those consumers whose physical or emotional status allows them
to continue functioning in their usual living environment in accordance with
UCA § 62A-2-101.15, as amended, and as required by the standards and rules, as
adopted by the Utah State Department of Human Services, governing the licensure
of OUTPATIENT TREATMENT PROGRAMS. An OUTPATIENT TREATMENT FACILITY/PROGRAM
shall serve consumers who require less structure than offered in day treatment
facility/program. Consumers are provided treatment as often as determined and
noted in the treatment plan.
   PARCEL. A parcel is any area of land that is not a lot. In the
administration of this Code, there are no lots outside of recorded
subdivisions, there are no parcels within recorded subdivisions.
   PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT. A parcel boundary adjustment occurs when the
owners agree to adjust the boundary between adjoining parcels. A parcel
boundary adjustment cannot create a new parcel or lot. It can be used to change
the boundary between a right-of-way and a parcel. For the regulation of parcel
boundary adjustments, please see §
152.115.
   PARKING LOT. An open area, other than a street, used for the parking of more
than four automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for
compensation or accommodation for clients or customers.
   PERMITTED USE. A use of land for which no conditional use permit is
required.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Boulder Town, Utah.
   PLAT. A map or other graphical representation of lands being laid out and
prepared in accordance with UCA §§ 10-9a-603, 17-23-17 or 57-8-13, as amended.
   PLAT, FINAL. A drawing prepared in accordance with the land use ordinances
showing the final design of a land division and complying with all standards
and requirements of best surveying practice and in a form required by the
County Recorder’s office for recordation.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A drawing prepared in accordance with the land use
ordinances showing the design of a proposed land division.
   PLOT PLAN. A plat of a lot, drawn to scale, showing its actual measurements,
the size and location of any existing buildings or buildings to be erected, the
location of the lot in relation to abutting streets and such other information
as may be required by the town’s Planning Commission.
   PRIMARY DWELLING. A single-family dwelling that:
      (1)   Is detached; and
      (2)   Is occupied as the primary residence of the owner of record.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary purpose or function for which a parcel is used.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICES. A building for the professions including, but not
limited to, government, physicians, dentists, lawyers, realtors, architects,
engineers, artists, musicians, designers, teachers, accountants and others who,
through training, are qualified to perform services of a professional nature
and where no storage or sale of merchandise exists.
   PROPOSED (FUTURE) LAND USE MAP. A map designed to show the acceptable or
anticipated change of land use.
   PUBLIC. That which is under the ownership or control of the United States
Government, Utah State or any subdivision thereof, Garfield County or Boulder
Town (or any departments or agencies thereof).
   PUBLIC HEARING. A hearing at which members of the public are provided a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any street dedications, installations of curb, gutter,
sidewalk, road base and asphalt, water, sewer and storm drainage facilities, or
other utility or service required to provide services to a lot, parcel,
building or structure.
   PUBLIC MEETING. A meeting that is required to be open to the public under
UCA Title 52, Chapter 4, the Open and Public Meetings Act.
   PUBLIC USES AND UTILITIES. A use operated exclusively by a public body or
quasi-public body, such use having the purpose of serving the public health,
safety or general welfare, and including recreational facilities,
administrative and service facilities, and public utilities, including water
and sewer facilities, gas and electricity facilities, recycling and waste
management, cable television facilities and telecommunications facilities, but
excluding prisons. Proposed public facilities, including significant changes in
or additions to existing facilities require a CUP.
   QUASI-PUBLIC USE. A use operated by a private non-profit, educational,
religious, recreational, charitable or philanthropic institution, such use
having the purpose primarily of serving the public, such as churches, private
schools and universities and similar uses.
   RECORD OF SURVEY MAP. A map of a survey of land prepared in accordance with
UCA § 17-2317, as amended.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR RV. A vehicular camping unit designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use that either
has its own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle.
Recreational vehicles include, but are not limited to, camping trailers, fifth
wheel trailers, motor homes, park trailers, travel trailers, and truck campers
that are in operating condition.
   RELATIVE STANDARD. A standard adopted in §§ 15.400 et seq. or
153.415 et seq. on which the performance of a proposed home business or
commercial development receives a point score as part of the Planning
Commission’s review of the application for a CUP. These standards are used to
encourage or discourage certain development practices that are not absolute
requirements, but part of the trade-offs that must be considered. A proposed
development must receive a score of zero or better on the relative standards in
order to obtain a CUP.
   RESIDENTIAL DAY CARE CERTIFICATE. The care for children who are family and
non-family members in an occupied dwelling, and complying with all State
standards and licensing. Utah State certificate required: a person or persons
shall be certified as a residential child care provider under this rule if they
provide child care: (a) in the home where they reside; (b) in the absence of
the child’s parent; (c) for five (5) to eight (8) unrelated children; (d) for
four (4) or more hours per day; (e) on a regularly scheduled, ongoing basis;
and (f) for direct or indirect compensation.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS. A facility as defined by UCA § 10-
9a-103, as amended.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY. A residential dwelling
(for four or more persons) as licensed by the Department of Human Services,
Division of Services for People with Disabilities. “Disability” means a
physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of a
person’s major life activities, including a person having a record of such
impairment or being regarded as having such impairment (UCA § 57-21-2(9)(a), as
amended). “Disability” does not include current illegal use of, or addiction
to, any federally controlled substance, as defined in § 102 of the Controlled
Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. § 802 (UCA § 57-21-2(9)(b), as amended). “Disability”
does not include placement in lieu of confinement, rehabilitation or treatment
in a correctional facility.
   RESIDENTIAL SHORT-TERM RENTALS (RSTR). Occupancy of a dwelling on a single-
family legal lot of record by a transient guest(s) renting the entirety of the
dwelling, or any portion thereof, for any period between one to twenty nine
(29) consecutive nights pursuant to a conditional use permit (CUP).
   RESTAURANT. An establishment where food and drink is prepared, served and
consumed within the building. RESTAURANT does not include uses that are
identified as take-out or drive-in restaurants; where food is served primarily
in paper, plastic or other disposable containers; where customers may  remove
such food or beverage products from the food service establishment for
consumption; and the establishment is required by contractual or other
arrangements to operate with standardized menus, ingredients, architecture,
decor, uniforms or similar standardized features.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Rights-of-Way are separately owned, generally linear areas of
land that provide circulation, irrigation, or utility service to adjoining lots
or parcels.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY (LOT). A strip of land not less than 16 feet in width
connecting a lot to a street for use as private access to that lot.
   ROAD. A public or private thoroughfare that affords a means of access to
abutting property.
   SANITARY SEWER AUTHORITY. The department, agency or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of sanitary sewer services
or onsite wastewater systems.
   SCHOOL. Any building or part thereof that is designed, constructed or used
for education or instruction by a public or private organization in any branch
of knowledge, but excluding preschool center.
   SETBACK. The required minimum distance between the building and the related
front, side or rear lot line.
   SIGN. Any device for visual communication, including any structure or
natural object or part thereof that is used for the purpose of bringing the
subject thereof to the attention of the public, but not including, any flag,
badge or insignia of any government or governmental agency, or any civic
charitable, religious, patriotic, fraternal or similar organization.
      (1)   A-FRAME SIGN. Any sign or structure composed of two sign faces
mounted or attached back-to-back in such a manner as to form a triangular
vertical cross-section.
      (2)   ALTERED. A sign that is raised, moved, extended or enlarged.
      (3)   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign which is designed and constructed to give
its message through movement or semblances of movement created through a
sequence of progressive changes of parts, lights or degree of lighting;
exhibits a string of lights for the purpose of attracting attention; or
contains flashing, blinking, moving or glaring illumination.
      (4)   BACK-LIGHTED SIGNS. Any sign that is illuminated by a light source
that emanates from behind the sign face.
      (5)   BILLBOARD. A structure designed, intended or used for advertising a
project, property, business, entertainment, service, amusement or the like and
not located on the premises where the matter advertised is available or occurs.
      (6)   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended to be used for the shelter
or enclosure of persons, animals or property.
      (7)   BUILDING FACE. The visible outer surface of a main exterior wall of
a building.
      (8)   BUILDING SIGN. A sign attached or painted on the exterior walls of
a building.
      (9)   CANOPY or MARQUEE. Any roofed structure attached to and supported
by a building and projecting out from the building wall.
      (10)   CO-LOCATED DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign, located at a directional sign
location and provided to allow the for directional information for business
located within the town, which does not exceed five feet in length by 16 inches
in width and where the total area of all co-located directional signs does not
exceed 36 square feet at one directional sign location.
      (11)   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign, not exceeding 36 square feet, and
provided to allow directional information for business located within the town.
      (12)   DIRECTIONAL SIGN LOCATION. A location provided for the
establishment of directional signs and limited to the corners of the
intersection of Highway 12 and the Burr Trail. The total area of all
directional signs allowed at each corner shall not exceed 36 square feet.
      (13)   DIRECTORY SIGN. A sign erected on a building wall at the ground
floor level and containing name identification for more than one activity or
business located on a single premises.
      (14)   DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. A free-standing sign with two identical,
opposing sign faces shall count as one free-standing sign.
      (15)   ERECT. To build, construct, place, relocate, enlarge,
substantially alter, attach, suspend, paint, post or display. Normal
maintenance, including refinishing, is not included in this definition provided
the sign copy is not changed or altered.
      (16)   FREE-STANDING SIGN. Any sign that is standing on or erected into
the ground. Such signs are usually supported from the ground by one or more
posts or similar uprights with or without braces.
      (17)   ILLEGAL SIGN. Any sign which does not conform to the requirements
of this chapter and was constructed or installed without the necessary
approvals, permits or licenses required by this chapter or prior enactments.
      (18)   LEGAL SIGN. A sign that conforms to the requirements of this
chapter and has received all necessary approvals, permits or licenses, as
required by this chapter, or prior enactments.
      (19)   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign which advertises products, services or
business establishments which are not located, conducted, manufactured or sold
upon the same premises upon which the sign is erected.
      (20)   ON-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign which advertises products, services or
business establishments which are located, conducted, manufactured or sold upon
the same premises upon which the sign is erected.
      (21)   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING STRUCTURE. A structure erected and maintained
for outdoor advertising purposes upon which a poster, bill, printing or
painting may be placed to advertise products, goods, services or business
establishments for those located, conducted, manufactured or sold upon the
premises on which the structure is erected.
      (22)   PARAPET SIGN. A sign located on any extension of the walls of the
building above the connection of the roof structure to the building walls.
      (23)   PERSON. Includes a firm, association, organization, partnership,
trust company or corporation, as well as individual, but does not include a
governmental unit.
      (24)   PREMISES. The parcel of property on which the business is located.
      (25)   PROJECTING SIGN. An outdoor sign which is attached to a building
or structural wall at an angle.
      (26)   PROPERTY. Land or real estate, with or without structures; not
goods or services.
      (27)   PUBLIC WAY or PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any way designed for vehicular
or pedestrian use and maintained with public funds.
      (28)   ROOF SIGN. Any sign which is erected upon or over the roof or over
a parapet of any building or structure.
      (29)   SIGN. A sign is an object, device or structure or part thereof
situated outdoors or displayed in a window visible from a public way, free
standing or attached, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or
attract attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business,
product, service, event or location by any means, including words, letters,
figures, designs, symbols, advertising flags, fixtures, colors, illuminations
or projected images.
      (30)   SIGN AREA. The area which encompasses the sign face, including
copy, insignia, background and borders.
      (31)   SIGN FACE. The surface of a sign visible from the public way. Each
SIGN FACE counts as one sign. Exception: see DOUBLE-FACED SIGN.
      (32)   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign or advertising display intended to be
displayed for a maximum period of 120 days.
      (33)   VISIBLE. Capable of being seen without visual aid by a person of
normal visual acuity.
      (34)   WALL SIGN. Any sign posted, painted upon or otherwise affixed to a
wall, fascia, canopy or marquee.
      (35)   WIND SIGN. Any propeller, whirligig, pennant, flag, banner or
similar commercial device which is designed to flutter, rotate or display other
movement under the influence of wind.
      (36)   WINDOW SIGN. A sign fastened to, or painted on the window of a
building or structure in such a manner that the window becomes the supporting
structure for, or forms the background surface of, the sign.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building arranged or designed to be used for and
containing one dwelling unit. An internal accessory dwelling unit may be
included as part of any single-family dwelling, in accord with state law and
all applicable requirements of this chapter.
   SITE PLAN. A plan required by and providing the information required by this
chapter.
   SLOPE. The level of inclination of land from the horizontal determined by
dividing the horizontal run of the slope into the vertical rise of the same
slope and converting the resulting figure into a percentage value. For purposes
of regulation and measurement, SLOPES must cover at least 25 feet vertically
and 50 feet horizontally.
   SOLID WASTE.
      (1)   As per UCA § 19-6-102(16), any garbage, refuse, sludge, including
sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air
pollution control facility, or other discarded material, including solid,
liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial,
commercial, mining or agricultural operations and from community activities,
but does not include solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage or in
irrigation return flows or discharges for which a permit is required under UCA
Title 19, Chapter 5, Water Quality Act, or under the Water Pollution Control
Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. A SOLID WASTE is considered a hazardous waste if
it is listed as hazardous or if it exhibits any one of the hazardous
characteristics set forth hereafter. “Hazardous waste” (as per  UCA § 19-6-102
(9)) means a solid waste or combination of solid wastes which, because of its
quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may
cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in
serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness or may pose a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when
improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
      (2)   SOLID WASTE does not include any of the following wastes unless the
waste causes a public nuisance or public health hazard or is otherwise
determined to be a hazardous waste:
         (a)   Certain large volume wastes, such as inert construction debris
used as fill material;
         (b)   Drilling muds, produced waters and other wastes associated with
the exploration, development or production of oil, gas or geothermal energy;
         (c)   Fly ash waste, bottom ash waste, slag waste and flue gas
emission control waste generated primarily from the combustion of coal or other
fossil fuels;
         (d)   Solid wastes from the extraction, beneficiation and processing
of ores and minerals; or
         (e)   Cement kiln dust.
   SPECIAL DISTRICT. An entity established under the authority of UCA Title
17A, Special Districts, as amended, and any other governmental or quasi-
governmental entity that is not a county, municipality, school district or unit
of the state.
   SPECIAL EVENTS. An event advertised to the general public and established
for a maximum period of seven consecutive days per event, and limited to six
such events per property or applicant, per calendar year. SPECIAL EVENTS may
include, but are not limited to: non-profit fund-raising activities conducted
by a registered non-profit organization; organized events such as educational,
historic, religious, and patriotic displays or exhibits; concerts; athletic or
recreational events; festivals; street fairs; arts and crafts fairs.
   SPECIFIED PUBLIC UTILITY. An electrical corporation, gas corporation or
telephone corporation, as those terms are defined in UCA § 54-2-1, as amended.
   STORAGE. The actual or intended containment of solid or hazardous waste
either on a temporary basis or for a period of years in such a manner as not to
constitute disposal of such waste.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or, if there be
no floor above it, then the space between the surface of such floor and the
ceiling or roof above it.
   STORY, HALF. A partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which on at
least two opposite exterior walls do not extend more than four feet above the
floor of such story, and the ceiling area of which does not exceed two-thirds
of the floor area of the same HALF STORY.
   STREET LINE. The boundary which separates the right-of-way of a street from
the abutting property.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
rebuilding of the roof or exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having location on the ground, but not
including tents, vehicles, travel trailers or mobile homes.
   SUBDIVISION. Any land that is divided, re-subdivided or proposed to be
divided into two or more lots, plots, parcels, sites, units or other division
of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease or
development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions. SUBDIVISION includes the division or development of land
whether by deed, metes and bounds description, devise and testacy, lease, map,
plat, or other recorded instrument. SUBDIVISION does not include a bona fide
division of agricultural land for the purpose of joining one of the resulting
separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of unsubdivided agricultural land, if
neither the resulting combined parcel nor the parcel remaining from the
division or partition violates this code or a parcel boundary adjustment as
defined by §
152.006(C) of this code.
   SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION. A change that significantly alters the impacts
and/or character of a structure, development or use.
   TEMPORARY USE - LONG-TERM. A use established for a maximum period of one
hundred twenty (120) days, such use being discontinued after the expiration of
one hundred twenty (120) days. Long term temporary uses may include: temporary
signs, farm or produce stands; temporary commercial sales such as Christmas
tree lots; farmer’s markets; construction offices; materials and/or equipment
storage; seasonal activities such as corn mazes and pumpkin patches. Other
long-term temporary uses will be allowed if approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
   TOWN ATTORNEY. An attorney admitted to practice law in the state and so
appointed by the Council.
   TOWN ENGINEER. A registered civil engineer so appointed by the Council.
   TREATMENT. A method, technique or process designed to change the physical,
chemical or biological character or composition of any solid or hazardous waste
so as to neutralize such waste or so as to render such waste non-hazardous,
safer for transport, amenable for recovery, amenable to storage or reduced in
volume.
   USE. The purpose or purposes for which land or a building is occupied,
maintained, arranged, designed or intended.
   VARIANCE. Permission from the Board of Adjustment to depart from the
development requirements of this chapter including setbacks, side yards and
frontage requirements and if such permission is not granted would render the
property unusable.
   WATER WISE LANDSCAPING. A landscaping plan developed especially for arid and
semiarid climates utilizing water-conserving techniques, such as the use of
drought-tolerant plants, mulch, and efficient irrigation, that reduces the need
for supplemental irrigation. “Xeriscape” is a form of Water Wise Landscaping.
Plants, trees, and shrubs that are appropriate to the local climate are used,
and care is taken to avoid losing water to evaporation and run-off. A Water
Wise Landscape is a mix of plantings and other landscaping materials with at
least fifty percent (50%) of the landscaped area containing plants, trees, and
shrubs. The use of mulch coverings, organic or stone, without fifty percent
(50%) plantings does not constitute a Water Wise Landscape.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT. Any equipment used to provide wireless
telecommunication service, but which is not affixed to or contained within a
wireless telecommunication service facility, but is instead affixed to or
mounted on an existing building or structure that is used for some other
purpose.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY. Any freestanding facility, building,
pole, tower or structure used to provide only wireless telecommunication
services, and which consists of, without limitation, antennae, equipment and
storage and other accessory structures used to provide wireless
telecommunication services.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. Services providing for the transmission
of wireless communications utilizing frequencies authorized by the Federal
Communications Commission for paging systems, enhanced specialized wireless
telecommunication, personal communication services or cellular telephone.
   YARD. The open space at grade level between a building and the adjoining lot
lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the
ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. In measuring a
YARD for the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a
front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the minimum horizontal distance between
the lot line and the principal building is to be used; however, on any lot
wherein a setback line has been established by the regulations of this chapter
for any street abutting the lot, such measurement is to be taken from the
principal building to the setback line.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front width of a lot and being the
minimum horizontal distance between the street line and the principal building
or any projection thereof, other than steps, unenclosed balconies and
unenclosed porches. The FRONT YARD of a corner lot is the yard adjacent to the
designated front lot line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending between the side yards of a lot or between the
side lot lines in the absence of side yards, and being the minimum horizontal
distance between the rear lot line and the rear
of the principal building or any projection thereof, other than steps,
unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches. On corner lots and interior lots,
the REAR YARD is in all cases at the opposite end of the lot from the front
yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the side lot and extending from
the front yard to the rear lot line as defined or along the full depth in
absence of front and rear yards and being the minimum horizontal distance
between a side lot line and the side of the principal building or any
projection thereof, other than steps, unenclosed balconies or unenclosed
porches. An INTERIOR SIDE YARD is defined as the side yard adjacent to a common
lot line.
   ZONING DISTRICT. Any portion of the incorporated area of the town in which
the same zoning regulations apply.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 20; Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021; Ord. 2021-5, passed 11-4-2021; Ord.
2021-7, passed 12-2-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024)
INTERPRETATION OF REQUIREMENTS AND PROVISIONS
§ 153.025 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Liberally construed in favor of the town; and
      (2)   Deemed neither to limit or repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (B)   The following rules shall be observed in the application and
interpretation of the provisions of this chapter, except where the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      (1)   The word “shall” or “must” are mandatory. The words “should” and
“may” are permissive.
      (2)   Words used or defined in one tense or form shall include other
tenses or derivative forms.
      (3)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural; words used in
the plural shall include the singular.
      (4)   Words referencing a gender shall extend and be applied to the other
gender and shall be considered gender neutral.
      (5)   In the event of a conflict between the text of this chapter and any
illustrations, captions, figures or other material, the text of this chapter
shall control.
      (6)   The word “includes” shall not limit a term to the specified
examples, but is intended to provide guidance.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 201)
§ 153.026 ADMINISTRATIVE INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. To promote day-to-day efficiencies in the administration and
implementation of this chapter, and where ambiguity, conflicting provisions or
confusion may exist in any standard or requirement of this chapter, this
section is provided to allow the Zoning Administrator to make interpretations
of this chapter, on an as-required basis, guided by the purposes of this
chapter and the Act, applied to the specific circumstance.
   (B)   Authority. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter.
   (C)   Initiation. Any person may request an administrative interpretation of
a standard or requirement of this chapter by presenting an application for an
administrative interpretation.
   (D)   Procedure. An application for an administrative interpretation shall
be considered and processed as follows:
      (1)   A complete administrative interpretation application shall be
submitted to the Town Clerk;
      (2)   After the application is determined complete by the Town Clerk, the
Zoning Administrator shall review the application and shall make an
interpretation in accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter; and
      (3)   After making a decision, the Zoning Administrator shall provide
written notice of the administrative interpretation to the applicant. A record
of the administrative interpretation of the Zoning Administrator shall be
maintained in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (E)   Standards for making administrative interpretations. The Zoning
Administrator shall apply the following standards in making an administrative
interpretation.
      (1)   The administrative interpretation shall not have the effect of
adding or removing any standard or requirement of this chapter.
      (2)   An administrative interpretation shall be consistent with the
purposes of this chapter and the Act and any previously rendered administrative
interpretations, based on similar facts.
      (3)   An administrative interpretation concerning a use interpretation
shall not allow the establishment of a use that is substantially different from
an allowed use or is a prohibited use in the zoning district.
      (4)   No use interpretation shall permit the establishment of any use
that would be inconsistent with the purposes of the zoning district in which it
would be located.
   (F)   Effect of interpretation. An administrative interpretation shall apply
only to the property for which an interpretation is given. A use interpretation
finding a use to be an allowed use shall not authorize the establishment of
such use, but merely authorizes the filing of the land use application
necessary for any approvals, permits or licenses, as may be required by this
chapter.
   (G)   Appeal. Any person adversely affected by an administrative
interpretation rendered by the Zoning Administrator may appeal the decision to
the town’s Planning Commission, as provided herein.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 202)
§ 153.027 AUTHORITY AND RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Authority. In the event of the need to determine the boundary of a
zoning district, the Zoning Administrator shall have the authority and
jurisdiction to render a written determination of the boundary of a zoning
district.
   (B)   Initiation. Any person may request an interpretation of a zoning
district boundary by presenting an application for an interpretation of a
zoning district boundary.
   (C)   Procedure. An application for an interpretation of a zoning district
boundary shall be considered and processed as follows.
      (1)   A complete interpretation of a zoning district boundary application
shall be submitted to the Town Clerk.
      (2)   After an application is determined to be complete by the Town
Clerk, the Zoning Administrator shall review the application and make an
interpretation in accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter.
      (3)   After making a decision, the Zoning Administrator shall provide
written notice of the boundary interpretation to the applicant. A record of the
zoning district boundary interpretation of the Zoning Administrator shall be
maintained in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (D)   Standards for making zoning district boundary administrative
interpretations. The Zoning Administrator shall apply the following standards
in making an interpretation of a zoning district boundary:
      (1)   The standards and requirements applying to such zoning district;
      (2)   In areas divided into lots, a zoning district boundary shall follow
the boundary of a lot, unless clearly intended to divide a lot for reasons of
topography, land form or other physical constraints;
      (3)   In areas not subdivided into lots, wherever a zoning district is
indicated as a strip adjacent to and paralleling a right-of-way, the depth of
such strips shall be in accordance with dimensions measured at right angles
from the centerline of the right-of-way, and the length of frontage shall be in
accordance with dimensions measured from section, quarter section or division
lines, or centerlines of rights-of-way, unless otherwise indicated;
      (4)   Where a zoning district boundary follows a natural or human-made
feature, such boundary shall be deemed to be the centerline of such natural or
human-made feature; and
      (5)   Where a zoning district boundary follows the right-of-way of any
road, street, trail or other public or private right-of-way or easement, such
boundary shall be deemed to be the centerline of such road, street, trail or
other public or private right-of-way or easement.
   (E)   Effect of interpretation. A zoning district boundary interpretation
shall apply only to the property for which an interpretation is given. A zoning
district boundary interpretation shall not authorize the establishment of any
use, but merely authorizes the filing of the land use application necessary for
any approvals, permits or licenses, as may be required by this chapter.
   (F)   Appeal. Any person adversely affected by a zoning district boundary
interpretation rendered by the Zoning Administrator may appeal the decision to
the town’s Planning Commission, as provided herein.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 203)
LAND USE AUTHORITIES AND DECISION MAKING
§ 153.040 LAND USE AUTHORITIES PROVIDED.
   The land use authorities identified by this chapter shall have
responsibilities for administering this chapter and all other land use
ordinances, as allowed by the Act and as provided herein.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 301)
§ 153.041 BOULDER TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   Powers and duties. For purposes of this chapter, the Town Council
(hereinafter “Council”) shall:
      (1)   Adopt the Town General Plan, all elements thereof, and all
amendments thereto;
      (2)   Adopt all town land use ordinances, including this chapter, all
provisions and requirements thereof and all amendments thereto;
      (3)   Direct the Town Planning Commission to prepare the General Plan,
any proposed plan element, any amendments thereto, and to submit such proposed
plan, element or amendments to the Council;
      (4)   Direct the Town Planning Commission to prepare all land use
ordinances, including this chapter, zoning districts maps, official maps and
all amendments thereto, and to submit such land use ordinances and maps, or
amendments thereto, to the Council;
      (5)   Act as an appeals authority, as provided by herein;
      (6)   Render, or appoint a designee to render, a determination when an
applicant asserts a deprivation of property rights, or has been subject to a
taking of property without just compensation, or has asserted some other
constitutional invalidity, as provided herein;
      (7)   Establish a fee schedule for all approvals, permits and licenses
required by the town’s land use ordinances, including this chapter; and
      (8)   Take such other action(s) as authorized by this chapter or the Act
and not expressly delegated to another land use authority.
   (B)   Effective date of decisions. All decisions of the Council made under
the authority of this chapter shall take effect on the date of the meeting when
the decision is made, unless a different date is designated in the rules of the
Council, or a different date is designated by the Council at the time the
decision is made.
   (C)   Council meeting minutes. The approved minutes of Council meetings,
attested to by a majority vote of the Council, shall constitute the official
record of such meetings, and shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk.
All such records shall be available for public review and access in accordance
with the laws of the state.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 302)
§ 153.042 BOULDER TOWN PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Town Planning Commission (hereinafter “Commission”) was heretofore
created and established pursuant to the Act, or prior enactments thereof.
   (A)   Powers and duties. The Commission shall be an advisory body to the
Council on legislative matters, including the General Plan and land use
ordinances. The Commission shall:
      (1)   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, the General Plan, all elements
thereof, and all amendments thereto, and to submit such plan, elements or
amendments to the Council;
      (2)   Prepare or cause to be prepared all land use ordinances, including
this chapter, all standards, and requirements thereof, and all amendments
thereto, and to submit such ordinances, standards, requirements, and all
amendments to the Council;
      (3)   Prepare or cause to be prepared all official maps, all standards
and requirements thereof, and all amendments thereto, and to submit such maps,
standards, requirements and all amendments to the Council;
      (4)   Review and recommend approval or denial of all General Plan
amendment applications and all land use ordinance amendment applications to the
Council;
      (5)   Review and approve, approve with conditions or deny all conditional
use applications;
      (6)   Review and recommend approval, approval with requirements or denial
of all subdivision applications to the Council, as authorized by
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances;
      (7)   Review and recommend approval, approval with requirements or denial
of all petitions for annexation to the Council;
      (8)   Review and recommend approval, approval with requirements or denial
of all applications to establish an agricultural protection area;
      (9)   Act as an appeals authority, as provided herein;
      (10)   Adopt bylaws, policies and procedures for the conduct of the
duties and meetings of the Commission, for the consideration of applications,
and for any other purposes deemed necessary by the Commission, if such bylaws,
policies and procedures are approved by the Council before taking effect; and
      (11)   Advise the Council on other matters, as the Council may direct.
   (B)   Qualifications for membership. Members of the Planning Commission
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Council.
   (C)   Membership; appointment, removal, terms and vacancies.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall be composed of five regular members,
and one alternate member, appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent
of the Council.
      (2)   The Council, after finding cause, may remove any member of the
Commission for a violation of this chapter or any policies or procedures
adopted by the Commission following receipt of a written complaint filed
against the member. The Council shall provide the member with a hearing, if
requested.
      (3)   Members of the Commission may be compensated on a per diem basis,
based upon meetings actually attended and reasonable and necessary expenses, as
determined by the Council.
      (4)   All members of the Commission, including the alternate member,
shall serve a term of five years. No member shall serve more than two
consecutive full terms. If any member begins serving his or her term and then
resigns, or is unable to complete his or her term, a replacement shall be
appointed. The service of a replacement member during the remainder of an
unexpired term shall not constitute a full term. Consequently, a replacement
member may serve the remainder of a former member’s term and then be eligible
to also serve two consecutive full terms, if so appointed.
      (5)   At an annual organizational meeting to be held the first regular
meeting in January, and at other times as required, the members of the
Commission shall elect one of their members as Chair and one of their members
as Vice-Chair. In the absence of the Chair, the Vice-Chair shall act as Chair
and shall have all powers of the Chair. The Chair shall serve a term of two
years. No member shall serve as Chair for more than two consecutive terms.
      (6)   The Chair, or in the Chair’s absence the Vice-Chair, shall be in
charge of all proceedings before the Commission, and shall take such actions as
necessary to preserve order and the integrity of all proceedings before the
Commission.
   (D)   Recording Secretary. The Council shall appoint a Recording Secretary
to serve the Commission. The Recording Secretary shall keep the minutes of all
proceedings of the Commission, which minutes shall be the official record of
all proceedings before the Commission, attested to by a majority vote of the
members of the Commission. The Recording Secretary shall be compensated as
approved by the Council.
   (E)   Quorum and necessary vote. No meeting of the Commission may be called
to order, nor may any business be transacted without a quorum consisting of at
least three members of the Commission being present. The Chair and the
alternate member shall be included for purposes of establishing a quorum and
shall act as a voting member of the Commission. The alternate member shall
attend the meetings and, in the event of any absence of any regular member at a
meeting, the alternate shall assume a regular member place on the Commission
and shall vote in that place at that meeting. In the event that all five
regular members are in attendance, the alternate shall sit in on the meeting
and have a voice, but shall not have a vote. All actions of the Commission
shall require a roll call vote of the Commissions duly seated at a meeting with
a majority of said members voting in the affirmative.
   (F)   Meetings, hearings and procedure.
      (1)   The Commission shall establish a regular meeting schedule.
      (2)   Special meetings may be requested by the Council, the Chair of the
Commission or a majority of the members of the Commission.
      (3)   If a matter is postponed due to lack of a quorum, the Chair shall
reschedule the matter to the next available Commission meeting. The Recording
Secretary shall notify all interested parties and all members of the Commission
of the date when the rescheduled matter will be heard by the Commission.
   (G)   Effective date of decisions. All decisions of the Commission shall
become effective on the date of the meeting when the decision is made unless a
different date is designated in the rules of the Commission, or the Commission
designates a different date when the decision is made.
   (H)   Commission members volunteers. Members of the Commission shall be
deemed “volunteers” for the purposes of town ordinances, rules, regulations,
and policies concerning personnel; provided, however, Commission members shall
be included in the definition of “employee” for the purposes of the state’s
Governmental Immunity Act.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 303; Ord. 2017-01, passed 3-2-2017; Ord. 2018-5, passed 12-6-2018)
§ 153.043 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Town Board of Adjustment (hereinafter the “BOA”) was heretofore created
and established pursuant to the Act, or prior enactments thereof.
   (A)   Powers and duties. The BOA shall:
      (1)   Recommend to the Council and Commission amendments to the General
Plan or any elements thereof, as the BOA considers necessary;
      (2)   Recommend to the Council and Commission amendments to any land use
ordinance, including this chapter, and any amendments to any provision or
requirements thereof, as the BOA considers necessary;
      (3)   Recommend to the Council and Commission amendments to any official
maps, all provisions and requirements thereof, as the BOA considers necessary;
      (4)   Review and approve, approve with requirements, or deny all variance
applications, with a finding of an unreasonable hardship, as required by the
Act, and as provided herein;
      (5)   Render a decision on a determination of a legal non-conforming use,
as provided herein;
      (6)   Render a decision on a determination of a legal non-complying
structure, as provided herein;
      (7)   Render a decision on any other legal non-conformity, as provided
herein; and
      (8)   Adopt bylaws, policies and procedures for the conduct of the duties
and meetings of the BOA, for the consideration of applications and for any
other purposes deemed necessary by the BOA; provided that, such bylaws,
policies and procedures shall be approved by the Council before taking effect.
   (B)   No authority. The BOA shall have no power, jurisdiction or authority
to consider any of the following:
      (1)   To hear any amendments, waivers or modifications to any of the
standards governing the approval of any General Plan amendment application or
any land use ordinance amendment application;
      (2)   To hear any amendments, waivers or modifications to the General
Plan, any element, provision or map thereof, or any provision or requirement of
any land use ordinance, including this chapter, any zoning districts maps and
any official maps;
      (3)   To make any decisions or determinations that would have the effect
of authorizing a use which is not identified in the tables of uses, as provided
herein; and
      (4)   To hear or decide any matter or application not expressly
identified by division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Qualifications for membership. Members of the BOA shall be appointed
by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Council.
   (D)   Membership; appointment, removal, terms and vacancies.
      (1)   The BOA shall be composed of five members.
      (2)   Members of the BOA may be compensated on a per diem basis, based
upon meetings actually attended and reasonable and necessary expenses, as
determined by the Council.
      (3)   All members shall serve a term of five years. No member shall serve
more than two consecutive terms.
      (4)   The Council, after finding cause, may remove any member of the BOA
for violation of this chapter or any policies or procedures adopted by the BOA
following receipt of a written complaint filed against the member. The Council
shall provide the member with a hearing, if requested.
      (5)   At an annual organizational meeting held the first regular meeting
of the year, and at other times as required, the members of the BOA shall elect
one of their members as Chair and one of their members as Vice-Chair. In the
absence of the Chair, the Vice-Chair shall act as Chair and shall have all
powers of the Chair. The Chair and Vice-Chair shall serve a term of two years.
No member shall serve as Chair for more than two consecutive terms.
      (6)   The Chair or, in the Chair’s absence, the Vice-Chair of the BOA
shall be in charge of all proceedings before the BOA, and shall take such
action as shall be necessary to preserve order and the integrity of all
proceedings before the BOA.
   (E)   Recording Secretary. The Council shall appoint a recording secretary
to serve the BOA. The Recording Secretary shall keep the minutes of all
proceedings of the BOA, which minutes shall be the official record of all
proceedings before the BOA, attested to by a majority of the members of the BOA
voting. The Recording Secretary shall be compensated as approved by the
Council.
   (F)   Quorum and necessary vote. No meeting of the BOA may be called to
order, nor may any business be transacted, without a quorum consisting of at
least three members of the BOA being present. The Chair shall be included for
purposes of establishing a quorum and shall act as a voting member of the BOA.
All actions of the BOA shall require the concurring vote of a majority of the
total members of the BOA.
   (G)   Meetings, hearings and procedure.
      (1)   Regular meetings of the BOA shall be held as required.
      (2)   Special meetings may be requested by the Council, the Chair of the
BOA or a majority of the members of the BOA.
      (3)   If a matter is postponed due to lack of a quorum, the Chair of the
BOA shall reschedule the matter to the next available meeting. The Recording
Secretary shall notify all interested parties and all members of the BOA of the
date when the rescheduled matter will be heard.
   (H)   Effective date of decisions. All decisions of the BOA shall become
effective on the date of the meeting when the decision is made unless a
different date is designated in the rules of the BOA, or the BOA designates a
different date when the decision is made.
   (I)   BOA members as volunteers. Members of the BOA shall be deemed
“volunteers” for the purposes of town ordinances, rules, regulations and
policies concerning personnel; provided, however, BOA members shall be included
in the definition of “employee” for the purposes of the state’s Governmental
Immunity Act.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 304)
§ 153.044 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   General. The Council may designate a person to carry out the
administrative responsibilities of this chapter and
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances. The person so designated is referred to
herein as the “Zoning Administrator.”
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Zoning Administrator shall:
      (1)   Ensure all procedures and provisions of the town’s land use
ordinances, including this chapter, are consistently and equitably applied;
      (2)   Approve, approve with requirements or deny the following
applications:
         (a)   All temporary use applications; and
         (b)   All permitted use applications.
      (3)   Render interpretations of the text of this chapter, as provided
herein;
      (4)   Render determinations of a zoning district boundary application, as
provided herein; and
      (5)   Carry out all other functions, duties and actions as may be
necessary to administer this chapter and as may be identified herein.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 305)
§ 153.045 SUPPORT.
   The officers and staff of the town may provide support and assistance to the
Council, Commission and BOA as required to effectively implement the General
Plan, this chapter and
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 306)
§ 153.046 MEETINGS AND PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   All meetings and hearings of all land use authorities identified herein
shall comply with the provisions of this chapter, and all other applicable
ordinances for such meetings and hearings and the requirements of the laws of
the state for open and public meetings.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 307)
§ 153.047 PROVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDELINES.
   All administrative documents, including application forms, instructions, and
educational materials needed for the administration of this chapter shall be
prepared and updated, as necessary, by the Zoning Administrator, with the
advice of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 308; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
§ 153.048 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   Unless specifically provided by the requirements of this chapter as
otherwise, all times identified herein shall be computed using calendar days;
except that, if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, that day
shall be excluded and time computed to the next regular business day following
the Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done shall be computed by
excluding the first day and including the last day.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 309)
§ 153.049 FRACTIONAL NUMBERS.
   (A)   In determining compliance with the numerical requirements of this
chapter, any computation or measurement resulting in a fractional number,
except density calculations, shall be rounded to the nearest whole number.
   (B)   Density calculations shall be rounded down to the nearest whole
number.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 310)
§ 153.050 PROCEDURAL IRREGULARITIES.
   (A)   Validity of action. Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter
which sets forth a procedure for any matter herein, no decision, action,
inaction or recommendation regarding the matter which is the subject of the
procedure shall be void or invalid or set aside by a court due to any error
(including, but not limited to, any irregularity, informality, neglect or
omission) which pertains to an application, notice, decision, finding, record,
hearing, report, recommendation or any other procedural matter whatsoever
unless:
      (1)   The procedure is required by state or federal law; and
      (2)   In an examination of the entire circumstances, including the
evidence, the court is of the opinion that the procedural error complained of
was prejudicial to a substantial right of the complainant as shown by the
following:
         (a)   Had the error not occurred the decision made pursuant to the
procedure would have been different; and
         (b)   Because of the error, the complainant suffered an injury for
which relief must be given.
   (B)   Presumption of validity.
      (1)   The court shall presume that a decision or action taken pursuant to
a procedure was done in good faith and shall not presume that an error is
prejudicial, or that an injury occurred.
      (2)   The complainant shall have the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence to show that an error is prejudicial or that an injury
occurred.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 311)
§ 153.051 DETERMINATION OF COMPLETENESS OF LAND USE APPLICATIONS.
   As provided for by the Act, the Zoning Administrator shall determine a land
use application submitted and complete on the date when the application is
provided in a form that complies with the requirements of this chapter, as
applicable, and all applicable application fees have been paid.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 312)
§ 153.052 CONTINUING VALIDITY OF LAND USE APPLICATION APPROVALS.
   (A)   The validity of an approval of a land use application shall terminate
180 calendar days from the date of the approval by the land use authority
unless an alternative date is specifically provided by the applicable land use
ordinance, or the applicant has proceeded within 180 calendar days from the
date of approval with reasonable diligence to implement the approval.
   (B)   The validity of an approval of a land use application shall expire and
shall be invalid and null and void after 180 calendar days from the date of
approval by the land use authority or after the expiration of the time provided
by the alternative date, as provided by the applicable land use ordinance.
   (C)   An approval by a land use authority shall be invalid and null and void
if a use is conducted, or a building or structure is established in violation
of any requirements of the town’s land use ordinances, including this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 313)
§ 153.053 LAND USE AUTHORITY COMPLIANCE WITH LAND USE ORDINANCES.
   Each land use authority, as identified herein, shall comply with all terms
and standards of all applicable land use ordinances, including this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 314)
§ 153.054 LAND USE APPROVALS REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH LAND USE ORDINANCES.
   The approval of any land use application:
   (A)   Shall continue to comply with all requirements, conditions, terms and
standards of approval, as required by the land use authority; and
   (B)   Shall continue to comply with the requirements of all land use
ordinances, including this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 315)
§ 153.055 ACQUIRING PROPERTY.
   (A)   The town may acquire property through purchase, gift, voluntary
dedication or eminent domain.
   (B)   The town may require the dedication and improvement of a street or
other public facility, if the street or other facility is found necessary by
the town because of a land use application approval.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 316)
§ 153.056 EXACTIONS.
   A land use authority may impose an exaction, or exactions, on a land use
application if:
   (A)   An essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest
and each exaction; and
   (B)   Each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and in extent,
to the impact of the proposed development.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 317)
AMENDMENTS TO THE BOULDER TOWN GENERAL
PLAN AND ZONING ORDINANCE
§ 153.070 AMENDMENTS TO TOWN’S GENERAL PLAN.
   (A)   A proposed amendment to the Town General Plan may be initiated by any
property owner, any person resident of the town, any business owner, the
Council, Commission or BOA by filing an application for a General Plan
amendment.
   (B)   An application for an amendment to the General Plan may be filed with
the town on the applicable application form.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 401)
§ 153.071 PROCEDURES FOR AMENDING THE TOWN’S GENERAL PLAN.
   (A)   Commission public hearing required. Prior to recommending the
adoption, rejection or revision of any General Plan amendment, the Commission
shall hold a public hearing in accordance with the procedures of this chapter
and the Act.
   (B)   Commission recommendation transmitted to Council. After the Commission
has reviewed the application and made its recommendation, the Commission shall
transmit to the Council a copy of the Commission’s recommendation and the
transcripts and/or minutes, and all other relevant materials of the proceedings
before the Commission. Following receipt of a copy of the General Plan
amendment recommendation from the Commission, and all other materials, the
Council shall schedule a public hearing to consider the Commission
recommendation for the proposed General Plan amendment.
   (C)   Council public hearing required. The Council shall consider the
General Plan amendment recommendation of the Commission at a public hearing
pursuant to the procedures established by this chapter and the Act.
   (D)   Council action. Following the public hearing, the Council may approve
the amendment, revise the proposed amendment and approve the proposed amendment
as revised, or reject the proposed amendment. If the Council approves the
proposed amendment as submitted or as revised, the Council shall adopt the
General Plan amendment by ordinance.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 402)
§ 153.072 CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OF GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENTS.
   In considering a proposed amendment to the Town General Plan, the
application shall identify, and the Commission and Council shall consider the
following factors, among others:
   (A)   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the
surrounding area;
   (B)   Compatibility of the proposed uses with nearby and adjoining
properties;
   (C)   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested;
   (D)   The effect of the proposed amendment on the existing goals, objectives
and policies of the General Plan, and listing any revisions to this chapter,
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances and any other ordinances required to
implement the amendment; and
   (E)   The community benefit of the proposed amendment.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 403)
§ 153.073 EFFECT OF GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT; CONSISTENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A General Plan amendment shall not authorize the development of land.
   (B)   After a General Plan amendment has been approved by the Council, no
development shall occur until the required permits and licenses have been
issued by the town consistent with the applicable provisions of this chapter,
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances, the Building Codes as adopted by the town
and all other ordinances.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 404)
§ 153.074 AMENDMENTS TO THIS CHAPTER, INCLUDING THE ZONING DISTRICTS MAP.
   (A)   Application. A proposed amendment to this chapter, including the
zoning districts map, may be initiated by any property owner, any person
residing in the town, any business owner, the Council, Commission or BOA by
filing an application for chapter amendment.
   (B)   Submission. An application for an amendment to this chapter, including
the zoning districts map, shall be filed with the town on the applicable
application form.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 405)
§ 153.075 PROCEDURES FOR AMENDING THIS CHAPTER AND ZONING DISTRICTS MAP
AMENDMENTS (REZONES).
   (A)   Commission public hearing required. Prior to recommending the
adoption, rejection or revision of any zoning ordinance amendment, including
zoning map amendments (rezones), the Commission shall hold a public hearing in
accordance with the procedures of this chapter and the Act.
   (B)   Commission recommendation. At a regular meeting, the Commission shall
consider and formulate a recommendation to the Council on the proposed zoning
ordinance amendment, including zoning map amendments (rezones).
   (C)   Commission recommendation transmitted to Council.
      (1)   After the Commission has reviewed the application and made its
recommendation, the Commission shall transmit to the Council a copy of the
Commission’s recommendation and the transcripts and/or minutes, and all other
relevant materials of the proceedings before the Commission.
      (2)   Following receipt of a copy of the zoning ordinance amendment or
zoning map amendment recommendation from the Commission, and all other
materials, the Council shall schedule a public hearing to consider the
Commission recommendation for the proposed amendment.
   (D)   Council public hearing required. The Council shall consider zoning
ordinance and zoning map amendment recommendations of the Commission at a
public hearing pursuant to the procedures established by this chapter and the
Act.
   (E)   Council action.
      (1)   Following the public hearing, the Council may approve the
amendment, revise the proposed amendment and approve the proposed amendment as
revised, or reject the proposed amendment.
      (2)   If the Council approves the proposed amendment as submitted or as
revised, the Council shall adopt the zoning ordinance and zoning map amendment
by ordinance.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 406)
§ 153.076 CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OF A ZONING ORDINANCE AND/OR ZONING DISTRICTS
MAP AMENDMENT.
   (A)   No amendment to the zoning ordinance or zoning districts map (rezone)
may be recommended by the Commission, nor approved by the Council, unless such
amendment is found to be consistent with the General Plan.
   (B)   In considering a zoning ordinance or zoning districts map amendment,
the Commission and the Council shall consider the following factors, among
others:
      (1)   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the
surrounding area;
      (2)   The compatibility of the proposed uses with nearby and adjoining
properties;
      (3)   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested; and
      (4)   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 407)
§ 153.077 EFFECT OF AN AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER AND ZONING DISTRICTS MAP.
   (A)   An amendment to the zoning ordinance and zoning districts map (rezone)
shall not authorize the development of land.
   (B)   After an amendment has been approved by the Council, no development
shall occur until the required development permits and licenses have been
issued by the town consistent with the applicable provisions of this chapter,
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances, the Building Codes as adopted by the town
and all other ordinances.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 408; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
DEVELOPMENT APPLICATIONS AND PROCEDURES
§ 153.090 PURPOSE.
   The development applications and procedures of the town are formulated and
intended to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the town through
the application of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 501)
§ 153.091 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   A development or building permit application shall be required for all
uses, intensification of uses, and construction or modifications for all
properties located within the municipal boundaries of the town.
   (B)   All development applications are to be presented to the town on the
applicable application form(s) available from the town.
   (C)   The type of development application presented to the town is at the
discretion of the applicant.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 502)
§ 153.092 APPLICATION FORMS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall identify submittal requirements and internal
procedures for acceptance and filing of applications.
   (B)   The town shall provide the necessary application forms for the
administration, interpretation and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 503)
§ 153.093 DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   The steps in the review and consideration of the various development
applications, permits and licenses authorized by this chapter may be identified
by the town in this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 504)
§ 153.094 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The standards and requirements of this chapter, as applicable, shall
apply to all uses or development activity located or proposed within the town.
   (B)   No use or development activity may be commenced or undertaken unless
all necessary approvals, permits and licenses have been issued in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, as applicable.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 505)
§ 153.095 DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION; INITIATION.
   An application for a required development approval, permit or license shall
be initiated by submitting the appropriate application(s) to the town.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 506)
§ 153.096 DETERMINATION OF APPLICATION COMPLETENESS.
   (A)   After the receipt of an application, the Zoning Administrator shall
determine whether the application is complete.
   (B)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that the application is
incomplete, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing,
identifying the deficiencies of the application and advising the applicant that
no action will be taken by the town until the deficiencies have been corrected.
   (C)   Determinations of completeness made by Zoning Administrator shall be
reviewed by the Board of Adjustment if the applicant considers the
determination to be in error.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 507)
§ 153.097 REMEDYING APPLICATION DEFICIENCIES.
   (A)   If the applicant fails to correct the specified deficiencies within 30
days following notification of application deficiency by the Zoning
Administrator, the application for development approval, permit or license
shall be deemed withdrawn and will be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   All application fees shall also be returned to the applicant.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 508)
§ 153.098 PAYMENT OF TAXES AND CHARGES REQUIRED.
   All development approvals may be conditioned so that no building permit is
issued on the subject property until all delinquent taxes and charges have been
paid to date of approval.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 509)
§ 153.099 SCOPE OF DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS.
   (A)   The rights conferred by a development permit upon the filing of a
complete application and approval by the town shall be limited to those rights
granted in the applicable provisions of this chapter and subject to any
conditions attached to the development permit.
   (B)   A development permit shall be considered void after one year unless
construction has taken place or the activity has commenced; provided, however,
that, a longer period may be provided for a phased development application as
set forth in the development approval.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 510)
§ 153.100 AMENDMENT TO DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   All proposed amendments to an approved development approval, permit or
license issued under the provisions of this chapter must be reviewed and
reapproved in accordance with the procedures established for the approval of
the original development approval or development permit, unless determined to
be a minor revision under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 511)
§ 153.101 REAPPLICATION FOLLOWING DENIAL.
   If an application for a development approval, permit or license is denied
for failure to meet the requirements of this chapter, an application for all or
a part of the same property shall not be considered for a period of at least
one year from the date of denial unless the subsequent application is for a
development that is different from the previously denied proposal, the prior
denial was based upon a mistake of fact, or on a motion duly passed by the Town
Council to act immediately and identifying a valid public purpose.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 512)
§ 153.102 INSPECTIONS.
   In order to review information relevant to an application, permit or
license, town official(s) may, upon the permission of the owner, enter upon any
public or private premises and make an inspection thereof.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 513)
§ 153.103 FEE FOR PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall establish, by resolution, a fee schedule for
the processing and review of all applications, permits and licenses required by
this chapter, designed to recover the actual or anticipated costs of review and
processing of the application.
   (B)   The fee schedule may be amended from time to time by resolution of the
Town Council.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 514; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 153.115 ZONING BY DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In accordance with the requirement of the Utah Code that zoning within
municipalities be by districts, the town, as shown on the town zoning districts
map, is divided into zoning districts that govern the use, intensity and other
requirements for the use of land. The map accompanying this chapter, the town
zoning districts map (zoning map), and incorporated herein by reference,
identifies the location and distribution of each zoning district provided by
the town. All development, use, activity and permits and licenses shall conform
to all the provisions, standards and requirements of the applicable zoning
district.
   (B)   To meet the purposes of this chapter, the following zoning districts
are provided:
      (1)   Greenbelt - Multiple Use District (GMU);
      (2)   Low Density Residential District (LDR);
      (3)   Medium Density Residential District (MDR);
      (4)   High Density Residential District (HDR); and
      (5)   Commercial District (C).
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 601)
§ 153.116 ZONING DISTRICTS PURPOSE.
   The zoning districts are formulated to provide and achieve the following
purposes.
   (A)   Greenbelt - Multiple Use District (GMU). The Greenbelt - Multiple Use
District (GMU) is established to provide areas for agricultural activities and
to allow other uses determined to be compatible with agricultural uses and
activities.
   (B)   Low Density Residential District (LDR). This district provides for a
single-family large lot, low-density residential living environment with a
density of one dwelling unit for each five acres and other uses that do not
require additional public facilities and services than those provided to a low-
density residential area. Additionally, this district is established to allow
limited development on areas that may possess certain constraints for
development.
   (C)   Medium Density Residential District (MDR). The Medium Density
Residential (MDR) District, providing a maximum density of one dwelling unit
per two and half acres, is provided by the town to allow an alternative
residential living environment than those provided by the LDR and HDR
Districts.
   (D)   High Density Residential District (HDR). The High Density Residential
District (HDR) provides higher density residential areas and allows a variety
of other uses and services to meet the needs of residents of the town.
   (E)   Commercial District (C). The town provides the Commercial (C) District
to allow a variety of retail commercial, office and light industrial activities
within the town to meet the needs of residents and visitors, to provide
employment opportunities for residents, and to strengthen and provide diversity
to the local economy. As explained in 7.5 of the 2021 amendments to Boulder's
General Plan, this Commercial District is no longer in use. It is retained only
to provide a regulatory framework for those uses that were approved within it.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 602; Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021)
§ 153.117 TABLE OF USES.
   (A)   The Table of Uses (Table 1) identifies the uses allowed within each
Zoning District. The Table of Uses identifies uses allowed as a permitted use
(identified as "P" in the table), for which only administrative permits are
required; uses allowed upon approval of a conditional use permit (identified as
"PC, Potentially Compatible"); and uses allowed as a temporary use (identified
as "T"). Definitions for various uses may be found in §
153.011.
   (B)   All uses not specifically identified as permitted, potentially
compatible (permitted with a conditional use permit), or temporary within a
zoning district are prohibited there, as are all uses that are not specifically
identified or listed in Table 1. Cells that are left blank in the Table of Uses
indicate the use is prohibited in the particular zoning district, though the
use may be allowed in other zoning districts.
Table of Uses
Use Zoning District
Table of Uses
Use                                    Zoning District
                                       GM LDR MDR HDR C
Accessory dwelling unit, commercial    PC
Accessory use or building              P  P   P   P
Agriculture, agricultural buildings    P  P   P   P
Bed and breakfast inn                  PC PC  PC  PC
Borrow pits                            PC
Cemetery                               PC PC
Church                                 PC PC  PC  PC
Commercial use                         PC
Community market (farmer’s market)   T              T
Concrete plant, in existing gravel pit PC
Day care/preschool center              PC
External accessory dwelling unit       PC PC  PC  PC
Farmstand                              T              T
Guest ranch                            PC
Home child care                        P  P   P   P
Home business                          PC PC  PC  PC
Internal accessory dwelling unit       P  P   P   P
Licensed family child care             P  P   P
Long-term temporary use                T  T   T   T   T
Mobile food business                   PC
Public uses and utilities              PC PC  PC  PC
Residential day care certificate       P  P   P   P
Residential facility for elderly       P  P   P   P
Residential short-term rental          PC PC  PC  PC
RV or mobile home as temp residence    T
School                                 PC PC  PC  PC
Single-family on a lot of record       P  P   P   P
Special events                         T  T   T   T   T
Wireless telecommunication facilities  PC PC  PC  PC  PC
NOTES TO TABLE:
A blank cell indicates that the use is prohibited in that zoning district.
 
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 48, passed 8-8-2002; Ord. 51, passed 11-5-
2003; Ord. 46B, passed 12-3-2003; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-
8-2008, § 603; Ord. 66, passed 9-1-2011; Ord. 72, passed 11-7-2013; Ord. 15-1,
passed 2-5-2015; Ord. 2018-4, passed 1-3-2019; Ord. 2019-2, passed 5-2-2019;
Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021; Ord. 2021-5, passed 11-4-2021; Ord. 2021-7, passed
12-2-2021)
§ 153.118 TABLE OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The standards adopted in this table apply to all lots, parcels, buildings,
structures, and uses unless they are specifically exempted by other
requirements of this Code.
Development Standards Zoning Districts
                      GMU LDR MDR HDR C
Development Standards              Zoning Districts
                                   GMU     LDR     MDR       HDR           C
   Density Standards (see note)
Minimum Lot Size without Averaging 5 acres 5 acres 2.5 acres 1 acre
Average Building Lot Size          5 acres 5 acres
Minimum Building Lot Size, Well    1 acre  1 acre  Averaging not permitted
Minimum Building Lot Size, Central 1 acre  1 acre
Water
These minimum building lot sizes for the GMU and LDR may be used ONLY when
lot size averaging is used.
Maximum Lot Coverage               20%     20%     30%       40%
   Dimensional Standards, Principal Buildings
Maximum Building Height            30 ft
Minimum Front Setback              30 ft.
Minimum Rear Setback               30 ft.                    See note
Minimum Side Setback               10 ft.
   Dimensional Standards, Accessory Buildings
Maximum Building Size              1,000 SF                  See note
Maximum Building Height            30 ft
Minimum Front Setback              30 ft.
Minimum Rear Setback               30 ft.                    See note
Minimum Side Setback               10 ft
Note:
1.   With the exception of the maximum building height, the dimensions of
commercial development will usually be controlled by the need to comply with
the standards of §
153.415 or §
153.430. Where compliance with those standards does not result in a larger
setback or a lower lot coverage, commercial uses must comply with the
standards established here for the LDR.
 
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 50, passed 7-2-2003; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-
2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-2008, § 605; Ord. 2022-1, 6-2-2022; Ord. 2024-1,
passed - -2024)
§ 153.119 LOT SIZE AVERAGING.
This Code allows lot size averaging in new subdivisions or re-subdivisions in
the GMU and LDR zoning districts to help implement the Town's general plan and
offer flexibility to landowners.
   (A)    The applicant may use the average lot size listed in the Table of
Development Standards adopted in §
153.118 above as a uniform minimum lot size; or
   (B)   The applicant may propose any combination of lot sizes that are larger
than the applicable minimum lot size established by that Table and result in an
average lot size no smaller than that required by the Table;
   (C)   The basis for the lot size average calculation shall be the total area
of the parcel or lot being divided as of January 4, 2024 and the cumulative
number of existing and proposed building lots on that original parcel, not
including areas separately demarked for common use or open space protection or
rights-of-way, public or private;
   (D)   All lots must comply with all requirements of this Code; and
   (E)   The PC must find that the proposed lot layout is respectful of and
compatible with the:
      (1)   Terrain, avoiding natural hazards while preserving agricultural
opportunities, riparian areas and wetlands, views, and other natural assets;
      (2)    Safe, adequate access to each lot; and
      (3)   Neighboring uses.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024)
§ 153.120 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   The Table of Off-Street Parking Requirements (Table 3) accompanies the Table
of Uses. This table identifies the minimum number of off-street parking spaces
required to be provided by each use or activity allowed within each zoning
district.
Table of Required Off-Street Parking
Use Number Of Off-Street Parking Spaces Required
Table of Required Off-Street Parking
Use                                 Number Of Off-Street Parking Spaces
                                    Required
Accessory dwelling unit             1 in addition to the spaces required for
                                    the primary dwelling
Bed and breakfast inn               1 space for employee, plus 1 space per
                                    guest room
Churches                            1 space for every 4 seats in the assembly
                                    area
Civic/public buildings/public       1 space for every 400 square feet of
facilities                          floor area or as approved by the Planning
                                    Commission
Commercial sales and services       1 space for each 400 square feet of floor
                                    area
Corporate offices, professional     2 spaces, plus 1 space for each 300
offices, business offices and       square feet of gross floor area
financial institutions
Hotels/motels                       1 space for each sleeping unit
                                    1 for each person employed during regular
Light manufacturing                 working hours and adequate spaces for all
                                    company owned vehicles and visitors
Parks and playgrounds               As approved by the Planning Commission
Residential facilities for persons  1 per each 4 residents, plus 1 for each 2
with disabilities                   employees during regular hours
Residential facilities for elderly  1 per each 4 residents, plus 1 for each 2
persons                             employees during regular hours
                                    1 space for each 4 seats or 1 space per
Restaurants                         100 square feet of gross floor area,
                                    whichever is less
Schools                             As approved by the Planning Commission
Single-family dwelling              2 per primary dwelling unit
Sports fields, sporting facilities, 1 space for every 5 seats at maximum
arenas                              capacity or as approved by the Planning
                                    Commission
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) Americans with Disabilities Act. All property owners and applicants for
development approvals are advised that in addition to the minimum off-street
parking requirements, they are also required to comply with the minimum
standards for the provision of handicapped parking spaces as identified and
required by the Americans with Disabilities Act, as amended.
(2) Location of required parking spaces. No off-street parking shall be
provided within any required front yard setback, such area being landscaped.
(3) Dimensions of required parking spaces. Each required parking space shall
be an area of not less than 8 feet 6 inches in width and having an area of
not less than 180 square feet, together with a driveway connecting the
parking space with a street or alley and permitting ingress and egress of an
automobile
(4) Loading and unloading requirements and regulations.
   (a) Loading and unloading for commercial and industrial buildings. For all
commercial and industrial buildings hereafter erected, or for any building
converted to such use or occupancy, there shall be provided 1 loading and
unloading space for each 25,000 square feet of floor area or as approved by
the Planning Commission.
   (b) Location of required loading and unloading spaces. The required
loading and unloading spaces shall in all cases be on the same lot as the use
they are intended to serve. In no case shall required loading and unloading
spaces be part of the area used to satisfy the parking requirement.
   (c) Collective action relative to loading and unloading. This chapter
shall not be construed to prevent the joint use of loading and unloading
spaces for 2 or more buildings or uses if the total of such spaces when used
together is not less than the sum of the spaces required for the various
individual buildings or uses computed separately.
 
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 606; Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021; Ord. 2021-7, passed 12-2-2021)
PERMITTED USES; REVIEW AND APPROVAL
§ 153.135 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   All requests to establish a permitted use, as identified as a permitted use
in the Table of Uses, or to construct any associated buildings, shall be made
on the application form provided by the town.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 701)
§ 153.136 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Applications for a permitted use are required to comply with all
requirements of this chapter for review and approval and the requirements for a
building permit, as applicable.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 702)
§ 153.137 REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the permitted use request and
determine if the request:
      (1)   Is a permitted use within the zoning district;
      (2)   Complies with the requirements applicable to the zoning district,
including minimum area, yard setbacks, height and all other requirements
applicable in the zoning district;
      (3)   Does not propose any construction on any critical lands as defined
by this chapter; and
      (4)   Complies with all applicable dedication requirements of the town
and provides the necessary infrastructure, as required.
   (B)   (1)   Upon finding that the proposed use, building or structure
complies with the standards and requirements as identified in divisions (A)(1)
to (A)(4) above and the proposed use, building or structure can be adequately
serviced by the existing or proposed infrastructure, the development plans
shall be reviewed by the Building Official for compliance to:
         (a)   The provisions of the International Building Code (IBC); and
         (b)   All other codes.
      (2)   If the request for a permitted use, building or structure complies
with all the requirements of this chapter and the International Building Code
(IBC) and all other codes, the permitted use shall be authorized and a building
permit issued.
   (C)   (1)   If the permitted use request does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter and the International Building Code (IBC) and all
other codes, the Zoning Administrator shall not authorize any use, building or
structure, and no building permit shall be issued.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant identifying
what requirements have not been satisfied.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 703; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
§ 153.150 ISSUANCE.
   A conditional use permit may be issued as provided by this chapter for any
of the uses identified as potentially compatible in the Table of Uses adopted
in §
153.117.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 801; Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021)
§ 153.151 APPLICATIONS, PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED; PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORIZED
TO RENDER CONDITIONAL USE DECISIONS.
   (A)   All applications for a CUP shall be made on the form provided by the
Town and be accompanied by a site development plan that complies with the
requirements of §
153.152, and any additional requirements of this chapter. Applications that do
not include a complete site development plan will not be accepted.
   (B)   The Planning Commission is authorized to render a final decision on
applications for a CUP. Prior to rendering such a decision, the Planning
Commission shall conduct a properly noticed public hearing to receive comment
on the application.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 802; Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021)
§ 153.152 SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A site development plan shall be required to accompany all conditional
use applications.
   (B)   The site development plan shall provide the following:
      (1)   A plan drawn to a scale identifying the location and dimension of
the property and any existing buildings or other structures, and fence lines;
      (2)    Proof of ownership of the lot on which the CUP is requested and,
where the application for a CUP is presented by a representative, the owner's
written authorization for the representative to submit the application;
      (3)   The location and dimension of all proposed buildings;
      (4)   All proposed off-street parking areas including egress and ingress
and including areas for off-street parking during construction;
      (5)   The location of roads and utilities that are now serving the site
or will be required to serve the site;
      (6)   A storm water plan;
      (7)   A landscape plan identifying the treatments, including type and
number of plant materials proposed for all areas not occupied by buildings and
parking and identifying proposed screening and buffering treatments and a
calculation of the amount of pervious and impervious area;
      (8)   A construction plan identifying the phases of construction, a
construction schedule and a list of all permits necessary for the proposed use;
      (9)   A service impact assessment which shall include, but not be limited
to, identifying requirements for culinary water, sanitary sewer and anticipated
traffic volumes, proposed accesses and Utah Department of Transportation
requirements and permits, as applicable;
      (10)   The proposed material and colors of all exterior building facades
shall be identified as well as all proposed site signage, including the height
and size of all signs. All signage must comply with the requirements of §
153.202 of this chapter; and
      (11)   Commercial site development plans shall also be required to
include all other materials needed to demonstrate compliance with the
requirements of this chapter, specifically including compliance with the
standards of §§
153.185 et seq.,
153.400 et seq., and
153.415 et seq.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 803; Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021; Ord. 2021-7, passed 12-2-2021)
§ 153.153 [RESERVED].
§ 153.154 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the Planning Commission finds that a proposed potentially
compatible use complies with all the requirements of this chapter, specifically
including, but not limited to, the standards of §§
153.400 et seq. and
153.415 et seq., whichever is applicable, it shall approve the application for
a CUP.
      (2)   In approving a CUP, the Planning Commission may impose any
conditions needed to ensure compliance with the applicable standards. All
conditions imposed must be clearly designed to ensure compliance with a
specifically cited standard or standards of this chapter.
      (3)   Following approval of a CUP, with or without conditions, the
applicant may apply for any other approvals, licenses or permits necessary to
implement the conditional use application approval.
   (B)   If the Planning Commission finds that, a proposed potentially
compatible use does not comply with the standards of this chapter, specifically
including, but not limited to, the standards of §§
153.400 et seq. and
153.415 et seq., whichever is applicable, the application for a CUP shall be
denied. If a CUP is denied by the Planning Commission, no other approvals,
licenses, or permits related to the proposed use shall be approved or issued.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 805; Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021)
§ 153.155 REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   A CUP may be modified or revoked by the Planning Commission following a
properly noticed public hearing at which the Planning Commission finds that one
or more of the following conditions exists:
   (A)   The CUP was obtained in a fraudulent manner or there has been a
significant change in the use as it was represented in the application for a
CUP.
   (B)   The use for which the CUP was granted has ceased for at least six (6)
consecutive calendar months.
   (C)   The use is not in continuing compliance with one or more of the
applicable standards of this chapter.
   (D)   One or more of the conditions imposed on approval of the CUP has not
been met.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 806; Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021)
§ 153.156 USE OF RV OR MOBILE HOME FOR LIVING PURPOSES DURING PERIOD OF
CONSTRUCTION OF PERMANENT DWELLING.
   Any person or entity who has obtained all permits and complied with all
requirements necessary for the construction of a permanent dwelling on a lot in
the town and who is in the process of constructing a permanent dwelling on such
lot may obtain a conditional use permit allowing the user to reside in an RV or
a mobile home on the lot where the permanent dwelling is being constructed for
a period of up to one year. The RV or mobile home must be connected to water
and sewer service which has the approval of the town and by Southwest Utah
Public Health Department. The town may extend the period of conditional use
after one year only upon being provided proof that substantial progress is
being made on the construction of the permanent dwelling and evidence being
presented that construction will be completed within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 46B, passed 12-3-2003; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 801; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
TEMPORARY USES
§ 153.170 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The following regulations are provided to accommodate those uses that
are identified as a temporary use in the Table of Uses.
   (B)   The character and nature of a temporary use shall be such that
conditions may be required to protect adjacent properties and the general
health, safety and welfare of citizens of the town.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 901)
§ 153.171 APPLICATIONS; ZONING ADMINISTRATOR AUTHORIZED TO RENDER TEMPORARY USE
DECISIONS.
   (A)   All requests for a temporary use permit shall be made on the form
provided by the town.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to render a final decision on
the issuance of a temporary use permit upon a finding of compliance with all
applicable requirements of this chapter, specifically including, but not
limited to, the requirements of §§ 153.415 et seq. Approval of a temporary use
permit may be subject to conditions, as provided in §
153.174.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 902; Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021)
§ 153.172 ALLOWED TEMPORARY USES.
   The following uses and activities may be permitted by the Zoning
Administrator with a finding that the temporary use will be conducted in
compliance with all the requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   A use proposed to be established for a maximum period of one hundred
twenty (120) days, such use being discontinued after the expiration of one
hundred twenty (120) days.
   (B)   Special events, for a period not to exceed forty five (45) days,
including;
      (1)   Fund-raising activities conducted by a registered non-profit
organization.
      (2)   Organized events, educational, historic, religious and patriotic
displays or exhibits, including concerts, athletic or recreational events,
festivals, street fairs, arts and crafts fairs, and other organized events.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 903; Ord. 15-1, passed 2-5-2015; Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021)
§ 153.173 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   All family gatherings shall be exempt from the requirements of a
temporary use permit and shall not require a temporary use permit.
   (B)   The following gatherings shall be exempt and shall not require a
temporary use permit:
      (1)   Family gatherings;
      (2)   All gatherings under 20 people;
      (3)   Church sponsored gatherings;
      (4)   Government sponsored gatherings;
      (5)   School sponsored gatherings; and
      (6)   Private gatherings conducted on private property and not advertised
for the general public.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 904; Ord. 15-1, passed 2-5-2015; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
§ 153.174 CONDITIONS MAY BE IMPOSED.
The Zoning Administrator may condition approval of a temporary use permit on:
   (A)    Submission and approval of a parking plan that shows how adequate
parking for the proposed temporary use will be provided using existing parking
areas and/or temporary parking areas that have safe access from a public road
and will be properly managed to avoid creating traffic congestion, dust, and
other nuisances; and/or
   (B)   Submission and approval of a solid waste management plan showing in
detail how solid waste generated by the proposed temporary use will be
collected, stored, and removed; and/or
   (C)   Submission of a sanitation plan showing in detail how any need for
restroom facilities generated by the proposed temporary use will be met; and/or
   (D)   Submission and approval of a plan that clearly shows how any signs
associated with the temporary use will comply with the requirements of §§
153.185 et seq.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator may refer any application for a temporary use
permit to the Planning Commission at any regular meeting. The power to approve
the permit will remain with the Zoning Administrator. The purpose of such a
referral will be to seek informal comments and recommendations.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021)
GENERAL AND SUPPLEMENTARY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 153.185 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   The purpose of general and supplementary property development
standards is to protect the general health, safety and welfare of the citizens
and property owners of the town and to implement the Town General Plan.
   (B)   Compliance with all general and supplementary standards as well as all
other requirements of this chapter and all other applicable requirements of
other town ordinances shall be required for the issuance of any required
development approval, license or permit.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1001)
§ 153.186 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All uses, buildings and structures to comply with zoning district
requirements. Every building or structure hereafter erected, reconstructed,
structurally altered, enlarged or moved and every building, structure, premises
or land used, rearranged, designed or intended for any use shall be built or
used only as allowed by the zoning district in which such building, structure,
land or use is located.
   (B)   Allowed uses. All uses allowed within the town, either as a permitted,
conditional or temporary use, are identified in the Table of Uses.
   (C)   Prohibited uses. All uses of land and other activities not
specifically allowed as a permitted, conditional or temporary use as identified
in the Table of Uses are prohibited uses and are uses not allowed in the town.
   (D)   Allowed minimum use of legal lots. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to prevent the use for one single-family dwelling on any legally
created lot or parcel of land; provided that, such lot or parcel of land is
located in a zoning district which permits single-family dwellings, and was a
legal lot that at the time of adoption of this chapter and provided further
that all proposed construction can qualify for the issuance of a building
permit as required by the International Building Code (IBC).
   (E)   Subdivision and sale of property. No person shall subdivide any parcel
of land located wholly or in part within the town for development purposes
unless the parcel was legally created as required by Ch. 152 of this code of
ordinances and all other applicable laws and requirements of the state.
   (F)   Lots in two or more districts. Where a lot of record at the time of
passage of this chapter or any amendments thereto falls into two or more
districts, the more restrictive zoning district provisions shall apply.
   (G)   Required yard areas for one building only. No required yard or setback
area for any building or lot required for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this chapter shall be considered as providing the required yard
or setback for any other building or lot.
   (H)   Every dwelling. Non-residential building and all other structures to
be on a lot. All buildings and structures shall be located and maintained on a
recorded lot.
   (I)   Required yards to be unobstructed; exceptions.
      (1)   All yard areas are required to be open to the sky and unobstructed,
except for permitted and approved accessory buildings and for projection of
sills and other ornamental features and unenclosed steps and unwalled stoops,
and porches; provided that, all buildings or parts thereof comply with the
setback requirements of the zoning district in which they are located.
      (2)   Walls and fences complying with the requirements of this chapter or
meet the conditions of a development approval.
   (J)   Construction in sensitive areas prohibited.
      (1)   No building or structure, except for a required public utility,
shall be constructed on areas determined to be sensitive.
      (2)   For the purposes of this chapter, SENSITIVE AREAS are defined and
identified as:
         (a)   Areas of slope with an average 30% grade or greater;
         (b)   Flood channels as identified by a federal or state agency; and
         (c)   Jurisdictional wetlands as identified by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1002)
§ 153.187 NON-CONFORMING LOTS PROHIBITED.
   No lot which does not conform to the zoning district requirements in which
it is located shall be created for the purpose, whether immediate or future,
for any building, use or development allowed by this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1003)
§ 153.188 SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE PROHIBITED.
   No area needed to meet the lot width, area, setback or other requirements of
this chapter for a lot or building may be sold or leased separate from such lot
or building.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1004)
§ 153.189 RESERVED.
§ 153.190 ACCESS REQUIRED.
   Every lot shall have frontage upon a public road or street, or have access
to a private street or driveway that is on a recorded easement and that leads
to a public road or street. The preliminary subdivision plat and other
application materials shall show the proposed public street, private street,
and private driveway and easement layout.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1006; Ord. 2022-1, passed 6-2-2022)
§ 153.191 FENCES AND WALLS.
   Fences and walls shall not exceed six feet in height.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1007)
§ 153.192 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   Steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, water tanks, silos, barns or similar
structures may be erected above the height limits required by this chapter, but
no space above the height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of providing
additional floor space.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1008; Ord. 2020-3, passed 9-3-2020)
§ 153.193 WATER AND SEWAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   As required by this section, all applications for building permits shall be
accompanied by the appropriate permits or letters of approval from an approved
water system, the Southwest Utah Public Health Department or the State
Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable, prior to approval.
   (A)   Water requirements.
      (1)   In all cases where a proposed building or proposed use will require
culinary water (drinking water) and the proposed building or proposed use will
not be connected to an existing public water supply, approval for the culinary
water system must be obtained from the Southwest Utah Public Health Department
or the State Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable.
      (2)   For any building or use with more than 14 culinary water
connections, or where 25 or more people will be served 60 or more days a year,
approval of the culinary water system must be obtained from the State
Department of Environmental Quality. For any building or use with fewer than 14
culinary water connections, or where fewer than 25 people will be served, or
where 25 or more people will be served fewer than 60 days a year, approval of
the culinary water system must be obtained from the Southwest Utah Public
Health Department.
   (B)   Sewage requirements.
      (1)   In all cases where a proposed building or proposed use will
generate wastewater, approval for wastewater disposal shall be obtained from
the Southwest Utah Public Health Department or the State Department of
Environmental Quality, as applicable.
      (2)   For any building or use where an individual wastewater disposal
system (septic system) is proposed, of less than 5,000 gallons of wastewater
flow per day, approval shall be obtained from the Southwest Utah Public Health
Department. For any building or use where a large wastewater disposal system is
proposed with greater than or equal to 5,000 gallons of wastewater flow per
day, approval shall be obtained from the State Department of Environmental
Quality.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1009)
§ 153.194 EFFECT OF OFFICIAL MAP.
   Wherever a required front yard faces on a road or street, the depth of such
front yard shall be measured from the mapped street line provided by the
official map.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1010)
§ 153.195 NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   All property owners shall comply with the requirements of the Utah Noxious
Weeds Act, UCA Title 4, Chapter 17, as amended.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1011)
§ 153.196 SITE LIGHTING.
   (A)   All buildings and grounds, including residential buildings, may be
illuminated by such lighting fixtures as the owner of the property may
determine; provided that, the lighting fixtures are equipped with shields,
shrouds, lenses or other devices that concentrate the illumination only upon
the building and grounds of the owner and minimize light trespass to adjoining
properties.
   (B)   Indoor lighting shall not be provided or constructed in such a fashion
as to provide lighting for any outdoor areas.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1012)
§ 153.197 SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential facilities for elderly persons. The approval of a
residential facility for elderly persons is non-transferable and automatically
terminates if the structure is devoted to a use other than a residential
facility for elderly persons, or if the structure fails to comply with the
requirements of this section.
      (1)   A residential facility for elderly persons shall not:
         (a)   Operate as a business (UCA § 10-9a-516(1), as amended);
         (b)   Be considered as a business because a fee is charged for food or
actual and necessary costs of operation and maintenance of the facility (UCA §
10-9a-516(3), as amended); and
         (c)   Provide housing for a person being treated for alcoholism or
drug abuse (UCA § 10-9a-518, as amended).
      (2)   A residential facility for elderly persons shall:
         (a)   Be owned by one of the residents or by an immediate family
member of one of the residents or be a facility for which the title has been
placed in trust for a resident (UCA § 10-9a-516(2)(a), as amended);
         (b)   Be consistent with all existing, applicable land use ordinance
requirements affecting the location (UCA § 10-9a-516(2)(b), as amended);
         (c)   Be occupied on a 24-hour basis by eight or fewer elderly persons
in a family-type arrangement (UCA § 10-9a-516(2)(c), as amended);
         (d)   Be capable of use as a residential facility for elderly persons
without structural or landscaping alterations that would change the structure’s
residential character (UCA § 10-9a-517(2)(c), as amended);
         (e)   Shall meet all land use ordinances, Building Code(s), and Health
Codes as adopted, as applicable to similar dwellings (UCA § 10-9a-517(2)(a), as
amended); and
         (f)   Provide adequate off-street parking (UCA § 10-9a-517(2)(b), as
amended).
      (3)   Placement in a residential facility for elderly persons shall be on
a strictly voluntary basis and not a part of, or in lieu of, confinement,
rehabilitation or treatment in a correctional facility (UCA § 10-9a-517(2)(f),
as amended).
   (B)   Supplementary requirements for residential facilities for persons with
disabilities.
      (1)   Types of residential facilities for persons with disabilities. A
residential dwelling for four or more persons as licensed by the Department of
Human Services, Division of Services For People with Disabilities.
      (2)   Residential treatment facilities and program. A residential
treatment facility or residential treatment program, as licensed and monitored
by the state’s Department of Human Services, under the core and categorical
rules for treatment.
      (3)   Day treatment facility and program. A day treatment facility or day
treatment program, as licensed and monitored by the state’s Department of Human
Services, under the core and categorical rules for treatment.
      (4)   Outpatient treatment facility and program. An outpatient treatment
facility or outpatient treatment program, as licensed and monitored by the
state’s Department of Human Services, under the core and categorical rules for
treatment.
      (5)   Residential support facility and programs. A residential support
facility or residential support program, as licensed and monitored by the
state’s Department of Human Services, under the core and categorical rules for
treatment.
      (6)   Social detoxification facility and programs. A social
detoxification facility or social detoxification program, as licensed and
monitored by the state’s Department of Human Services, under the core and
categorical rules for treatment.
      (7)   Intermediate secure treatment facility and programs for minors. An
intermediate secure treatment facility for minors or intermediate secure
treatment program for minors, as licensed and monitored by the state’s
Department of Human Services, under the core and categorical rules for
treatment.
   (C)   Compliance with Health Codes, Building Codes, Fire Codes and zoning
district requirements.
      (1)   General. No residential facility for persons with a disability
shall be established unless:
         (a)   It is proposed in an existing building that complies with all
Building, Fire and Health Codes, as adopted, applicable to similar structures,
and all requirements of this chapter;
         (b)   It is proposed in a new building that complies with all
Building, Fire and Health Codes, as adopted, applicable to similar structures,
and all requirements of this chapter; and
         (c)   The existing or proposed building complies with all requirements
of the zoning district in which it is located, or proposed, and applicable to
similar structures.
      (2)   Maximum number of occupants (consumers and staff). For any existing
building, or any new building, proposed to be used for a residential facility
for persons with a disability, the building, or building plans shall be
reviewed by the Building Official, considering the categorical standards for
physical facilities, as established by the state’s of Utah Department of Human
Services. Following this review, the Building Official shall determine and
establish the maximum number of persons allowed to reside within the facility.
      (3)   State Department of Human Services license.
         (a)   At the time of application for a conditional use permit to
establish a residential facility for persons with a disability, or within 45
days following approval of a conditional use permit to establish a residential
facility for persons with a disability, the owner or provider shall provide to
the Town Clerk evidence that the facility is licensed by the state’s Department
of Human Services for the type of facility being considered by the town. The
Planning Commission shall condition any conditional use approval on the
presentation of evidence that the facility is licensed by the state’s
Department of Human Services, as required by this section. Failure to provide
such evidence shall be grounds for the town to invalidate any existing or
pending town approvals;
         (b)   Continued compliance with the licensure requirements of the
Department of Human Services; and
         (c)   The responsibility to license programs or owners or providers
that operate residential facility for persons with a disability, as well as
require and monitor the provision of adequate services to consumers residing in
these facilities, shall rest with the state’s Department of Human Services.
      (4)   Conditional use permit to operate a residential facility for
persons with a disability non-transferable.
         (a)   A permit to operate a residential facility for persons with a
disability, as authorized by this section, is non-transferable and shall only
be valid to the owner or provider identified on the application authorizing the
operation of the facility, and as identified as the owner or provider as
licensed by the state’s Department of Human Services, Division of Services for
People with Disabilities.
         (b)   A conditional use permit to operate a residential facility for
persons with a disability terminates if the building is devoted to another use
or if the building fails to comply with any of the standards established
herein.
      (5)   Reasonable accommodations. The Planning Commission shall have the
authority, in reviewing an application for a conditional use permit to
establish and operate a residential facility for persons with a disability, to
modify the requirements contained herein if the Commission determines such
modifications are necessary in order to make a reasonable accommodation to
afford persons residing in such facilities equal opportunity in the use and
enjoyment of the facility.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1013; Ord. 72, passed 11-7-2013; Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021)
§ 153.198 HAZARDOUS WASTE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   These provisions are established for the purpose of prohibiting
commercial facilities constructed for the purpose of importation for treatment,
storage or disposal of hazardous wastes or substances (collectively “commercial
hazardous industry”) within the town and to avoid the potential social, health
and environmental impacts and risks associated with commercial hazardous
industry.
   (B)   Industrial uses involved in the importation for treatment, storage or
disposal of hazardous waste or substances (“commercial hazardous industry”)
either for profit or non-profit purposes shall be prohibited in the town to
ensure the prevention of adverse impacts on the environment, persons, crops,
animals or wildlife. The town prohibits the following activities from occurring
within the municipal boundaries of the town:
      (1)   The processing, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of
fissionable, radioactive, medical or nuclear waste or materials contaminated by
such substances; and
      (2)   The siting of commercial hazardous industries constructed for the
purpose of importation, treatment, storage or disposal of hazardous waste or
hazardous substances and materials.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1014)
§ 153.199 PUBLIC USES AND UTILITIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of providing required public uses and public
utilities in an efficient manner and at locations determined appropriate and
necessary to meet the needs of the town, the following requirements shall apply
to the location and establishment of public uses and utilities, as defined, and
located within the town.
   (B)   The minimum lot size required non-residential uses, as provided by the
Table of Development Standards, shall not apply to public uses and public
utilities, as defined herein, except the Planning Commission in rendering a
final decision on the issuance of a conditional use permit, as authorized by §
153.151 of this chapter, shall:
      (1)   Require the minimum lot size for a public use or public utility to
meet the minimum lot size required of the zoning district in which it is
proposed to be located; or
      (2)   Require a lot size sufficient to ensure all requirements of this
chapter are met, including, but not limited to, all requirements of the Table
of Development Standards, except minimum lot size as may be modified by this
section, and the requirements of §§
153.153 and
153.154 of this chapter are met.
(Ord. 46C, passed 6-23-2005; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-2008, § 1015)
§ 153.200 [RESERVED].
§ 153.201 RECREATIONAL TYPE VEHICLE AS A TEMPORARY DWELLING.
   (A)   Any owner of real property that is located within the town limits or
family member or guest of such owner may occupy as a dwelling an RV located on
such property for a period of not more than 90 days accumulative in any given
calendar year if one of the following conditions is met.
      (1)   The RV has working bathroom facilities properly connected to in-
ground water and sewer which has been installed and inspected pursuant to the
appropriate building permit for said water and sewer as authorized in the
town’s Building Code and in accordance with state law and the provisions of
Southwest Utah Public Health Department.
      (2)   The RV with or without working bathroom facilities is parked within
100 feet of a dwelling located on the property which dwelling has working
bathroom facilities hooked to a septic tank and drain field, and the bathroom
facilities are continuously open and available to the occupant(s) of the RV.
      (3)   The RV has working self-contained bathroom facilities and is parked
or stored on the real property, and is occupied only on an “occasional basis”
not to exceed 90 days cumulatively in any calendar year.
   (B)   In addition to complying with one of the three requirements in
division (A) above, the property owner must additionally comply with all of the
following conditions.
      (1)   If a generator is used for electricity, the generator must not
interfere with the quiet enjoyment of any other property owner.
      (2)   The RV and the surrounding property must be maintained in a manner
that does not violate any local ordinances or state laws relating to health or
nuisance.
      (3)   The RV must be occupied by the property owner, family members or
guests of the owner strictly on a non-commercial basis.
      (4)   The owner has obtained a non-fee permit for said occupancy from the
Town Clerk.
      (5)   Only two non-owner owned RVs may be located on the real property at
any one time.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to authorize private property to be
used as an RV park or trailer park and the sole intent of this amendment is to
allow property owners, their families and guests as described above to use an
RV as a temporary means of inhabiting their property.
   (D)   As an exception to this chapter, any owner of real property may occupy
an RV on the real property for a period of two weeks in any calendar year
without obtaining a permit or complying with the provisions for sewer and water
as required above so long as:
      (1)   The RV does not discharge any effluent onto the owner’s land or
other lands; and
      (2)   The two-week exemption is utilized by the property owners, the
owner’s family or other unpaid guests strictly on a non-commercial basis.
   (E)   All permits will be issued or renewed on an individual basis.
   (F)   (1)   The foregoing does not apply to mobile homes or any other
dwellings occupied as permanent living quarters, all of which are classified as
regulated dwellings.
      (2)   Any trailer of any type or motor coach incapable of locomotion on
demand does not qualify as an “RV” for purposes of this chapter and cannot be
used as a habitable dwelling without first complying with all provisions of the
town ordinances and state law governing the health, safety and habitation of
permanent dwellings.
   (G)   The foregoing does not apply to the exemption granted by §
153.156 of this chapter.
   (H)   A violation of this section constitutes a Class C misdemeanor. This
section is also enforceable civilly by both a claim for injunction and damages.
(Ord. 46D, passed 8-4-2005; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-2008, § 1017)
§ 153.202 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is provided to:
      (1)   Promote and protect the public health, safety and welfare by
regulating the location and size of signs;
      (2)   Protect property values;
      (3)   Enhance and protect the physical appearance of the town;
      (4)   Preserve the scenic and natural beauty and rural atmosphere;
      (5)   Reduce sign clutter and advertising distractions and obstructions;
and
      (6)   Reduce hazards while providing procedures to enable local
businesses to provide advertising.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following signs shall be exempt from the requirements
of this section:
      (1)   Residential identification signs. Provided such signs are not more
than two square feet in area and with any display limited to street numbers,
street name and the name of the resident(s) and provided such sign does not
project beyond the property;
      (2)   Traffic warning and regulation signs. Signs for the purposes of
traffic regulation and direction and the displayed message is solely for
traffic regulation and directional information and is maintained by a public
agency;
      (3)   Church and public organization signs. Provided such signs do not
exceed eight square feet in area. Such signs may include the display of
official notices used by any court or public body or official, or the posting
of notices by any public officer;
      (4)   Window signs. Lighted window signs are limited to no more than two
signs of a maximum of five square feet each with no flashing lights. All
lighted window signs must be turned off at the end of business hours;
      (5)   Election signs. Signs not exceeding two feet by two feet and which
conform to the Utah State Code for distance from any polling place, and which
must be removed within one week following an election. No election signage
shall be placed within, or on, any publicly owned land or right-of-way, and all
election signs must be authorized by the property owner of the lands on which
the election signage is placed;
      (6)   Real estate signs. Signs may be erected to advertise the sale, rent
or lease of property upon which said signs are placed and shall not exceed four
square feet in area. An additional directional sign
not to exceed two square feet is allowed on the nearest public road with the
permission of the property owner when property for sale is not along a public
road;
      (7)   Development promotional signs. One development promotional sign may
be placed on the premises of a subdivision or other land development project
with four or more lots or approved dwelling units. Said promotional sign may
not exceed 16 square feet in area and shall be removed no later than 30 days
following the sale of all lots or units; provided, no development promotional
sign shall be maintained for a period not to exceed two years from the date of
initial installation; and
      (8)   Directory signs. Where group occupancies in office buildings,
commercial buildings or industrial buildings are permitted, directory signs may
be erected displaying the names of occupants of a building who are engaged in a
particular profession, business or industrial pursuit. Each listing shall be no
larger than one square foot of sign area.
   (C)   Allowed signs. The following signs, as defined herein, are allowed in
the town with the approval of the Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator,
as applicable:
      (1)   Free-standing signs;
      (2)   Building signs;
      (3)   Temporary signs; and
      (4)   Directional signs as allowed by division (E) below.
   (D)   Allowed sign standards. The following table identifies the sign
standards and requirements for allowed signs as authorized herein:
Allowed Signs and Sign Standards
Sign Standards Sign Type
               Free-Standing Signs Building Signs Temporary Signs
Allowed Signs and Sign Standards
Sign Standards     Sign Type
                   Free-Standing Signs Building Signs      Temporary Signs
                   Conditional use     Conditional use     Approved as a
Approval procedure approved by         approved by         temporary use by
                   Planning Commission Planning Commission Zoning Administrator
                   No sign shall be    No sign shall be    No sign shall be
                   erected in such a   erected in such a   erected in such a
                   manner to interfere manner to interfere manner to interfere
                   with the use of any with the use of any with the use of any
Fire escapes       fire escape, exit,  fire escape, exit,  fire escape, exit,
                   standpipe or        standpipe or        standpipe or
                   obstruct any        obstruct any        obstruct any
                   stairway, door,     stairway, door,     stairway, door,
                   ventilator or       ventilator or       ventilator or window
                   window              window
                                       Signs must be
                                       located on an
                   All signs located   existing or         Shall not be
                   so no part of the   approved building   attached to fences,
                   sign is within 2    in which the        trees, other natural
Location           feet of the         business is or will features, utility
                   property line and   be operating. The   poles and shall be
                   located so as to be signs must be on a  located outside any
                   outside any clear   wall that is at     clear vision area
                   vision area         least three times
                                       the area of the
                                       proposed sign
                   Allowed as a        Allowed as a
                   permanent sign, if  permanent sign, if  Not to exceed 120
Maximum duration   continued as        continued as        days
                   required by this    required by this
                   chapter             chapter
                                       No portion of a
                                       building sign shall
Maximum height     10 feet             extend above the    8 feet
                                       wall to which it is
                                       attached
Maximum sign area  16 square feet      32 square feet      16 square feet
Number of allowed  1 sign per property 2 per building      1 per site
signs              entrance
                                       Shall not exceed 12
                                       inches (including
Projection         Not applicable      all structural and  Not applicable
                                       other parts) from
                                       the wall
                   All sign lighting   All sign lighting
                   must not cause a    must not cause a
                   disturbance or      disturbance or
                   distraction to      distraction to
                   surrounding         surrounding
                   properties or       properties or
                   traffic and shall   traffic and shall
                   provide necessary   provide necessary
                   shields, shrouds,   shields, shrouds,
Sign lighting      lenses or other     lenses or other     Not allowed
                   devices that        devices that
                   concentrate the     concentrate the
                   illumination only   illumination only
                   upon the sign to    upon the sign to
                   protect the night   protect the night
                   sky and minimize    sky and minimize
                   light trespass to   light trespass to
                   adjoining           adjoining
                   properties          properties
                   No sign shall be    No sign shall be    No sign shall be
                   erected with less   erected with less   erected with less
                   horizontal or       horizontal or       horizontal or
Utility lines      vertical clearance  vertical clearance  vertical clearance
                   than required by    than required by    than required by the
                   the requirements of the requirements of requirements of the
                   the utility owner   the utility owner   utility owner or
                   or provider         or provider         provider
 
   (E)   Directional sign. Notwithstanding division (D) above, one directional
sign location may be allowed at each corner of the intersection of the town’s
two major thoroughfares (i.e., Highway 12 and the Burr Trail), for the purposes
of informing the public of sites and services off Highway 12, accessible from
the Burr Trail, and meeting the following directional sign requirements.
      (1)   The total area of all directional signs allowed at each corner
(directional sign location) shall not exceed 36 square feet.
      (2)   The co-location of directional signs may be allowed, provided the
dimensions of each separate sign does not exceed five feet in length by16
inches in width and the total area of all signs does not exceed 36 square feet
at one directional sign location.
      (3)   No portion of any co-located directional sign shall exceed 16
inches wide by five feet in length.
      (4)   All directional signs shall be complementary to other allowed signs
at the location in material, color, size and style.
      (5)   The town’s Planning Commission must determine that each directional
sign meets all applicable requirements of this chapter prior to being
established.
      (6)   No business, service or other attraction may be listed on more than
one directional sign and may not be listed on more than one co-located
directional sign.
   (F)   Required approval procedures, application requirements for allowed
signs.
      (1)   All permanent free-standing signs and building signs authorized by
this chapter shall be considered a conditional use and shall be considered by
the town’s Planning Commission, as required by §§
153.150 through
153.156 of this chapter, unless the sign is a temporary sign, as provided
herein.
      (2)   All applications for a free-standing sign or a building sign shall
comply with the requirements for a conditional use permit, as applicable, and
as required by §§
153.150 through
153.156 of this chapter. A sign application shall be accompanied by the
necessary application fee and a $10 refundable photograph deposit, as required
by division (G) below.
      (3)   All temporary signs authorized by this chapter shall be considered
a temporary use and shall be considered by the town’s Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   All applications for a conditional use permit or temporary use
permit to establish a sign shall be accompanied by evidence of a valid business
license, as required by the town, and as applicable.
   (G)   Sign design standards, photograph required.
      (1)   All signs allowed by this chapter shall be found to complement the
architectural style and scale of the building and should be designed as an
integral architectural element of the building and site to which it principally
relates. As an architectural element, the sign should reflect the period of
architecture and be in harmony with building character and use.
      (2)   Upon the installation of all free-standing and building signs, the
owner shall provide to the town a photograph of the sign, of a size and quality
sufficient to identify the size, design and color of the installed sign. Upon
receipt of the sign photograph, the town shall refund the photograph deposit to
the applicant. If a sign photograph is not provided to the town within 30 days
of the installation of the sign, the town is authorized to take and have
provided a sign photograph, with the photograph deposit being forfeited by the
applicant and used by the town to defray costs incurred to provide a sign
photograph.
   (H)   Non-conforming signs. All signs which have been made nonconforming by
the adoption of this chapter are subject to the provisions of §§
153.255 through
153.273 of this chapter.
   (I)   Maintenance of signs. No sign shall be erected or altered, except as
provided by this chapter. All signs shall be in a safe well-maintained
condition and shall be free from any hazards, including, but not limited to,
faulty wiring and loose fastenings, and shall not represent a nuisance or pose
threat to the public health, welfare and safety.
   (J)   Sign condition and unsafe signs.
      (1)   All signs, supporting structures or portion thereof approved,
installed and located on any lands within the boundaries of the town shall
continue to be maintained in a safe condition and in accordance with all
requirements and conditions of approval and all other requirements of
applicable town ordinances and requirements.
      (2)   Any sign, supporting structure or portion thereof declared unsafe
by the Town Council shall be restored to a safe condition or removed by the
owner within 30 days following notice provided by the Town Council.
   (K)   Abandonment. Any sign that ceases to be used for the purposes for
which it is permitted for a period of one year shall be deemed to be abandoned
and shall be removed by the owner within 30 days following notice provided by
the Town Council.
   (L)   Acquisition of interests. The town may acquire title to signs by gift,
purchase agreement, exchange or eminent domain, and shall have the right to
amortize nonconforming signs as permitted by state or federal law.
   (M)   Prohibited signs. The following signs, as defined herein, shall be
prohibited within the municipal boundaries of the town:
      (1)   All off-premises signs, including all billboards, but excluding
directional signs as provided by division (E) above;
      (2)   All animated signs and wind signs;
      (3)   Roof signs;
      (4)   Canopy (marquee) signs;
      (5)   Back-lighted signs;
      (6)   Neon signs;
      (7)   All signs that emit sound or other emissions; and
      (8)   All moveable signs, including signs mounted or painted upon
vehicles or trailers which are more or less permanently parked in any location
for the sole purpose of calling attention to or advertising a business.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1018; Ord. 59A, passed - -2012; Ord. 59B, passed - -2012; Ord. 59A,
passed - -2014)
§ 153.203 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Is there a limit on the number of ADUs per primary dwelling? Yes.
There may be only one ADU for each primary dwelling, whether internal or
external.
   (B)   Are there limits on the occupancy of ADUs? Yes.
      (1)   The property owner may occupy either the primary dwelling or the
ADU. ADUs (internal or external) may not be rented for fewer than 30
consecutive days.
      (2)   An ADU may be converted to a short-term rental only via approval of
a CUP for a short-term rental, as provided by §
153.204 and other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Is there a maximum size for ADUs? Due to state law, there are
different answers for external and internal ADUs.
      (1)   EADUs in the GM and LDR zoning districts shall not exceed 1,000
square feet in size.
      (2)   EADUs in the MDR shall not exceed 800 square feet in size.
      (3)   EADUs in the HDR shall not exceed 600 square feet in size.
      (4)   IADUs must fit within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the
time the application for a building permit for the IADU is established.
   (D)   What about the added load an ADU may place on the wastewater system
for the primary dwelling? Due to state law, there are different answers for
external and internal ADUs.
      (1)   The applicant must demonstrate that the existing on-site wastewater
disposal system is adequate to support an EADU or that the existing system will
be upgraded before a certificate of occupancy for the EADU is issued.
      (2)   An IADU may not be established in a primary dwelling that is served
by a failed on-site wastewater system. (Ord. 2018-4, passed 1-3-2019; Ord.
2021-7, passed 12-2-2021)
§ 153.204 RESIDENTIAL SHORT-TERM RENTALS.
   (A)   Defined. RESIDENTIAL SHORT-TERM RENTALS is occupancy of a dwelling on
a single-family legal lot of record by a transient guest(s) renting the
entirety of the dwelling, or any portion thereof, for any period between one to
29 consecutive nights pursuant to a conditional use permit (CUP).
   (B)   Allowed zones. RSTRs are allowed in the HDR Zone, the MDR Zone, the
LDR Zone and the GMU Zone.
   (C)   Ownership, occupancy and residency. To qualify for a CUP under this
chapter, the applicant must be an individual who is a resident of and whose
primary domicile is in the town and who is also the principal owner of the
subject lot for which the CUP is being applied for.
      (1)   To qualify for a CUP hereunder, the owner must comply with the
following:
         (a)   Be a resident of the town and occupy their lot as their fixed,
permanent and principal home and domicile for all legal purposes;
         (b)   Prove said primary residence within the town as defined by the
County Assessor’s primary residency tax classification; and
         (c)   Not be registered to vote in any other jurisdiction.
      (2)   Dwellings eligible for RSTR status fall into two separate
classifications, which are mutually exclusive and only one shall qualify for a
CUP as follows:
         (a)   The primary dwelling or an ADU on the lot comprising the
domicile and residence of the applicant, said lot containing the subject
dwelling(s) shall not be occupied by RSTR guests in excess of 182 days per
year; or
         (b)   A separate lot of record in the town which contains a dwelling
separate and apart from the domicile of a resident-applicant, in which case
said lot does not need to be occupied by the owner- applicant.
      (3)   No owner/resident shall own more than one RSTR property, nor be
entitled to more than one CUP for an RSTR within the town:
         (a)   Owner and ownership is defined as any individual or entity as
shown on the property tax records of the county:
            1.   Where the owner is an entity, be it a corporation,
partnership, LLC, trust, conservatorship or otherwise, the individual who holds
the majority interest in said entity; and
            2.   Other members of the applicant’s household, and other
individuals claiming an ownership interest in the applicant’s entity, shall not
be eligible for a CUP for any other lots in the town, notwithstanding the
provisions of division (C)(2) above; and
         (b)   Only a resident owner, as defined herein, can apply for a CUP.
      (4)   In no event shall more than one of the qualified dwellings in
division (C)(2) above be occupied by RSTR guests on any given day or at any
given time; in no event shall more than one booking of an RSTR guest or group
occupy a subject dwelling in any given time frame. Each guest or group
occupying any qualified RSTR dwelling for any period of time must have reserved
the property and paid for the booking in a single transaction.
   (D)   Limitation on number and type of RSTRs allowed.
      (1)   For purposes of this chapter, the town limits are divided into
Upper Boulder, Middle Boulder and Lower Boulder. Each of these three areas
shall be allowed a maximum number of CUPs under this chapter. That maximum
number shall not exceed 15% of the total number of dwellings occupied by
permanent residents. Lots and dwellings owned by non-residents shall not be
counted. In calculating the number of CUPs available in each of the three
areas, a fractional remainder of one-half or more shall be rounded up to the
next whole number.
      (2)   The CUPs in each area shall be available on a first come basis.
When an area’s quota is reached, a waiting list shall be established, also on a
first come basis.
      (3)   A CUP within each of the three geographical areas. will be issued,
renewed or revoked as follows.
         (a)   Once granted, any RSTR must maintain its CUP in good standing
through strict compliance with the terms of this chapter and the conditions in
the permit.
         (b)   Any CUP that is allowed to lapse shall be placed at the back of
the wait list, if any, and the next applicant in line, if any, will then have
priority.
         (c)   Any CUP that is revoked or not renewed for cause hereunder shall
not automatically be allowed on the wait list or entitled to apply for a new
CUP, except as determined by the Planning Commission in considering all the
circumstances of said revocation or non-renewal.
      (4)   Any lot that has been in use as a legal RSTR over the previous 12
months from the date of enactment of this chapter, and can prove such RSTR
legal usage by providing proof of payment of sales and use tax to the state’s
Tax Commission, together with a sales tax license therefrom in effect for the
same 12-month period, shall be entitled to continue RSTR rental of the lot as a
legal non-complying use, so long as the owner of the lot obtains a CUP and
complies with all the terms and conditions of this chapter, excepting if the
owner of the subject lot and noncomplying use thereon is not a resident of the
town, then:
         (a)   The residency requirements of this chapter shall not apply;
         (b)   Nor shall the owner’s subject lot be counted in the quota system
set forth herein; however;
         (c)   Said owner shall comply with all other provisions this chapter;
and
         (d)   The three geographical areas are described as follows:
            1.   Upper Boulder, beginning at an east-west line through the
south property line of the Boulder Cemetery, said line extending due east and
due west to the town limits on opposite sides, then encompassing and including
all property within the town limits situated to the north of aforesaid east-
west line;
            2.   Lower Boulder, beginning at a point where the Burr Trail
intersects the east boundary of the town limits, then proceeding westerly along
the centerline of the Burr Trail to its junction with State Highway 12, and
then continuing westerly along the centerline of said Highway 12 to a point
where it intersects the west boundary of the town limits, said described line
comprising the north boundary of this Lower Boulder area, and then encompassing
and including all property within the town limits situated to the south of the
aforesaid Burr Trail and Highway 12 centerline; and
            3.   Middle Boulder, all property within the town limits situated
between the south line described above defining Upper Boulder and the north
line described above defining Lower Boulder.
   (E)   Conditional use permit required. The town’s Planning Commission will
consider all applications for said conditional use permits, after the
application has been certified as complete in accordance with this chapter. A
conditional use permit issued under this section is valid for one calendar year
and can only be granted or renewed as specified herein. The application for the
CUP shall contain the following licenses. information and exhibits properly
verified and sworn to by the owner:
      (1)   Name of the owner, the property manager (if different from the
owner) and the address of the lot;
      (2)   How the subject dwelling on the lot will be used and occupied by
RSTR guests:
         (a)   All of the dwelling or part of the dwelling; and
         (b)   A site plan showing the property, dwelling and rooms.
      (3)   Proof that the applicant is a resident as defined in division (C)
(1) above in the form of the property tax notice from the county and proof of
ownership by the applicant;
      (4)   A copy of the guest instructions specified in division (F) below
that will be posted on the premises for guests;
      (5)   A business license and a sales tax number issued or proof of
payment of taxes as follows:
         (a)   For an initial CUP application, the owner shall fill out the
application and present it in accordance with this chapter. If the application
is certified as complete and eligible for being put on the Planning Commission
agenda, the owner shall provide a copy of a state sales tax license and number
together with a town business license before the CUP will be finalized; or
         (b)   For a renewal CUP application, the owner shall provide a copy of
the quarterly sales tax returns filed with the state’s Tax Commission, together
with proof of payment. and a copy of the records of any website host (such as
Vrbo and/or Airbnb) showing the dates that any subject dwelling was occupied by
RSTR guests during the previous 12-month period.
      (6)   One parking space for every two bedrooms, in addition to those
spaces reserved for the owner;
      (7)   A sign at the head of the driveway clearly identifying the name and
address of the subject dwelling or other demarcation to inform guests that they
are at the correct location;
      (8)   Location and number of the following:
         (a)   Smoke detectors;
         (b)   Exits;
         (c)   Fire extinguishers; one must be prominently hung on the wall in
the kitchen within 20 feet of the stove;
      (9)   Proof of a culinary water source and wastewater facilities
compliant with current residential building codes; and
      (10)   To qualify for a CUP under this chapter, any dwelling constructed
after September 11, 1998, must have been granted a valid building permit, be
IBC compliant and otherwise meet the terms of this chapter.
   (F)   Property management. The person designated as the property manager in
the CUP, the owner or a third party (“manager”) shall:
      (1)   Make arrangements for the availability of the keys or codes to the
guests and provide 24-hour contact information for said manager, who will be
available to respond to the guests by telephone within one hour, and in person
within three hours;
      (2)   The manager shall provide the guests with the set of written
instructions, posted visibly within and governing the use of the property,
which shall include:
         (a)   A description and a map of the property boundaries specifying
public roads and public trails as the only areas where walking/hiking or access
to public lands is permitted;
         (b)   A description and a map of surrounding private property where
intrusion is trespass and must be avoided;
         (c)   Guest’s duty to control their dogs and/or other animals, if any,
not leave them unattended, prevent them from roaming, barking or otherwise
creating a nuisance;
         (d)   Location and use of garbage containers and proper disposal;
         (e)   Location of fire extinguishers and exits;
         (f)   If an outdoor fire-pit, barbeque or similar device is available
on the property, any fire restrictions for the area clearly posted, and said
devices shall be safely sited, constructed and clear of weeds, debris and other
flammables to the satisfaction of the local Fire Marshal;
         (g)   Authorized parking spaces(s) designated for guest vehicles;
         (h)   Specified quiet time from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.;
         (i)   Acknowledgment of the town’s dark sky aspirations in the General
Plan and requesting that guests turn off all outside lighting when not needed
and avoid light pollution through windows after retiring for the evening; and
         (j)   Contact numbers for manager (and owner if different) and all
available emergency services.
      (3)   The owner/applicant is responsible for any nuisance created by the
guests, which can constitute grounds for revocation and/or non-renewal of the
CUP.
   (G)   Violation.
      (1)   Violation of this chapter, including providing false information on
an application for the CUP, is a Class C misdemeanor punishable by a fine and/
or civil penalties as authorized by UCA § 10-9a-803.
      (2)   Violation of this chapter or the conditions of the CUP shall be
grounds for termination and/or non-renewal of the CUP.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 5-2-2019)
§ 153.205 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION TOWERS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Requirements for facility permit submissions.
      (1)   A conditional use permit is required. In addition to any other
materials required for a standard permit under this section or any other town
ordinances, all applicants for permits to construct a telecommunications tower
or antenna shall submit visual impact demonstrations using photo simulations of
the proposed facility as it would be seen from residential areas, public rights
of way, and public parks and other sites as deemed appropriate by the Planning
Department.
      (2)   Weight may be given in favor of the application if the applicant is
able to demonstrate a net benefit to the community and its residents for
increased cell service and/or other desirable communications capacities and
capabilities.
   (B)   Location of facilities at or near the center of town, on mesa tops, or
highly visible from scenic corridors such as State Highway 12. Towers and
antennae may be approved at or near the center of town, on mesa tops, and in
designated scenic corridors by special exception and if possible concealed so
as to be substantially invisible. The views of, and vistas from, such areas and
corridors shall not be impaired or diminished by the placement of
telecommunications towers and antennae.
   (C)   Height restrictions.
      (1)   No new telecommunications facility shall exceed 50 feet in height
over ground level directly below. Due to the wide variation in topographical
features and remote locations sited away from town center, residential areas,
and State Highway 12, the Planning Commission has broad discretion in requiring
the applicant to seek out locations and exhaust all reasonable options for
siting the tower in the least impactful locations.
      (2)   Telecommunications facilities that simulate objects that typically
occur in landscapes similar to the proposed location (except billboards,
electrical transmission, or telecommunications towers) may exceed 50 feet in
height if, based on the judgment of the Planning Commission or body issuing the
conditional use permit, it would appear in context on the landscape, is
aesthetically acceptable, and would be a preferable alternative to an
undisguised facility.
      (3)   Telecommunications facilities located atop or within existing
buildings or structures may result in an overall increase in height of the
structure of no more than 10% of the structure’s height without the facility or
the maximum height allowed in the zoning district in which the structure is
located, whichever is less.
   (D)   Co-location.
      (1)   In all applications for construction of a new facility, the
applicant must prove by substantial evidence that a bona fide need exists for
the facility and that no reasonable combination of locations, techniques, or
technologies will obviate the need. The applicant must further prove that it
has made all reasonable efforts to procure antenna space on existing facilities
and that the cost of co-location exceeds the cost of a new facility by at least
50%.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a permit for a new tower, the applicant
shall demonstrate commitment to joint use as follows:
         (a)   The applicant requesting the permit shall submit evidence to the
town demonstrating that a genuine effort has been made to solicit additional
users for the proposed new tower. Evidence of this shall include, at a minimum,
copies of notices sent by registered mail, return receipt requested, to all
other providers of cellular and wireless communications services within
Garfield County and adjacent counties, advising of the intent to construct a
new tower, identifying the location, inviting the joint use and sharing of
costs, and requesting a written response within 15 business days.
         (b)   The applicant shall sign an instrument, maintained by the town,
agreeing to encourage and promote the joint use of telecommunications towers
within the town and, to that extent, committing that there shall be no
unreasonable act or omission that would have the effect of excluding,
obstructing or delaying joint use of any tower where fair and just market
reasonable compensation is offered for such use.
   (E)   Setback. No new tower shall be constructed without a setback from the
tower’s base of at least one and one-half times the tower height to a public or
private road and at least two and one-half times the tower height to the
nearest property line.
   (F)   Equipment shelters. No equipment shed for a telecommunications
facility shall exceed 750 square feet in area nor 12 feet in height. All such
sheds shall be screened with vegetation or other aesthetically pleasing
materials. Furthermore, all such sheds shall be secured with approved fencing
and a locked gate if deemed necessary by the Planning Commission.
   (G)   Signs, lighting and noise. No commercial messages nor any other signs
beyond safety warnings and an identification sign of not greater than four
square feet shall be placed on any tower or facility, nor placed higher than
five feet above ground level. No lighting, or devices emitting noise, shall be
placed or maintained on the tower or facility in a manner visible or audible
offsite.
   (H)   Electronic emissions and electromagnetic radiation.
      (1)   Prior to commencing regular operation of the facility, all facility
owners and operators must submit a certificate of compliance with all current
Federal Communications Commission regulations concerning electromagnetic
radiation and other electronic emissions applicable to the facility.
      (2)   All facility operators and owners must sign an agreement, to be
maintained by the town, agreeing to bring facilities into compliance with any
new federal, state, or local laws or regulations concerning electromagnetic
radiation and other electronic emissions applicable to the facility within 120
days of the effective date of the regulations.
   (I)   Removal of facilities. The owner of a facility shall establish a
$10,000 cash security fund or provide the town with an irrevocable letter of
credit in the same amount to secure the cost of removing an antenna, antenna
array, or tower that has been abandoned. In the event of a transfer of
ownership, the seller shall be responsible for notifying the buyer of this
requirement and for notifying the town of the transfer.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 9-3-2020)
BUILDING CODES AND PERMITS
§ 153.215 PURPOSE.
   The adoption and enforcement of building codes for all construction and uses
located within the municipal boundaries of the town, as adopted by the town,
serves the public interest by providing for structural stability, fire
resistance, adequate ventilation and other safety and sanitary features.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1101)
§ 153.216 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Construction of any building, or any part thereof, shall not be
commenced until:
       (1)   A project permit has been signed by the Zoning Administrator and
issued by the town certifying compliance with the ordinances and, excepting
where said project is deemed exempt by the Zoning Administrator under §
153.220; or
      (2)   A building permit is obtained from the Garfield County Building
Department in compliance with the International Building Code (IBC) and all
other health, building, and construction codes adopted by the state.
   (B)   (1)   Applicants for a building permit shall submit building plans and
a site plan complying with the requirements of the International Building Code
(IBC), all other codes and this chapter prior to obtaining issuance of a
building permit.
      (2)   The applicant for a building permit shall proceed only in
accordance with the approved building permit.
   (C)   Prior to issuance of a building permit, the applicant may be required
to post a bond or provide other financial security in such form and sum as
required by the Zoning Administrator, and approved by the Town Attorney, with
sufficient surety running to the town to offset any costs or expenses
associated with construction activities on and off the site.
   (D)   For any construction exempt from the requirement for a building
permit, as allowed by state law or this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall
issue a project permit and may require the submission of information and
materials that may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of
this chapter and state law.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1102; Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-5-2020)
§ 153.217 BUILDING CODE COMPLIANCE.
   All structures requiring a building permit shall comply with the
requirements of all building codes, as adopted by the town.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1103)
§ 153.218 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS PRIOR TO COMPLETION AND ACCEPTANCE OF
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Building permits may be issued prior to the completion and acceptance
by the town of the required public improvements; provided, however, no building
permit may be issued until adequate financial assurances have been provided for
completion of such improvements, as approved by the Town Council and Town
Attorney.
   (B)   In such cases, the Building Official shall require the applicant for a
building permit to sign a statement indicating the following:
      (1)   The applicant is aware of the terms of the bond or escrow account
established to guarantee completion of required improvements to the
satisfaction of the town;
      (2)   The applicant releases the town from all liability for the
installation, maintenance, or repair of the required improvements until the
same have been completed and accepted by the town; and
      (3)   The applicant assumes all risk in connection with construction on
the subject property.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1104)
§ 153.219 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy shall be required before any structure or
premises, or part thereof, may be used or occupied, unless waived by the Zoning
Administrator as part of a completed project permit.
   (B)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued permitting the use or
occupation of any such structure or premises unless and until:
      (1)   If a building permit is required, all construction has been
completed, as authorized;
      (2)   If no building permit is required, the use conforms to this chapter
and all other applicable statutes, ordinances and regulations; and
      (3)   Payment of all applicable fees, charges and other requirements have
been made and all conditions for the establishment of the use or structure have
been met.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1105; Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-5-2020)
§ 153.220 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following properties, uses and structures shall, to the extent provided
by law, be exempt from the provisions of this chapter requiring a building
permit, however, said exempt structures and improvements shall nonetheless
first obtain a project permit from the town as required in §
153.215. No structure shall be exempt hereunder that is a dwelling intended for
human habitation. The building permit exemptions are:
   (A)   Properties owned and operated by the state or the federal government.
Where state or federal law requires that the agency take steps to comply with
all applicable local regulations, this exemption shall not be construed to
abrogate that requirement;
   (B)   Agricultural buildings to the extent exempted by the provisions of UCA
§ 58-56-4 and the town ordinances, that do not require electrical, plumbing,
septic or mechanical systems;
   (C)   Structures of 200 square feet or less that do not require electrical,
plumbing, septic or mechanical systems (Examples are coops, storage sheds,
playhouses, and similar uses and structures);
   (D)   Temporary structures such as hoop houses (greenhouses), metal storage
containers, yurts and similar structures not requiring permanent foundations or
support structures, electrical, plumbing, septic or mechanical systems; and
   (E)   Remodels that do not require alterations to support structures,
electrical, plumbing, septic or mechanical systems.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1106; Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-5-2020)
§ 153.221 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violation of this subchapter, including providing false information on
an application for a project permit or a building permit, is a Class C
misdemeanor punishable by a fine and/or civil penalties as authorized by UCA §
10-9a-803.
   (B)   Subsequently changing the use of an exempt structure to accommodate
human habitation without first complying with this chapter, by the applicant or
any subsequent occupant of the property or structure, is a Class C misdemeanor
as specified above.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-5-2020)
SENSITIVE LANDS, HILLSIDE AND MESA TOPS PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 153.235 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The Sensitive Lands, Hillside and Mesa Tops Overlay Protection
District shall apply to all lands identified to be sensitive by this
subchapter. This district identifies additional development requirements for
areas identified as sensitive lands, hillside and mesa top areas. The uses
allowed by the underlying or base zoning district shall still apply, except
that no commercial uses shall be permitted.
   (B)   The purpose of the Sensitive Lands, Hillside, and Mesa Tops Protection
Overlay District is to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of the town and to protect the unique visual and environmental
character of all sensitive lands, hillside and mesa top areas by establishing
procedures for the development of these areas. These procedures are intended
to:
      (1)   Minimize adverse soils and slope instability;
      (2)   Decrease the potential for erosion;
      (3)   Reduce the adverse effects of grading, cut and fill operations;
      (4)   Prevent visual intrusions on hillsides and mesa tops and preserve
visually significant areas;
      (5)   Preserve the natural character of sensitive lands, hillsides and
mesa tops and preserve the most visually significant hillsides and mesa tops in
their natural state;
      (6)   Require the location and design of building which provide for
safety and enjoyment while recognizing the existing development constraints;
      (7)   Minimize the effects of grading, scarring and erosion effects of
cutting, filling and other development activities; and
      (8)   Encourage development that is sensitive to the value and amenities
of these areas.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1201; Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021)
§ 153.236 SENSITIVE LANDS, HILLSIDE AND MESA TOP AREAS.
   The Sensitive Lands, Hillside and Mesa Tops Overlay District shall apply to
the following areas within the town:
   (A)   Areas of slope exceeding 15% average grade;
   (B)   Flood channels as identified by a federal or state agency;
   (C)   Jurisdictional wetlands as identified by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers; and
   (D)   Hillside and mesa top areas identified on the Hillside and Mesa Top
Consideration Map, dated 2-4-2000, and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1202)
§ 153.237 DEVELOPMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   All sensitive lands, hillsides and mesa tops shall be preserved and
retained in a natural state. All development proposed on mesa tops shall be
sited in a manner so as not to create a silhouette against the skyline.
   (B)   No development shall be permitted on any land:
      (1)   Identified as having slope exceeding 30% average grade;
      (2)   Flood channels as identified by a federal or state agency; and
      (3)   Jurisdictional wetlands as identified by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1203)
§ 153.238 DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall visually intrude into the
ridgelines of a mesa top. For the purposes of this chapter and this section,
VISUAL INTRUSION shall mean being visible from any point six feet high located
on Utah State Highway 12 from the Utah Department of Transportation Road Shed
north to the town boundaries and any point six feet high located on the Lower
Boulder Road and within the boundaries of the town. Mesa top areas shall be
those areas identified on the Hillside and Mesa Top Consideration Map, dated 2-
4-2000, and incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to excavate or grade any area within the
Sensitive Lands, Hillside and Mesa Tops Overlay District prior to final
approval by the approving officer or body. In addition to the penalties
outlined in this chapter, the town may enter legal proceedings to require any
person who violates this subchapter to return a site to its condition prior to
any disturbance.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1204)
§ 153.239 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the application requirements identified by this chapter, the
following information and materials shall be provided for all areas identified
as:
   (A)   Areas of slope exceeding 15% average grade;
   (B)   Flood channels as identified by a federal or state agency;
   (C)   Jurisdictional wetlands as identified by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers; and
   (D)   Hillside and mesa top areas identified on the Hillside and Mesa Top
Consideration Map, dated 2-4-2000, and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1205)
§ 153.240 REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   Proposed grading plan. A grading plan, prepared by a licensed
engineer, and identifying the existing and proposed finished grades at contour
intervals not exceeding two feet of the development site and adjoining property
for a minimum of 100 feet outside all boundary lines of the development site.
   (B)   Drainage plan. A drainage plan, prepared by a licensed engineer,
identifying all surface and subsurface drainage systems and facilities, walls,
curbing or other erosion protection devices to be constructed in connection
with or as part of the proposed work, together with a map showing the drainage
area and estimated run-off of the area to be served by any drainage systems or
facilities.
   (C)   Facilities plan.
      (1)   This plan, prepared by a licensed engineer, shall show any existing
and proposed buildings or structures, easements, drainage channels and all
proposed utilities with their location on the site.
      (2)   In addition, the location of any buildings or structures on
adjacent property which may be affected by grading operations shall be shown.
   (D)   Soils report. A soils report, prepared by a licensed geotechnical
engineer and identifying the following:
      (1)   Slope stability analysis: conclusions and recommendations
concerning the effects of material removal, introduction of water, ground
shaking and erosion potentials;
      (2)   Foundation investigation: conclusions and recommendations
concerning the effects of soil conditions on foundation and structural
stability, including bearing capacity, shear strength and shrink-swell
potential of soils on the site;
      (3)   The location and yield of springs and seeps on the site, evaluation
of soil permeability for septic systems if proposed; and
      (4)   Conclusions and recommendations regarding means to increase safety
during and after construction and means to minimize any adverse effects to the
development of the site.
   (E)   Geology report. A geology report, prepared by a licensed geotechnical
engineer, identifying the following:
      (1)   Location and size of the subject area and its general setting,
noting any wetlands, drainage areas, areas subject to high ground water,
aquifers, shale units and poorly consolidated materials;
      (2)   The presence of any surface or subsurface hazards including
potential for rock falls and toppling failures in cliffs, slopes and overhangs,
and fault line; and
      (3)   Conclusions and recommendations regarding the effect of geologic
conditions on the proposed development site and recommendations identifying the
means proposed to minimize any hazard to life or property, or any adverse
impact on the natural environment.
   (F)   Vegetation report. A vegetation plan, prepared by a licensed landscape
architect, including a plan for the protection of any existing vegetation, any
proposed re-vegetation of the site or modifications to existing vegetation and
a plan for the preservation of existing vegetation during construction
activities.
   (G)   Other reports.
      (1)   Other reports deemed necessary by the officer or body charged with
the approval of a requested use to assure the health, safety and welfare of the
project residents or public may be requested from the applicant by written
specification.
      (2)   Such reports shall be submitted with the other applications
materials.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1206)
§ 153.241 BONDING.
   The approving officer or body may require the applicant to post a bond,
approved by the Town Attorney and sufficient to ensure the development is
completed according to approved plans.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1207)
NON-CONFORMING USES, NON-COMPLYING STRUCTURES
AND OTHER NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 153.255 PURPOSE.
   The following provisions are provided to establish procedures for
determining the existence of a legal non-conforming use, a legal non-complying
structure or other legal non-conformity, including non- complying lots and
signs, and other matters relating to legal non-conforming uses, legal non-
complying structures and other legal non-complying structures and activities.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1301)
§ 153.256 LEGAL NON-CONFORMING USES OR NON-COMPLYING STRUCTURES MAY BE
CONTINUED.
   (A)   A legal non-conforming use or legal non-complying structure, as
determined by the provisions of this chapter, may be continued by the present
or a future property owner.
   (B)   A legal non-conforming use may be extended through the same building;
provided, no structural alteration of the building is proposed or made for the
purpose of the extension.
   (C)   For purposes of this chapter, the addition of a solar energy device to
a building is not a structural alteration.
   (D)   The town shall not prohibit the reconstruction or restoration of a
non-complying structure or terminate the non-conforming use of a structure that
is involuntarily destroyed in whole or in part due to fire or other calamity
unless the structure or use has been abandoned.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1302)
§ 153.257 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   As provided for by the Act, the BOA is hereby authorized as the land
use authority to review and render a decision determining the existence of a
legal non-conforming use, a legal non-complying structure or other legal non-
conformity.
   (B)   The BOA is hereby authorized as the land use authority to review and
render a decision concerning any disputes relating to the abandonment of
structures associated with a non-conforming use or non-complying structure.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1303)
§ 153.258 INITIATION.
   All requests for a determination of the existence of a legal non-conforming
use, legal non-complying structure or other legal non-conformity shall be
initiated by filing the necessary application in the office of the Town Clerk.
A property owner may present an application for review and decision by the BOA.
An agent of the property owner, or a lessee of the property, may present an
application for a determination of the existence of a legal non-conforming use,
legal non-complying structure or other legal non-conformity for review and
decision; provided, such application is accompanied by a property owner
affidavit of authorization.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1304)
§ 153.259 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS; DETERMINATION OF APPLICATION COMPLETENESS
REQUIRED.
   All applications for a determination of the existence of a legal non-
conforming use, legal non- complying structure or other legal non-conformity,
as applicable, are required to comply with all requirements of this subchapter
and this chapter. All applications for a determination of the existence of a
legal non-conforming use, legal non-complying structure or other legal non-
conformity shall be determined complete by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1305)
§ 153.260 BURDEN OF PROOF WITH THE PROPERTY OWNER.
   As provided by the Act, the property owner shall have the burden of
establishing the legal existence of a non-conforming use, non-complying
structure or other non-conformity.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1306)
§ 153.261 DETERMINATION OF EXISTENCE OF A LEGAL NON-CONFORMING USE, LEGAL NON-
COMPLYING STRUCTURE OR OTHER LEGAL NON-CONFORMITY APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All determination of existence of a legal non-conforming use, legal non-
complying structure or other legal non-conformity applications shall include
and provide the following information:
   (A)   A complete determination of a legal non-conforming use, legal non-
complying structure or other legal non-conformity application, available from
the office of the Town Clerk;
   (B)   Determination of a legal non-conforming use, legal non-complying
structure or other legal non- conformity application fees, as established by
the Council; and
   (C)   Other information, as may be determined necessary by the applicant(s),
to clearly establish the existence of a legal non-conforming use, non-complying
structure, lot, sign or other non-conformity on the date of adoption of this
chapter, or prior enactments thereof, and compliance with all requirements of
this subchapter and this chapter, and compliance with all requirements of prior
enactments thereof.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1307)
§ 153.262 APPROVAL STANDARDS FOR A DETERMINATION OF THE EXISTENCE OF A LEGAL
NON-CONFORMING USE, LEGAL NON-COMPLYING STRUCTURE OR OTHER LEGAL NON-CONFORMITY
APPLICATION BY THE BOA.
   The BOA shall review the application and determine if the application, from
the materials presented by the applicant, the existence of a legal non-
conforming use, legal non-complying structure or other legal non-conformity,
complies with the following:
   (A)   The use, structure or other non-conformity is not an allowed use,
structure or other activity allowed within the zoning district; and
   (B)   From the evidence presented by the applicant, who shall have the
burden of establishing the legal existence of the non-conforming use, non-
complying structure or other non-conformity, as provided by the Act, that
sufficient information, documentation and other materials have been presented
by the applicant to clearly establish that the use, structure or other non-
conformity, which is the subject of the application, legally existed on the
date of adoption of this chapter and complied with all prior enactments of this
chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1308)
§ 153.263 REQUIRED FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF A DETERMINATION OF THE
EXISTENCE OF A LEGAL NON-CONFORMING USE, LEGAL NON- COMPLYING STRUCTURE OR
OTHER LEGAL NON-CONFORMITY APPLICATION BY THE BOA.
   (A)   If the BOA finds that the use, structure or other non-conformity,
which is the subject of the application, legally existed on the date of
adoption of this chapter, as adopted, and all other land use ordinances and
requirements, as applicable, and complied with all prior enactments thereof,
the application shall be approved. Following the approval by the BOA of a
determination of the existence of a legal non-conforming use, legal non-
complying structure or other legal non-conformity application, the applicant
may apply for other necessary approvals, licenses or permits as may be
applicable and authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   If the BOA finds that the use, structure or other non-conformity which
is the subject of the application did not legally exist on the date of adoption
of this chapter, as adopted, and all other land use ordinances and
requirements, as applicable, and did not comply with all prior enactments
thereof, the application shall be denied and no other approvals, licenses or
permits shall be approved that are related to the use, structure or other non-
conformity.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1309)
§ 153.264 EFFECT OF APPROVAL OF AN APPLICATION FOR A DETERMINATION OF THE
EXISTENCE OF A LEGAL NON-CONFORMING USE, LEGAL NON-COMPLYING STRUCTURE OR OTHER
LEGAL NON-CONFORMITY.
   (A)   A finding by the BOA of the existence of a legal non-complying use,
non-complying structure, lot, sign or other non-conformity shall not authorize
the establishment, restoration, reconstruction, extension, alteration,
expansion or substitution of any non-conforming use, non-complying structure,
lot, sign or other non-conformity.
   (B)   Following a decision by the BOA, the BOA Recording Secretary shall
provide the applicant with a written notice of the decision. The written record
of all applications shall be maintained on file by the Town Clerk.
   (C)   A finding by the BOA of the existence of a legal non-complying use,
non-complying structure, lot, sign or other non-conformity shall not be deemed
an approval of any other application, permit or license.
   (D)   A finding by the BOA of the existence of a legal non-complying use,
non-complying structure, lot, sign or other non-conformity shall allow the
filing of an application for any necessary approval, permit or license, as may
be required by this chapter, as adopted, and all other land use ordinances and
requirements, as applicable.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1310)
§ 153.265 REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Following a determination by the BOA of the existence of a legal non-
conforming use, the use shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   As provided by the Act, a legal non-conforming use may be continued by
the present or future property owner.
   (B)   As provided by the Act, a legal non-conforming use may be extended
through the same building; provided, no structural alteration of the building
is proposed or made for the purposes of the extension. As provided by the Act,
for the purposes of this section, the addition of a solar energy device to a
building is not a structural alteration.
   (C)   Necessary maintenance and repairs may be made to a structure housing a
legal non-conforming use by following the procedures for any approval, permit
or license, including the issuance of a building permit, for such maintenance
and repairs, as required by this chapter, as adopted, and all other land use
ordinances and requirements, as applicable.
   (D)   As provided by the Act, the town may require the termination of a
legal non-conforming use by providing a formula establishing a reasonable time
period during which the owner can recover or amortize the amount of his or her
investment in the non-conforming use.
   (E)   As provided by the Act, the town may not terminate a legal non-
conforming use of a structure that is involuntarily destroyed in whole or in
part due to fire or other calamity unless the use has been abandoned.
   (F)   As provided by the Act, a legal non-conforming use of a structure
shall terminate if:
      (1)   The structure is allowed to deteriorate to a condition that the
structure is rendered uninhabitable and is not repaired or restored within six
months after written notice is provided to the property owner, by the Zoning
Administrator, that the structure is uninhabitable and that the non- conforming
use will be lost if the structure is not repaired or restored within six
months; or
      (2)   The property owner has voluntarily demolished a majority of the
building that houses the non-conforming use.
   (G)   A legal non-conforming use may only be changed to a use allowed in the
Table of Uses for the zoning district in which the property is located, by
following the approval procedures for such use, as required by this chapter, as
adopted, and all other land use ordinances and requirements, as applicable.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1311)
§ 153.266 REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-COMPLYING STRUCTURES.
   Following a determination by the BOA of the existence of a legal non-
complying structure, the structure shall comply with the following
requirements.
   (A)   As provided by the Act, a legal non-complying structure may be
continued by the present or future property owner.
   (B)   As provided by the Act, the town may not prohibit the reconstruction
or restoration of a legal non-complying structure that is involuntarily
destroyed in whole or in part due to fire or other calamity unless the
structure has been abandoned.
   (C)   Necessary maintenance and repairs may be made to a legal non-complying
structure by following the procedures for any approval, permit or license,
including the issuance of a building permit, for such maintenance and repairs,
as required by this chapter, as adopted, and all other land use ordinances and
requirements, as applicable.
   (D)   As provided by the Act, a legal non-complying structure shall
terminate if:
      (1)   The structure is allowed to deteriorate to a condition that the
structure is rendered uninhabitable and is not repaired or restored within six
months after written notice is provided to the property owner, by the Zoning
Administrator, that the structure is uninhabitable and that the non- complying
structure will be lost if the structure is not repaired or restored within six
months; or
      (2)   The property owner has voluntarily demolished a majority of the
non-complying structure.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1312)
§ 153.267 REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-COMPLYING LOTS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to legal undeveloped non-complying lots or
parcels.
   (B)   A legal lot of record or any parcel of record legally existing on the
date of adoption of this chapter shall be eligible for a building permit
authorizing the construction of one single-family dwelling, complying with the
provisions of this chapter, as adopted, and all other land use ordinances and
requirements, as applicable, even though such lot or parcel may not conform to
the requirements of the zoning district in which the legal non-complying lot or
parcel is located; provided:
      (1)   Such lot or parcel of land is located in a zoning district that
allows single-family dwellings; and
      (2)   The proposed construction can qualify for the issuance of a
building permit for a single-family dwelling, as required by the Building Codes
as adopted.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1313)
§ 153.268 REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-COMPLYING SIGNS.
   This section shall apply to signs that were legal on the date of adoption of
this chapter, but which may now be a non-complying structure.
   (A)   A legal non-complying sign shall not be enlarged.
   (B)   A legal non-complying sign shall not be moved or replaced, except to
bring the sign into compliance with this chapter, as adopted, and all other
land use ordinances and requirements, as applicable.
   (C)   The text message of a legal non-complying sign may be changed if such
changes do not create any new non-conformities or other non-compliance.
   (D)   A legal non-complying sign shall be considered abandoned if it
advertises a business, service, commodity or other activity that has been
discontinued for a minimum period of one year.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1314)
§ 153.269 TERMINATION OF A NON-CONFORMING USE BY THE TOWN PERMITTED; REASONABLE
AMORTIZATION PERIOD REQUIRED.
   As provided by the Act, the town may terminate a non-conforming use, except
billboards, by providing a formula establishing a reasonable time period during
which the owner can recover or amortize the amount of his or her investment in
the non-conforming use, if any.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1315)
§ 153.270 TERMINATION OF A NON-CONFORMING USE DUE TO ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   As required by the Act, any party claiming a legal non-conforming use
has been abandoned shall have the burden of establishing the abandonment.
   (B)   Abandonment may be presumed to have occurred if:
      (1)   A majority of the primary structure associated with the non-
conforming use has been voluntarily demolished without prior written agreement
with the town regarding an extension of the non-conforming use;
      (2)   The use has been discontinued for a minimum period of one year; or
      (3)   The primary building associated with the non-conforming use remains
vacant for a minimum period of one year.
   (C)   (1)   The property owner may rebut the presumption of abandonment
under this section and shall have the burden of establishing that any claimed
abandonment under this section has not in fact occurred.
      (2)   The BOA shall have authority to review and decide all disputes
relating to abandonment of structures associated with a non-conforming use,
non-complying structure or other non-conformity.
   (D)   The town may terminate the non-conforming use status of a school
district or charter school use or structure when the property associated with
the school district or charter school use or structure ceases to be used for
school district or charter school purposes for a minimum period of one year.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1316)
§ 153.271 DETERMINATION OF A LEGAL NON-CONFORMING USE, LEGAL NON- COMPLYING
STRUCTURE, OTHER LEGAL NON-CONFORMITY APPLICATIONS BY THE BOA TO BE ON FILE.
   The Town Clerk shall maintain all determinations of a legal non-conforming
use, legal non-complying structure or other legal non-conformity applications
on file.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1317)
§ 153.272 REVOCATION OF A DETERMINATION OF A LEGAL NON-CONFORMING USE, LEGAL
NON-COMPLYING STRUCTURE, OTHER LEGAL NON-CONFORMITY APPLICATIONS.
   The approval of a determination of a legal non-conforming use, legal non-
complying structure or other legal non-conformity application by the BOA shall
be revoked by the BOA if the BOA finds that the approval was obtained in a
fraudulent manner.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1318)
§ 153.273 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the BOA related to a non-conforming
use, non-complying structure or other non-conformity may appeal the decision to
District Court, as provided by Act, and as provided herein.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1319)
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 153.285 PURPOSE.
   These provisions are designed to facilitate and manage the moving of
buildings and structures within the town and to establish necessary
requirements for the moving of buildings and structures.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1401)
§ 153.286 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   An application for the moving of buildings shall be made by filing an
application for a building permit with the town.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1402)
§ 153.287 APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An application for the moving of buildings shall be reviewed and
approved by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   In considering the request for the moving of buildings, the Planning
Commission shall consider the following, among other items, and find:
      (1)   The building will have no material negative effect on the
surrounding area and property values in the area to which the building is to be
moved;
      (2)   The building is in conformity with the type and quality of the
buildings existing in the area to which the building is to be moved;
      (3)   The building and the property on which the building is proposed to
be located complies fully with all the provisions of this chapter and all
applicable building codes;
      (4)   The building and its proposed location does not adversely affect
existing buildings, uses or property in the area; and
      (5)   All approvals, dedications and improvements required by the town
are provided in conformity with the standards of this chapter and all other
ordinances.
   (C)   Upon finding of compliance with this chapter and the adopted Building
Code, and any other items deemed necessary, the Planning Commission may approve
the application for the moving of buildings.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1403)
§ 153.288 PERMITS AND GUARANTEES REQUIRED.
   Before building permits can be issued, and as a condition of approval of the
application for the moving of buildings, the Planning Commission may require
the applicant to post a bond as determined necessary to adequately cover the
installation of all improvements required by the town.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1404)
§ 153.289 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Prior to the issuance of any certificate of occupancy, the Building Official
will ensure that the building complies with all requirements of the Planning
Commission in authorizing the moving of the building and the International
Building Code (IBC) and all other codes.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1405)
§ 153.290 RESTORATION OF OLD SITE.
   When the site to be vacated by the moving building or structure is located
within the town, the Planning Commission may require a bond for all costs to
restore the vacated site to a safe and sightly condition.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1406)
VARIANCES
§ 153.305 GENERAL.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment (BOA), as provided by UCA §§ 10-9-703 et seq.,
as amended, is hereby authorized to consider applications for variances, as
defined.
   (B)   Where the BOA finds that an unreasonable hardship may result from
strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the BOA may approve
variances to the development requirements of this chapter so that substantial
justice may be done and the public interest secured; provided that, the
variance shall not have the effect of nullifying in any way the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1501)
§ 153.306 USE VARIANCE PROHIBITED.
   The BOA may not authorize the establishment of a use other than those
identified in the Table of Uses.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1502)
§ 153.307 STANDARDS.
   The BOA shall not approve a variance unless, based upon the evidence
presented, it finds that all of the following apply:
   (A)   Literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter would cause an
unreasonable hardship for the applicant and the applicant has demonstrated that
the hardship is located on, or associated with the property for which the
variance is sought, and is peculiar to the property rather than conditions
general to the immediate area;
   (B)   The identified hardship is not self-imposed;
   (C)   The identified hardship is not economic in nature;
   (D)   There exist special circumstances attached to the property that do not
apply to other properties in the same zoning district;
   (E)   The variance is essential to the enjoyment of a property right
possessed by other property in the same zoning district; or
   (F)   The granting of the variance will not be contrary to the public
interest.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1503)
§ 153.308 CONDITIONS.
   In approving any variance, the BOA may require such conditions, in the
judgment of the BOA, necessary to mitigate any negative effects of granting the
variance and to secure the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1504)
§ 153.309 EFFECT OF GRANTING A VARIANCE.
   The granting of a variance shall not authorize the establishment or
extension of any use, nor the development, construction, reconstruction,
alteration or moving of any building or structure, but is a prerequisite to the
preparation, filing, review and determination of any approval, permit or
license that may be required by this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1505)
§ 153.310 TIME LIMITATION.
   No variance shall be valid for a period of longer than six months unless a
building permit is issued within that period.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1506)
§ 153.311 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   An application for a variance may be submitted on the application provided
by the town.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1507)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.325 ENFORCEMENT; PROCEDURES AND DUTIES.
   (A)   This chapter may be enforced by the town by all appropriate means
authorized by state law and town ordinances including, but not limited to,
injunctive relief, fines, withholding of building permits and revocation of
development approvals, permits and licenses.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission
and/or Town Council to enforce these requirements and to bring to the attention
of the Town Attorney any violations of this chapter.
   (C)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot subdivided or sold in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances, nor shall the town have any obligation to
issue certificates of occupancy or to extend facilities or services to any
parcel created in violation of this chapter or Ch. 152 of this code of
ordinances.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1601)
§ 153.326 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken by the town in law or in
equity to prevent any violation of this chapter, to prevent unlawful
construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct or abate a violation,
and to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1602)
§ 153.327 RECONSIDERATION/REVOCATION OF APPROVALS, PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   An approved development application, permit or license may be reconsidered
and revoked by the town if it is determined that the application, decision,
permit or license was based on inaccurate or incomplete information.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1603)
§ 153.328 REVOCATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General. If the Zoning Administrator, Building Official, Planning
Commission or Town Council determines that there exists reasonable grounds for
revocation of a development permit or license authorized by this chapter, a
public hearing shall be set before the approving body.
   (B)   Notice and public hearing. At least 14 days’ notice of a proceeding to
reconsider or revoke the development permit or license shall be given to the
applicant.
   (C)   Required findings. The approving body may revoke the development
approval, permit or license upon making one or more of the following findings:
      (1)   The development permit was issued based on erroneous or misleading
information or misrepresentation; and/or
      (2)   The terms or conditions of approval of the permit relating to
establishment or operation of the use, building or structure have been violated
or that other laws or regulations of the town applicable to the development
have been violated.
   (D)   Decision and notice. Within 21 days of the conclusion of the public
hearing, the approving body shall render a decision and shall notify the holder
of the permit or license of the decision, and any other person who has filed a
written request for such notice.
   (E)   Effect.
      (1)   A decision to revoke a development permit or license shall become
final five days after the date notice of the decision was given.
      (2)   After the effective date, all activities pursuant to such permit
shall be deemed in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1604)
REVIEW OF CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES
§ 153.340 POLICY CONSIDERATIONS; PURPOSE.
   (A)   There is a policy of the town, favoring the careful consideration of
matters involving constitutional taking claims, in fairness to the owner of
private property bringing the claim, and in view of the uncertainty and expense
involved in defending lawsuits alleging such issues.
   (B)   At the same time, the legitimate role of the town in lawfully
regulating real property must be preserved and the public’s right to require
the dedication or exaction of property consistent with the Constitution.
   (C)   Consistent with this policy, this subchapter establishes a procedure
for the review of actions that may involve the issue of constitutional takings,
as well as providing guidelines for such considerations.
   (D)   This chapter is further intended and shall be construed to objectively
and fairly review claims by citizens that a specific government action should
require payment of just compensation, while preserving the ability of the town
to lawfully regulate real property and fulfill its duties and functions.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1701)
§ 153.341 GUIDELINES ADVISORY.
   The guidelines adopted and decisions rendered pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter are advisory only, and shall not be construed to expand or limit
the scope of the town’s liability for a constitutional taking.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1702)
§ 153.342 REVIEW OF FINAL TOWN DECISION; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a
constitutional taking of private real property by an action of the town shall
request a review of a final decision of the town.
   (B)   The following are specific procedures established for such review:
      (1)   The person requesting a review must have obtained a final and
authoritative determination from the town;
      (2)   Within 30 days from the date of the town’s final determination that
gave rise to the concern that a constitutional taking may have occurred, the
person requesting the review shall file in writing, in the office of the Town
Clerk, a request for review of that decision. A copy shall also be filed with
the Town Attorney;
      (3)   The Town Council, or designee of the Town Council, shall
immediately set a time to review the decision that gave rise to the
constitutional takings claim;
      (4)   In addition to the written request for review, the applicant must
submit the following information:
         (a)   Name of the applicant requesting review;
         (b)   Name and business address of current owner of the property, form
of ownership, whether sole proprietorship, for-profit or not-for-profit
corporation, partnership, joint venture or other and, if owned by a
corporation, partnership or joint venture, name and address of all principal
shareholders or partners;
         (c)   A detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there
has been a constitutional taking;
         (d)   A description of the property taken;
         (e)   Evidence and documentation as to the value of the property
taken, including the date and cost at the date the property was acquired. This
should include any evidence of the value of the property before and after the
alleged constitutional taking, the name of the party from whom purchased, if
applicable, including the relationship, if any, between the person requesting a
review and the party from whom the property was acquired;
         (f)   The nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected,
such as, but not limited to, fee simple ownership, leasehold interest;
         (g)   Terms (including sale price) or any previous purchase or sale of
a full or partial interest in the property in the three years prior to the date
of application;
         (h)   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose,
including financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the
three years prior to the date of application;
         (i)   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes paid on the property
for the previous three years;
         (j)   All information concerning current mortgages or other loans
secured by the property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current
interest rate, remaining loan balance and term of the loan and other
significant provisions, including, but not limited to, right of purchasers to
assume the loan;
         (k)   All listings of the property for sale or rent, prices asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous three years;
         (l)   All studies commissioned by the applicant or agents of the
applicant within the previous three years concerning feasibility of development
or utilization of the property;
         (m)   Itemized income and expense statements from the property for the
previous three years;
         (n)   Information from a title policy or other source showing all
recorded liens or encumbrances affecting the property; and
         (o)   The Town Council, or its designee, may request additional
information identified to be necessary, in its opinion, to arrive at a
conclusion concerning whether there has been a constitutional taking.
      (5)   An application shall not be deemed to be “complete” until the Town
Council, or its designee, certifies to the applicant that all the materials and
information required above have been received by the town. The Town Council, or
its designee, shall notify the applicant of any missing information and
identifying the materials and information necessary to correct the incomplete
application;
      (6)   The Town Council, or its designee, shall hear all the evidence
related to and submitted by the applicant and the town;
      (7)   A final decision on a review of a constitutional takings claim
shall be rendered within 14 days from the date the complete application for
review has been received by the Town Clerk. The decision of the Town Council,
or its designee, regarding the results of the review shall be given in writing
to the applicant and the officer, employee, board or commission that rendered
the final decision that gave rise to the constitutional takings claim; and
      (8)   If the Town Council, or its designee, fails to hear and decide the
review within 14 days, the decision appealed from shall be presumed to be
approved and the constitutional takings claim denied by the Town Council, or
its designee.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1703)
§ 153.343 REVIEWING GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The Town Council, or its designee, shall review the facts and
information presented by the applicant to determine whether the action by the
town constitutes a constitutional taking as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   In doing so, it shall consider:
      (1)   Whether the physical taking or exaction of the private real
property bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest;
      (2)   Whether a legitimate governmental interest exists for the action
taken by the town; and
      (3)   Is the property and exaction taken roughly proportionate and
reasonably related both in nature and in extent to the impact caused by the
activities that are the subject of the decision being reviewed.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1704)
§ 153.344 RESULTS OF REVIEW.
   After completing the review, the Town Council, or its designee, shall make a
determination regarding the above issues and, where determined to be necessary
and appropriate, shall make a recommendation to the officer, employee, board or
commission that made the decision that gave rise to the constitutional takings
claim.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1705)
APPEAL AUTHORITIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 153.355 PURPOSE.
   As required by the Act, this subchapter is provided to allow the applicant,
a board, or officer of the town, or any other person who believes they are
adversely affected by a decision of a land use authority to appeal the decision
to an appeal authority, as identified by this subchapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1801)
§ 153.356 APPEAL AUTHORITIES.
   As provided by the Act, and to provide for appeals of decisions of the
town’s land use authorities administering or interpreting the land use
ordinances, including this chapter, the following appeal authorities, with
their respective appeal responsibilities, are hereby identified.
   (A)   District Court.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Council in enacting or
administering this chapter, or the town’s other land use ordinances, may file a
petition with District Court, as provided by this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the BOA in administering this
chapter may file a petition with the District Court, as provided by this
chapter.
   (B)   Council. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Commission in
administering this chapter may file an appeal with the Council.
   (C)   Commission. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning
Administrator in administering or interpreting this chapter, or the town’s
other land use ordinances, may file an appeal with the Commission.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1802)
§ 153.357 MAXIMUM TIME ALLOWED TO FILE APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person, including the applicant for any land approval required by
this chapter, and any board or officer of the town, aggrieved by a decision of
a land use authority’s decision administering or interpreting this chapter, or
the town’s land use ordinances may, within ten days of the decision, appeal
that decision to the appeal authority identified by §
153.356 of this chapter, except as may be further provided by divisions (B) and
(C) below.
   (B)   Any person, including the applicant for any approval required by this
chapter, or the town’s other land use ordinances, and any board or officer of
the town, aggrieved by a decision of the Council, acting as a land use
authority, may file a petition for the review of the Council’s decision with
the District Court within 30 calendar days after the decision is final, as
provided by §§
153.365 and
153.366 of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person, including the applicant for any approval required by this
chapter, or the town’s other land use ordinances, and any board or officer of
the town, aggrieved by a decision of an appeal authority may file a petition
for review of the decision with the District Court within 30 calendar days
after the decision is final, as provided by §§
153.365 and
153.366 of this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1803)
§ 153.358 REQUIREMENTS FOR AN APPEAL.
   (A)   An appeal petition of a land use authority’s decision made under the
authority of this chapter, or the town’s other land use ordinances, shall
clearly identify the alleged error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the land use authority in the administration or
interpretation of this chapter, or the town’s other land use ordinances.
   (B)   Only those decisions in which a land use authority has applied the
requirements of this chapter, or the town’s other land use ordinances to a
particular application, person, lot or parcel may be appealed to an appeal
authority.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1804)
§ 153.359 CONDITION PRECEDENT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW, APPEAL AUTHORITY DUTIES.
   (A)   As required by the Act, and as a condition precedent to judicial
review, each adversely affected person shall timely and specifically challenge
a land use authority’s decision, in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   An appeal authority shall:
      (1)   Act in a quasi-judicial manner;
      (2)   Serve as the final arbiter of issues involving the interpretation
or application of this chapter, and the town’s other land use ordinances; and
      (3)   May not entertain an appeal of a matter in which the appeal
authority, or any participating member, had first acted as the land use
authority.
   (C)   As provided by the Act, an adversely affected party shall present
every theory of relief to the appeal authority that it can raise in District
Court.
   (D)   As required by the Act, an appeal authority shall not require an
adversely affected party to pursue duplicate or successive appeals before it,
or another appeal authority, as a condition of the adversely affected party’
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1805)
§ 153.360 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An appeal petition or application for an appeal, of a land use
authority’s decision shall be made on the appeal application, available from
the Town Clerk.
   (B)   An appeal application shall be determined complete by the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1806)
§ 153.361 MEETINGS, RECORDS AND ACTION OF AN APPEAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Each appeal authority, as identified herein shall:
      (1)   Notify each of its members of any meeting or hearing;
      (2)   Provide each of its members with the same information and access to
town resources as any other member;
      (3)   Convene only if a quorum of its members is present; and
      (4)   Act only upon the vote of a majority of its convened members.
   (B)   After an appeal petition is determined complete by the Town Clerk, as
provided herein, the Zoning Administrator shall coordinate with the appeal
authority to schedule the hearing of the appeal. The Zoning Administrator shall
transmit to the appeal authority all materials constituting the full and
complete record of the decision of the land use authority.
   (C)   Following a written decision by the appeal authority, as provided by §
153.365 of this chapter, the appeal authority shall provide the applicant with
a copy of the written decision.
   (D)   A record of the decisions of the appeal authority shall be maintained
in the office of the Town Clerk, which shall constitute the official record of
the appeal authority.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1807)
§ 153.362 DUE PROCESS.
   (A)   Each appeal authority, identified by this chapter, shall conduct each
appeal hearing, as provided herein.
   (B)   Each appeal authority, identified herein, shall respect the due
process rights of each of the participants.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1808)
§ 153.363 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   Any person bringing an appeal and alleging an error of a land use
authority’s decision administering or interpreting this chapter or the town’s
other land use ordinances has the burden of proof that the land use authority
erred.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1809)
§ 153.364 STANDARD OF REVIEW FOR APPEALS.
   (A)   Each appeal authority identified by this chapter shall hear and review
all appeal matters “on the record,” including the review of all factual
matters. Each appeal authority shall only consider those materials presented
and originally before the land use authority in making the decision that is the
subject of the appeal.
   (B)   The appeal authority shall determine the correctness of a decision of
the land use authority in its interpretation and application of this chapter,
and the town’s other land use ordinances.
   (C)   Only those decisions in which a land use authority has applied the
requirements of this chapter, or the town’s other land use ordinances to a
particular application, person, lot or parcel may be appealed to an appeal
authority.
   (D)   An appeal application shall not be used to waive, modify or amend any
requirement, provision or term of this chapter, or the town’s other land use
ordinances.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1810)
§ 153.365 FINAL DECISION.
   A decision of each appeal authority, as identified herein, shall take effect
on the date when the appeal authority, as applicable, issues a written
decision.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1811)
§ 153.366 DISTRICT COURT REVIEW.
   (A)   Required time for filing.
      (1)   No person may challenge in District Court a decision of a land use
authority until that person has exhausted all administrative remedies as
provided by this chapter and received a final decision from the appeal
authority, as provided by §
153.365 of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person adversely affected by a final decision made in the
exercise of, or in violation of, the provisions of this chapter may file an
appeal petition for review of the decision with the District Court within 30
calendar days after the decision is final.
      (3)   An appeal petition is barred unless it is filed within 30 calendar
days after the appeal authority’s decision is final.
   (B)   Tolling of time.
      (1)   The required time for filing for District Court review shall be
tolled from the date that a person files a request for arbitration of a
constitutional taking issue with the property rights ombudsman, as provided by
UCA § 63-34-13, as amended, until 30 calendar days after:
         (a)   The arbitrator issues a final award; or
         (b)   The property rights ombudsman issues a written statement under
UCA § 63-34-13(4)(b), as amended, declining to arbitrate or to appoint an
arbitrator.
      (2)   A tolling under this section operates only as to the specific
constitutional taking issue that is the subject of the request for arbitration
filed with the property rights ombudsman by a property owner.
      (3)   A request for arbitration filed with the property rights ombudsman
after the time under division (B)(1) above to file an appeal petition has
expired does not affect the time to file an appeal petition.
   (C)   Standards governing court review.
      (1)   The District Court shall:
         (a)   Presume that a decision, ordinance or regulation made under the
authority of this chapter, or the town’s other land use ordinances, and the
Act, is valid; and
         (b)   Determine only whether the decision, ordinance or regulation is
arbitrary, capricious or illegal.
      (2)   A decision, ordinance or regulation of the Council involving the
exercise of legislative discretion is valid if the decision, ordinance or
regulation is reasonably debatable and not illegal.
      (3)   A decision of a land use authority or an appeal authority involving
the exercise of administrative discretion is valid if the decision is supported
by substantial evidence in the record and is not arbitrary, capricious or
illegal.
      (4)   A determination of illegality requires a determination that the
decision, ordinance or regulation violates a law, statute or ordinance in
effect at the time the decision was made or the ordinance or regulation
adopted.
      (5)   The time requirements for the filing of an appeal petition with
District Court, as provided by this chapter apply from the date on which the
land use authority takes final action on a land use application for any
adversely affected third party, if the land use authority conformed with the
notice provisions of this chapter, as applicable, or for any person who had
actual notice of the pending decision.
      (6)   If the town has complied with the notice requirements, as provided
by this chapter, a challenge to the enactment of this chapter may not be filed
with the District Court more than 30 calendar days after the enactment.
   (D)   Appeal authority; review on the record.
      (1)   The Council, acting as a land use authority, or appeal authority,
as the case may be, shall transmit to District Court the record of its
proceedings, including its minutes, findings, orders and, if available, a true
and correct transcript of its proceedings.
         (a)   If the proceeding was tape-recorded, a transcript of that tape
recording is a true and correct transcript for purposes of this section.
         (b)   If there is a record, the District Court’s review is limited to
the record provided by the land use authority, or appeal authority, as the case
may be.
      (2)   The court may not accept or consider any evidence outside the
record of the land use authority or appeal authority, as the case may be,
unless that evidence was offered to the land use authority or appeal authority,
respectively, and the court determines that it was improperly excluded.
      (3)   If there is no record, the court may call witnesses and take
evidence.
      (4)   The filing of a petition does not stay the decision of the land use
authority, or appeal authority, as the case may be.
   (E)   Staying of decision.
      (1)   Before filing a petition under this chapter, or a request for
mediation or arbitration of a constitutional taking issue under UCA § 63-34-13,
as amended, the aggrieved party may petition the appeal authority to stay its
decision.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a petition to stay, the appeal authority may order
its decision stayed pending District Court review if the appeal authority finds
it to be in the best interest of the town.
      (3)   After a petition is filed under this chapter, or a request for
mediation or arbitration of a constitutional taking issue is filed under UCA §
63-34-13, as amended, the petitioner may seek an injunction staying the appeal
authority’s decision.
FIGURE 7: APPEAL AUTHORITIES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dcd2ca184d432a104519a6480f753abd8e9d15ed/
IMAGES/0-0-0-46.png]
 
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1812)
PUBLIC NOTICE AND APPLICANT NOTICING REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.380 PURPOSE.
   As required and provided by the Act, the town is required to provide notice
of all public hearings and public meetings for adoption or modification of this
chapter and when an application required by this chapter is considered by the
Commission or Council. The notice requirements of the town for public hearings
and public meetings and required applicant notice regarding matters required by
this chapter are provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1901)
§ 153.381 REQUIRED NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS AND PUBLIC MEETINGS TO CONSIDER
GENERAL PLAN OR GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Public hearings. The Town Clerk shall provide notice of each public
hearing to consider the adoption or any modification of the General Plan, as
presented by a General Plan amendment application, as follows:
      (1)   Notice of the date, time and place of each public hearing, at least
ten calendar days before the public hearing, which notice shall be:
         (a)   Mailed to each "affected entity" as defined herein and the Act;
and
         (b)   Posted in at least three public locations within the town or on
the town's official website.
      (2)   Notice of the date, time and place of each public hearing shall be
mailed at least ten calendar days before the public hearing to each applicant
for a General Plan amendment application, as required by the Act; and
      (3)   Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the
application at least three business days before the public hearing.
   (B)   Public meetings. The Town Clerk for public meetings before the Council
and the Planning Commission Secretary for public hearings before the Commission
shall provide notice of each public meeting to consider the adoption or any
modification of the General Plan, as presented by a General Plan amendment
application, as follows:
      (1)   Notice of the date, time and place of each public meeting, at least
24 hours before the meeting, which notice shall be:
         (a)   Published in a newspaper of general circulation within the town;
and
         (b)   Posted in at least three public locations within the town or on
the town’s official website.
      (2)   Notice of the date, time and place of each public meeting shall be
provided at least 24 hours before the meeting to each applicant for a General
Plan amendment application, as required by the Act; and
      (3)   Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the
application at least three business days before the public meeting.
   (C)   Notice of final action. The Town Clerk shall notify the applicant of
any final action taken by the Council for any application related to the
adoption or any modification of the Boulder Town General Plan.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1902; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
§ 153.382 REQUIRED NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS AND PUBLIC MEETINGS TO CONSIDER
THE ADOPTION OR ANY MODIFICATIONS OF LAND USE ORDINANCES, INCLUDING THIS
CHAPTER, ZONING DISTRICTS MAP, OTHER OFFICIAL MAPS AND NOTICE OF FINAL ACTION.
   (A)   Public hearings. The Town Clerk shall provide notice of each public
hearing to consider the adoption or any modification of a land use ordinance,
including this chapter, Zoning Districts Map or other official map, as
presented by a land use ordinance amendment application, zoning districts map
amendment application or official map amendment application as follows:
      (1)   Notice of the date, time and place of each public hearing, at least
ten calendar days before the public hearing, which notice shall be:
         (a)   Mailed to each "affected entity" as defined herein and the Act;
and
         (b)   Posted in at least three public locations within the town, or on
the town's official website.
      (2)   Notice of the date, time, and place of each public hearing shall be
mailed at least ten calendar days before the public hearing to each applicant
for a land use ordinance amendment application, including an amendment to this
chapter, zoning districts map amendment application or official map amendment
application, as required by the Act; and
      (3)   Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the
application at least three business days before the public hearing.
   (B)   Public meetings. The Town Clerk for public meetings before the Council
and the Planning Commission Secretary for public hearings before the Commission
shall provide notice of each public meeting to consider the adoption or any
modification of a land use ordinance, including this chapter, zoning districts
map or other official map, as presented by a land use ordinance amendment
application, zoning districts map amendment application or official map
amendment application as follows:
      (1)   Notice of the date, time and place of each public meeting, at least
24 hours before the meeting, which notice shall be:
         (a)   Published in a newspaper of general circulation within the town;
and
         (b)   Posted in at least three public locations within the town or on
the town’s official website.
      (2)   Notice of the date, time and place of each public meeting shall be
provided at least 24 hours before the meeting to each applicant for a land use
ordinance amendment application, including an amendment to this chapter, zoning
districts map amendment application or official map amendment application, as
required by the Act; and
      (3)   Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the
application at least three business days before the public meeting.
   (C)   Notice of final action. The Town Clerk shall notify the applicant of
any final action taken by the Council for any application related to the
adoption or any modification of to each applicant for a land use ordinance
amendment application, including an amendment to this chapter, zoning districts
map amendment application or official map amendment application.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1903; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
§ 153.383 REQUIRED NOTICE FOR OTHER PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   When required by the provisions of this chapter for a land use application,
the Town Clerk shall provide notice of each public hearing as follows:
   (A)   Notice of the date, time and place of each public hearing, at least
ten calendar days before the public hearing, which notice shall be posted in at
least three public locations within the town or on the town's official website.
   (B)   Notice of the date, time and place of each public hearing shall be
mailed at least ten calendar days before the public hearing to each applicant;
   (C)   Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the
application at least three business days before the public hearing; and
   (D)   The Town Clerk shall notify the applicant of any final action taken by
the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, or Council for any land use
application.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1904; Ord. 2023-1, passed 12-7-2023)
§ 153.384 REQUIRED NOTICE FOR OTHER PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   When required by the provisions of this chapter for a land use application,
the Town Clerk for public meetings before the Council and the Planning
Commission Secretary for public meetings before the Commission, shall provide
notice of each public meeting as follows:
   (A)   Notice of the date, time and place of each public meeting, at least 24
hours before the public meeting, which notice shall be posted in at least three
public locations within the town or on the town’s official website;
   (B)   Notice of the date, time and place of each public meeting shall be
provided at least 24 hours before the meeting to each applicant for a land use
application;
   (C)   Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the
application at least three business days before the public meeting; and
   (D)   The Town Clerk shall notify the applicant of any final action taken by
the Council for any application related to the adoption or any modification of
a land use ordinance amendment application, including an amendment to this
chapter, zoning districts map amendment application or official map amendment
application.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1905)
§ 153.385 NOTICE CHALLENGE.
   If notice given under authority of this chapter, and the authorities of the
Act, is not challenged within 30 calendar days after the meeting(s), or action
for which notice is given, as required by the Act, the notice is considered
adequate and proper.
(Ord. 46, passed 8-28-2001; Ord. 21D, passed 1-7-2004; Ord. 59, passed 5-8-
2008, § 1906)
HOME BUSINESSES
§ 153.400 HOME BUSINESSES.
   This subchapter provides detailed standards for the review of proposed home
businesses. The Planning Commission shall approve any application for a CUP for
a proposed home business that complies with the standards of this subchapter
and other requirements of this chapter. Compliance means that the proposal
meets all absolute standards of this subchapter and has a cumulative score of
zero or better on the relative standards. Compliance review will be conducted
using the checklist that is located in §
153.401.
   (A)   Must the owner of a home business be in residence? Yes. The proposed
home business must be owned and operated by a current resident of the dwelling
in which it is proposed. The right to continue the home business ends if its
owner is no longer in residence.
   (B)   Must home businesses comply with the dimensional requirements of §
153.119? At a minimum, yes, but the Planning Commission may reject an
application for a CUP for a home business where it finds that the existing
setbacks are not deep enough to mitigate potential impacts of the proposed home
business.
   (C)   How much indoor space can be used for a home business? That depends on
its location. The indoor space that can be used for a home business is limited
as follows:
      (1)   A maximum of one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet will be
permitted in the C and GMU zoning districts.
      (2)   A maximum of seven hundred fifty (750) square feet will be
permitted in the residential zoning districts.
   Applicants must demonstrate compliance with this standard by submitting a
scaled floor plan of the dwelling or accessory structure that clearly
delineates the area that will be used for the home business.
   (D)   Can a home business have outdoor workspace or store materials
outdoors? Possibly. Proposed outdoor workspaces and/or the outdoor storage of
materials, supplies, equipment, vehicles, or goods for sale associated with a
home business will be evaluated using the following standards.
      (1)   They must fall within the setbacks required by §
153.119 of this chapter, but the Planning Commission may condition approval of
outdoor workspaces or storage associated with a home business on the provision
of setbacks deeper than those established by §
153.119 if it finds that a greater distance from property lines or public ways
is necessary to mitigate the potential impacts of the proposed home business.
      (2)   The effective buffering or screening of outdoor workspaces or
storage associated with home businesses is encouraged. Compliance with this
relative standard will be determined by the Planning Commission using the
scoring range and weights adopted on the home business checklist.
   Applicants must demonstrate compliance with this standard by submitting a
scaled site plan that clearly delineates any outdoor space that would be used
for the proposed home business. This drawing must show the required setbacks
and any proposed buffers or screening. Where it is proposed to use existing
vegetation as a buffer, photographs of that existing vegetation must be
submitted. Where the buffer or screening will be installed, a planting plan
and/or screening design must be submitted.
   (E)   Are there restrictions on parking or traffic generation by home
businesses? Potentially. Home businesses that are reasonably expected to
generate parking or traffic congestion along town roads or that have the
potential to obstruct access to other properties are discouraged. The potential
for congestion will be determined by the Planning Commission using the scoring
range and weight adopted on the home business checklist. Among other things,
the Planning Commission may consider parking and traffic generated by
deliveries, the possibility that the proposed home business will offer classes
or stage events, and whether the home is within the Sensitive Lands, Hillside,
and Mesa Tops Overlay Protection District where access to a home business may
be restricted by the terrain.
   (F)   Must a home business provide parking? Potentially.
      (1)   Off-street parking must be provided as required by §
153.120 of this chapter. Note: this rate may be zero.
      (2)   Where more than one additional off-street parking space is
provided, effective buffering or screening of that off-street parking is
encouraged. Compliance with this relative standard will be determined by the
Planning Commission using the scoring range and weights adopted on the home
business checklist.
   (G)   Are there restrictions on potential nuisances generated by home
businesses? Yes.
      (1)   No home business shall require an NPDES permit, as required by
state law.
      (2)   No home business shall require an air quality permit, as required
by state law.
      (3)   The storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials by home
businesses shall be permitted only to the extent allowed for residential
occupancies by NFPA 1, the 2006 Uniform Fire Code.
      (4)   No home business shall result in additional outdoor lighting.
      (5)   No home business shall result in blowing dust or smoke that
adversely affects adjoining properties or public ways.
      (6)   No home business shall result in radiant heat or glare from welding
equipment or other sources of intense heat or light that adversely affect
adjoining properties.
      (7)   No home business shall generate sound that adversely affects
adjoining properties.
   (H)   Must a home business make proper provision for solid waste storage and
disposal? Of course. All applications for CUPs for home businesses shall show
how any solid waste generated by the proposed home business will be properly
stored and disposed of. The Planning Commission may reject an application for a
CUP for a home business upon finding that it will generate a type and/or
quantity of solid waste that is not compatible with neighboring residences.
   (I)   Can a home business have a sign? Yes. Home businesses may display a
single sign of no more than four (4) square feet in size. This may be a
freestanding, hanging, projecting, or wall sign. The application for a permit
to establish a home business must be accompanied by scaled drawings that show
the placement of the sign on the property and/or structure and the dimensions
of the sign.
   (J)   Can vehicles associated with a home business be parked on residential
premises?
      (1)   Only vehicles of ten thousand (10,000) pounds gross vehicle weight
or less can be parked overnight in residential zoning districts. Overnight
parking of a larger vehicle is not a permitted part of a home business.
      (2)   Where the home business involves the service or repair of vehicles,
no more than two (2) vehicles waiting for or undergoing service or repair may
be on the premises at any time.
   (K)   Can the operating hours of home businesses be restricted? Yes. The
Planning Commission may condition the approval of a home business on limited
operating hours.
   (L)   How will compliance with these standards be ensured? A certificate of
occupancy is required for all home businesses. No such certificate shall be
issued until all site improvements (landscaping, screening, parking, etc.)
required for compliance with any of the standards adopted here are in place. A
CUP for a home business is subject to revocation, as provided in Chapter 8 of
this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021)
§ 153.401 HOME BUSINESS STANDARDS REVIEW WORKSHEET:
Home Business Standards Review Worksheet -  Review of Project #______
Standard  ABSOLUTE RELATIVE WEIGHT POINT   NR Complies Fails Points Points X
                                    RANGE                            Weight
Home Business Standards Review Worksheet -              Review of Project #______
                                                 POINT                           Points
Standard               ABSOLUTE RELATIVE WEIGHT RANGE  NR Complies Fails Points X
                                                                                 Weight
1. Occupant             T        Continuing compliance             
in Residence                     with these standards
2.                               is required. This
Dimensional  Table 2    T        includes continuing               
Requirements                     maintenance of
3.a. Indoor                      buffering, screening,
Space: C,    1500 SF    T        parking spaces and                
GMU                              other improvements
3.b. Indoor                      required for
Space: LDR,  750 SF     T        compliance.                       
MDR, HDR
4.a. Outdoor                     deeper setbacks may
Activity:    Table 2    T        be required                       
Setbacks
4.b. Outdoor buffer/                             (-2/
Activity:    screen              T        2      +2)                            
Buffer
4.b. Outdoor buffer/                             (-2/
Activity:    screen              T        3      +2)                            
LDR
4.b. Outdoor buffer/                             (-2/
Activity:    screen              T        4      +2)                            
MDR
4.b. Outdoor buffer/                             (-2/
Activity:    screen              T        4      +2)                            
HDR
5. Parking/                                      (-2/
Traffic                          T        4      0)                
Generation
6.a. Parking Table 3    T                                          
Spaces
6.b. Buffer/ buffer/                             (-2/
Screen       screen              T        3      +2)                            
Parking
7.a.
Nuisances:   state      T                                                       
NPDES
7.b.
Nuisances:   state      T                                          
Air Quality
7.c.
Nuisances:   fire code  T                                          
HazMat
7.d.
Nuisances:   no         T                                          
Outdoor      additional
Lighting
7.e.
Nuisances:              T                                          
Dust, Smoke
7.e.
Nuisances;              T                                          
Glare, Heat
7.g..
Nuisances:              T                                          
Noise
8. Solid                T
Waste
9. Signs     4 SF       T
10.a
Commercial   10,000 GVW T
Vehicle
10.b.
Vehicle      2 only     T
Service/
Repair
11.
Operating               T
Hours
To receive a CUP, projects must comply with ALL absolute standards  sum of
and have a cumulative score of zero or more on the relative         scores >      
standards.
                              number of absolute standards with
                                 which project fails to comply >
 
(Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021)
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 153.415 COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   This chapter provides detailed standards with which potentially compatible
commercial uses must comply to receive a conditional use permit (CUP). The
Planning Commission shall approve any application for a CUP that complies with
these standards. Compliance means that the proposal meets all absolute
standards of this chapter and has a cumulative score of zero or better on the
relative standards. Compliance with the relative standards adopted here will be
determined by the Planning Commission using the scoring range and weights
adopted on the commercial use checklist that is located in §
153.416.
   (A)   Are there locational constraints on commercial development in Boulder?
Yes. Commercial development is confined to parcels from which there is direct
access to Utah Highway 12.
   (B)   Are there environmental constraints on commercial development in
Boulder? Yes.
      (1)   There shall be no commercial development on sensitive lands, as
defined in §§
153.185 et seq., or within the Sensitive Lands, Hillside, and Mesa Tops Overlay
District established by §§
153.235 et seq.
      (2)   Commercial development must provide a vegetated buffer along all
watercourses, permanent and intermittent, including irrigation works and
wetlands. Where feasible, the buffer along a watercourse shall include the
entire riparian or wetland area and an additional upland buffer of at least
twenty five feet (25'). Where the Planning Commission finds that it is not
feasible to include the entire riparian or wetland area, the minimum buffer
along a watercourse or around a wetland, shall be fifty feet (50'). The minimum
buffer along an irrigation ditch shall be determined in consultation with the
owner of the ditch. Irrigation works may, with permission of the owner, be
moved underground.
      (3)   Commercial development is encouraged to avoid slopes of fifteen
percent (15%) to thirty percent (30%).
      (4)   An exception may be made to allow utilities and pedestrian trails,
or, where the Planning Commission finds that no other vehicular access is
feasible, an access drive to cross watercourses and their buffers or moderate
slopes. Where a crossing is permitted, it shall take the shortest feasible
route and disturb the minimum area necessary for its safe functioning.
      (5)   The siting and design of commercial buildings and outdoor spaces is
encouraged to preserve views and make use of the site's natural and cultural
features.
   (C)   Must existing vegetation be retained during construction and occupancy
of a commercial development? In some cases.
      (1)   The removal of existing perennial vegetation, particularly trees,
that provides buffering, shade, and/or other functions is discouraged.
      (2)   All vegetation preserved in compliance with these standards shall
be protected during construction, including clearly marking the permitted
limits of grading and, where necessary, the installation of tree wells or other
barriers.
   (D)   Must commercial development manage its storm water runoff? Yes.
      (1)   All development must comply with Utah's Storm Water Management
Program.
      (2)   The Town prefers that runoff be absorbed as near its point of
origin as possible. Curb and gutter will not ordinarily be permitted, but the
Planning Commission may approve an exception where the use of curb and gutter
clearly results in more effective storm water management.
   (E)   Must commercial development provide utilities and access in accord
with Town standards? Yes.
      (1)   Utilities must be provided as required by §§
153.185 et seq. and Utah law.
      (2)   UDOT approval is required for access to Highway 12.
      (3)   Points of access (driveways) to town or county roads shall have a
minimum width of twenty two feet (22') and meet all applicable state and county
standards.
      (4)   Undergrounding of utilities is encouraged.
   (F)   Must commercial development comply with the dimensional requirements
of §
153.119? At a minimum, yes. The Planning Commission may, however, condition
approval of a commercial use on the provision of setbacks deeper than those
established by §
153.119 where it finds that a greater distance from property lines or public
ways is necessary to mitigate potential impacts of the proposed commercial use.
   (G)   Is the scale of proposed commercial uses directly limited? Yes.
      (1)   Commercial uses for which more than fifteen (15) total parking
spaces would be required by §
153.120 are prohibited in the LDR.
      (2)   Commercial uses for which more fifty (50) total parking spaces
would be required by §
153.120 are prohibited in the GMU.
      (3)   Where there is a dwelling on a parcel that has a commercial use,
the parking associated with that dwelling may be in addition to what is
permitted for the commercial use.
      (4)   Land use intensity - as measured by the floor area ratio and lot
coverage - is encouraged to be compatible with that on neighboring properties.
   (H)   Can a commercial use have outdoor workspace or store materials
outdoors? Potentially. Outdoor workspaces and the outdoor storage of materials,
supplies, equipment, vehicles, or will be evaluated using the following
standards.
      (1)   At a minimum, outdoor workspace and storage must fall within the
setbacks required by §
153.119. Deeper setbacks may be required for compliance with division (F),
above.
      (2)   The effective buffering or screening of outdoor workspaces or
storage is encouraged. The lack of irrigation water to support effective
landscaping is a valid reason for a finding that a proposed commercial use
fails to comply with this standard.
      (3)   Outdoor workspaces and/or storage must not occupy required parking
spaces.
   (I)   Can a commercial use have outdoor sales space? Potentially. Outdoor
sales spaces will be evaluated using the following standards.
      (1)   Outdoor sales areas must fall within the setbacks required by §
153.119. Deeper setbacks may be required for compliance with division (F),
above.
      (2)   Outdoor sales areas may not occupy more than ten percent (10%) of
the parcel's street frontage up to a maximum of forty feet (40').
      (3)   The landscaping of outdoor sales spaces is encouraged. The lack of
irrigation water to support effective landscaping is a valid reason for a
finding that a proposed commercial use fails to comply with this standard.
      (4)   Outdoor sales must not occupy required parking spaces.
   (J)   Are there limits on parking or traffic generation for commercial
development? Potentially.
      (1)   Commercial uses that are reasonably expected to generate parking or
traffic congestion along town roads or Highway 12, or that have the potential
to obstruct access to other properties are discouraged prohibited. The
potential for congestion will be determined by the Planning Commission using
the scoring range and weight adopted on the commercial use checklist. Among
other things, In making a finding that there will be parking or traffic
congestion, the Planning Commission may consider parking and traffic generated
by deliveries and the possibility that the proposed commercial use will offer
classes or stage events. The Commission may table consideration of an
application pending completion, at the applicant's expense, of a traffic study
by qualified professionals.
      (2)   Approval of a CUP may be conditioned on the installation of
improvements that will fully mitigate reasonably expected congestion. Such
improvements shall be made at the developer's expense.
   (K)   Must a commercial use provide off-street parking? Yes, as required by
the following standards.
      (1)   Off-street parking must be provided at the rate set by §
153.120.
      (2)   Excessive off-street parking is prohibited. This means that a use
may provide no more than four parking spaces more than the minimum set by §
153.120.
      (3)   Uses that are intended or reasonably expected to serve the
traveling public, specifically including, but not limited to, lodging and
restaurants, must provide at least one off-street parking space that is
suitable for recreational vehicles plus one additional recreational vehicle
parking space for every ten (10) spaces that use is required to provide. No
additional recreational vehicle parking space must be provided where fewer than
ten (10) spaces are required.
      (4)   Off-street parking is not permitted within the front setbacks
established by §
153.119.
      (5)   Off-street parking is discouraged from occupying more than sixty
percent (60%) of the frontage of a commercial development (for corner lots, the
frontage along the busiest street).
      (6)   Effective buffering or screening of off-street parking areas is
encouraged.
      (7)   Provision of internal landscaping within off-street parking areas
that include ten (10) or more spaces is encouraged.
   (L)   Are commercial uses encouraged to moderate their visual impact, as
seen from the road? They are. The long axis of commercial buildings is
encouraged to be perpendicular rather than parallel to the road (for buildings
on a corner lot, perpendicular to the busiest road). See also division (T)(3).
   (M)   Must commercial uses make proper provision for solid waste storage and
disposal? Of course.
         (1)   All applications for CUPs for commercial uses shall show how any
solid waste generated will be properly stored and disposed of. The Planning
Commission may reject an application for a CUP for a commercial use upon
finding that the proposed provisions for solid waste storage and disposal are
inadequate.
         (2)   Proper storage includes ensuring that solid waste is not
accessible to animals and that blowing waste will not become a nuisance.
   (N)   Are there restrictions on potential nuisances generated by commercial
uses? Yes.
      (1)   No commercial use shall require an UPDES permit that is required by
state law.
      (2)   No commercial use shall channel surface run-off onto another
property, into irrigation works or a storm water treatment pond, or onto a
public way except in compliance with an approved storm water management plan
and with permission of the property owner(s).
      (3)   No commercial use shall require an air quality permit this is
required by state law.
      (4)   Commercial storage, processing, use, and disposal of hazardous
materials is not permitted. It is recognized, however, that some compatible
commercial uses may use small quantities of hazardous materials (paint,
solvents, and the like). The use of hazardous materials is permitted only to
the extent allowed by and in compliance with NFPA 1, the 2006 Uniform Fire
Code.
      (5)   All outdoor lighting fixtures shall bear the International Dark Sky
Association Fixture Seal of Approval.
      (6)   No commercial use shall aim or direct light onto another property
or public way.
      (7)   No commercial use shall result in blowing dust or smoke that
adversely affects adjoining properties or the use of public ways.
      (8)   No commercial use shall result in radiant heat or glare from
welding equipment or other sources of intense heat or light that adversely
affect adjoining properties or the use of public ways.
      (9)   No commercial use shall generate sound that adversely affects
adjoining properties.
      (10)   Compliance with the Utah Noxious Weeds Act, Utah Code, Title 4,
Chapter 17, is required.
   (O)   Must commercial uses make proper provision for solid waste storage and
disposal? Of course.
      (1)   All applications for CUPs for commercial uses shall show how any
solid waste generated will be properly stored and disposed of. The Planning
Commission may reject an application for a CUP for a commercial use upon
finding that the proposed provisions for solid waste storage and disposal are
inadequate.
      (2)   Effective buffering or screening of solid waste receptacles is
encouraged.
      (3)   No use shall serve food primarily in disposable containers, except
when such containers are required for take-out service during a public health
emergency.
   (P)   Can commercial uses have signs? Yes, but only in compliance with the
requirements of §§
153.185 et seq.
   (Q)   Can the operating hours of home businesses be restricted? Yes. The
Planning Commission may condition approval of a commercial use on limited
operating hours.
   (R)   Are drive-throughs or drive-ins allowed? No. Drive-through windows and
facilities for drive-in service are prohibited in Boulder. This standard does
not prohibit curbside service for people with mobility limitations or during a
public health emergency.
   (S)   Are standardized commercial uses allowed? No. Commercial enterprises
that are required to use standardized features including architecture, décor,
menus, signs, and/or uniforms by contractual, franchise, or other agreements
are prohibited.
   (T)   Can commercial uses include accessory dwellings? Yes.
      (1)   Accessory dwellings for the owner and/or employees are permitted as
part of a commercial use.
      (2)   Provision of affordable housing for employees as part of a
commercial development is encouraged.
   (U)   Does the Town encourage new or substantially rebuilt commercial
buildings to comply with certain design standards? Yes. Compliance with these
standards will be determined by the Planning Commission using the scoring range
and weight adopted on the commercial use checklist.
      (1)   Reflectivity: The use of highly reflective building materials,
including large expanses of metal and/or glass is discouraged. This standard is
not intended to prohibit or discourage the use of solar power.
      (2)   Color: New or substantially rebuilt commercial buildings are
encouraged to use earth tones for the bulk of their facade. Bright accents in
the form of trim, doors, or possibly other architectural details are not
discouraged.
      (3)   Building Lines: Long, uniform building lines are discouraged. There
are numerous ways to comply with this standard, depending on the scale and use
of the building, including varying the pitch of the roofline, varying the
building footprint, placement of windows and doors, and adding architectural
details, potentially including changes in color or the texture of the siding.
      (4)   Detached Forms: The use of detached forms - a cluster of smaller
buildings rather than one larger structure - is encouraged for lodging and
commercial development that will have multiple tenants.
   (V)   Are any commercial uses specifically encouraged because of their
contribution to the local economy? Yes. Commercial uses that process and sell
primarily local agricultural products and/or primarily the creations of local
artists or artisans are encouraged.
   (W)   Does the Town regulate telecommunications facilities? Yes, but not
using the provisions of this chapter. Please see Ordinance 2020-3.
   (X)   Does Boulder have additional standards for campgrounds, including RV
parks? Yes. Campgrounds, including RV parks, must comply with the standards of
§
153.430.
   (Y)   Is Water-Wise Landscaping Encouraged? Water-wise landscaping is
encouraged. No landscaping encouraged by this ordinance shall receive a
positive score (it may receive a zero) if water-wise techniques are not used.
   (Z)   Does Boulder have additional standards for guest ranches? Yes.
      (1)   The minimum required acreage for a guest ranch is 55 acres.
      (2)   The lodge, bunk houses, or cabins cumulatively shall include not
less than four nor more than tem overnight guest rooms. Kitchens, dining areas,
rest rooms, storage, and other shared indoor facilities do not count as guest
rooms.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may require deeper setbacks for guest
ranches than those required by the Table of Development Standards where it
finds that the additional depth is needed to mitigate potential conflict with
adjoining uses.
   (AA)   How will compliance with these standards be ensured? A certificate of
occupancy is required for all commercial developments. No such certificate
shall be issued until all improvements, including, but not limited to,
landscaping, screening, parking areas, off-site traffic mitigation, required
for compliance with any of the standards adopted here are in place. A CUP is
subject to revocation, as provided in §§
153.150 et seq.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed - -2021; Ord. 2021-5, passed 11-4-2021)
§ 153.416 RESERVED.
CAMPGROUND AND RV PARKS
§ 153.430 ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR CAMPGROUNDS, INCLUDING RV PARKS.
   (A)   Are deeper setbacks required for campgrounds? Yes, the requirements of
Table of Development Standards are replaced by minimum front, side, and rear
setbacks of 40 feet for campgrounds. The Planning Commission may reduce the
requirement for side and rear setbacks to as little as 20 feet where there is
existing or proposed vegetation or a break in terrain that effectively screens
the campground from neighboring properties.
   (B)   Is there a limit on the number of units that may be in a campground?
Yes. There may be no more than 30 units, including RV sites, tents, and cabins.
One unit reserved for the use of the owner or an employee does not count toward
the 20.
   (C)   How many campsites may be developed per acre? The maximum number of
campsites, including RV sites, tents, and cabins, per acre shall be ten.
   (D)   Are there standards for safe access to a campground? Yes. Because all
campgrounds must be directly accessible from UT-12, an access permit from UDOT
will be required.
      (1)   The minimum width of a campground access drive shall be 24 feet
unless otherwise specified by UDOT.
      (2)   The depth of a campground access drive (distance from highway to
first intersecting road or parking) must be at least 60 feet unless UDOT
requires more depth.
      (3)   Turning radii of campground access drives must be suitable for
motor homes and large trailers.
   (E)   Are there standards for safe circulation and parking within a
campground? Yes.
      (1)   Campground drives, parking spaces, and RV pads shall have properly
drained all-weather surfaces. A stormwater management plan may be required (see
§
153.415(Z) of the Commercial Development Standards).
      (2)   One-way campground drives shall be at least 12 feet wide. Two-way
campground drives shall be at least 24 feet wide.
      (3)   Parking shall be limited to designated spaces and RV pads. Parking
shall not be permitted along campground drives. "No Parking" signs or barriers
shall be installed as necessary.
      (4)   Each tent site shall have at least one designated parking spaces
within 200 feet.
      (5)   RV pads shall be at least 45 feet deep.
      (6)   A minimum of two common (not designated for specific site) parking
spaces shall be provided in every campground. An additional two common parking
spaces shall be provided for each ten RV or tent sites.
   (F)   What improvements are required in a campground?
      (1)   RV Pads. Each RV pad shall have water, sewer, and power
connections. RV pads may also have a fire ring or grill on a nonflammable
surface. Fires shall be confined to that area. There shall be an approved
garbage container within 300 feet of each RV pad.
      (2)   Tent Sites. Each tent site shall have access to potable water
within 300 feet and a safe outdoor cooking area, developed with a fire ring or
grill on a nonflammable surface. Fires shall be confined to that area. There
shall be an approved garbage container within 300 feet of each tent site.
      (3)   Water and Sewerage Systems. Water and sewerage systems shall be
designed, installed, and maintained in compliance with state law. Fire hydrants
may be required by the fire code.
      (4)   Restrooms and Showers. Public restrooms, including toilets, sinks
and showers, shall be provided in compliance with Utah law, specifically Utah
Health Rules R392-301 or their successor.
      (5)   Park Office. Each campground shall provide a permanent or portable
office structure. This structure may include restrooms and showers, as required
by division (4), above. It may also incorporate a dwelling unit for the owner
or employees. A separate dwelling unit may also be permitted.
   (G)   Are there requirements for the continuing operation of campgrounds?
Yes.
      (1)   Every campground shall have an attendant or host. A landline and
phone number at which the attendant or host may be reached shall be prominently
posted on the exterior of the office and in each separate restroom or shower
building.
      (2)   All fuel dispensing equipment and its use shall comply with the
currently applicable fire code.
      (3)   Wheels and axles shall not be removed from vehicles in the park
except for emergency or temporary repair.
      (4)   Since power connections are required, the operation of generators
is prohibited.
      (5)   Garbage containers shall be resistant against animals, tipping, and
wind, including the provision of fenced enclosures if required by the Planning
Commission. No garbage container may be placed within a required setback.
      (6)   There shall be regular solid waste removal. The Planning Commission
may require submission of a solid waste service contract as a condition of
continuing compliance with the CUP.
   (G)   Is there a limit on the duration of stay in campgrounds? Yes.
Occupancy shall be limited to no more than 180 days in any 365-day period. A
single campground host may be exempt from this limit.
   (H)   Is continuing maintenance required? Yes. Continuing maintenance of all
campground improvements, including landscaping, is a condition of CUP approval.
Failure to maintain the campground as approved may result in revocation of the
CUP.
   (I)   Can a campground be subdivided? No.
(Ord. 2021-5, passed 11-4-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting franchise and approving and authorizing the
15-3     11-5-2015   execution of the Franchise agreement with Garkane Energy
                     Cooperative, Inc.
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
54       5-19-2005   Ordinance vacating portions of First West Street and
                     relocating portions of “A” Street
55       6-1-2006    Ordinance vacating portion of Lower Boulder Road
56       4-5-2007    Ordinance vacating Thompson Ledge Road
57       4-3-2008    Ordinance vacating a street east of Highway 12 and a
                     portion of Third East Street
63       1-25-2010   Ordinance vacating a portion of First East Street
64       1-25-2010   Ordinance vacating a portion of First East Street
65       4-7-2010    Ordinance vacating a portion of First West Street
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Utah Code Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO UTAH CODE ANNOTATED
UCA Reference Code Section
UCA Reference                 Code Section
Title 4, Chapter 17           153.195 ;
                              153.415
10-3-502                      30.01
10-9-703 et seq.              153.305
Title 10, Chapter 9a          152.002
Chapter 10-9a                 153.011
10-9a et seq.                 153.002
10-9a-516                     152.011;
                              153.011
10-9a-516(1)                  153.197
10-9a-516(2)(a)               153.197
10-9a-516(2)(b)               153.197
10-9a-516(2)(c)               153.197
10-9a-516(3)                  153.197
10-9a-517(2)(a)               153.197
10-9a-517(2)(b)               153.197
10-9a-517(2)(c)               153.197
10-9a-517(2)(f)               153.197
10-9a-518                     153.197
10-9a-523                     152.115
10-9a-603                     152.011;
                              153.011
10-9a-803                     153.204;
                              153.221
15A-1-401 et seq.             153.011
17-23-17                      152.011;
                              153.011
Title 17A                     152.011;
                              153.011
Title 17A, Chapter 2          152.011;
                              153.011
Title 17B, Chapter 2          152.011;
                              153.011
Title 19, Chapter 5           153.011
19-6-102(9)                   153.011
19-6-102(16)                  153.011
20A-9-404(1) and (2)          31.01
Title 26, Chapter 21          152.011
26-21-2                       152.011
Title 52, Chapter 4           152.011;
                              153.011
52-4-207                      34.03
Title 53A, Chapter 1a, Part 5 152.011
Title 54                      32.04
54-2-1                        152.011;
                              153.011
57-8-13                       152.011
57-16-3                       153.011
57-18 et seq.                 152.151
58-56-4                       153.220
59-1-401                      32.21
59-1-402                      32.21
                              32.02;
Title 59, Chapter 12          32.04;
                              32.40
Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 1  32.39
Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 6  32.39
59-12-104                     32.39
59-12-106                     32.04;
                              32.39
59-12-352 et seq.             32.15
59-12-352(1)                  32.17
Title 62A, Chapter 2          152.011
63-34-13                      153.366
63-34-13(4)(b)                153.366
                              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2008-2   9-1-2008    90.04
2010-3   8-5-2010    151.25
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
12       5-3-1985    91.01—
                     91.12
17       5-5-1987    50.01
                     32.01—
18       2-1-1990    32.04;
                     32.99
27       4-6-1995    31.01
29A      8-24-1995   111.01—
                     111.20
32A      6-5-1996    151.01—
                     151.10
                     32.35—
38       4-9-1998    32.40;
                     32.99
32B      7-7-1999    151.01
29B      10-8-1999   111.11;
                     111.21
-        21-1-1999   91.12
42B      5-2-2001    91.25—
                     91.28
45       7-11-2001   31.02
                     153.001—
                     153.011;
                     153.025—
                     153.027;
                     153.040—
                     153.056;
                     153.070—
                     153.077;
                     153.090—
                     153.103;
                     153.115—
                     153.118;
                     153.120;
                     153.135—
                     153.137;
                     153.150—
                     153.152;
                     153.154—
                     153.156;
                     153.170—
                     153.173;
46       8-28-2001   153.185—
                     153.188;
                     153.190—
                     153.202;
                     153.215—
                     153.220;
                     153.235—
                     153.241;
                     153.255—
                     153.273;
                     153.285—
                     153.290;
                     153.305—
                     153.311;
                     153.325—
                     153.328;
                     153.340—
                     153.344;
                     153.355—
                     153.366;
                     153.380—
                     153.385
32C      1-7-2002    151.11
28C      3-6-2002    110.01—
                     110.07
2003-01  7-8-2002    TSO, Table I
48       8-8-2002    153.117
                     152.001—
                     152.009;
                     152.025—
                     152.029;
                     152.040;
                     152.041;
                     152.043—
                     152.047;
49       3-5-2003    152.060—
                     152.068;
                     152.095;
                     152.097—
                     152.099;
                     152.130—
                     152.133;
                     152.145—
                     152.152;
                     152.999
50       7-2-2003    153.118
-        8-6-2003    110.01;
                     110.04
51       11-5-2003   153.117
46B      12-3-2003   153.117
                     153.001—
                     153.011;
                     153.025—
                     153.027;
                     153.040—
                     153.056;
                     153.070—
                     153.077;
                     153.090—
                     153.103;
                     153.115—
                     153.118;
                     153.120;
                     153.135—
                     153.137;
                     153.150—
                     153.152;
                     153.154—
                     153.156;
                     153.170—
                     153.173;
21D      1-7-2004    153.185—
                     153.188;
                     153.190—
                     153.200;
                     153.202;
                     153.215—
                     153.220;
                     153.235—
                     153.241;
                     153.255—
                     153.273;
                     153.285—
                     153.290;
                     153.305—
                     153.311;
                     153.325—
                     153.328;
                     153.340—
                     153.344;
                     153.355—
                     153.366;
                     153.380—
                     153.385
                     152.001—
                     152.009;
                     152.025—
                     152.029;
                     152.040;
                     152.041;
                     152.043—
                     152.047;
49A      3-3-2004    152.060—
                     152.068;
                     152.095;
                     152.097—
                     152.099;
                     152.130—
                     152.133;
                     152.145—
                     152.152;
                     152.999
7A       11-3-2004   30.01
54       5-19-2005   TSO, Table II
43A      7-7-2005    34.01
46D      8-4-2005    153.118;
                     153.201
55       6-1-2006    TSO, Table II
56       4-5-2007    TSO, Table II
-        4-3-2008    33.01—
                     33.12
57       4-3-2008    TSO, Table II
                     152.001—
                     152.009;
                     152.025—
                     152.029;
                     152.040;
                     152.041;
                     152.043—
                     152.047;
58       5-8-2008    152.060—
                     152.068;
                     152.095;
                     152.097—
                     152.099;
                     152.130—
                     152.133;
                     152.145—
                     152.152;
                     152.999
                     153.001—
                     153.011;
                     153.025—
                     153.027;
                     153.040—
                     153.056;
                     153.070—
                     153.077;
                     153.090—
                     153.103;
                     153.115—
                     153.118;
                     153.120;
                     153.135—
                     153.137;
                     153.150—
                     153.152;
                     153.154—
                     153.156;
                     153.170—
                     153.173;
59       5-8-2008    153.185—
                     153.188;
                     153.190—
                     153.200;
                     153.202;
                     153.215—
                     153.220;
                     153.235—
                     153.241;
                     153.255—
                     153.273;
                     153.285—
                     153.290;
                     153.305—
                     153.311;
                     153.325—
                     153.328;
                     153.340—
                     153.344;
                     153.355—
                     153.366;
                     153.380—
                     153.385
60       9-18-2008   90.01—
                     90.03
62       8-6-2009    34.15;
                     34.16
63       1-25-2010   TSO, Table II
64       1-25-2010   TSO, Table II
65       4-7-2010    TSO, Table II
66       9-1-2011    153.117
59A      - -2012     153.202
59B      - -2012     153.202
71       10-3-2013   92.01—
                     92.07
72       11-7-2013   153.197
59A      - -2014     153.202
                     111.02;
29D      9-4-2014    111.03;
                     111.11;
                     111.22
                     153.117;
15-1     2-5-2015    153.172;
                     153.173
15-2     5-7-2015    153.001
15-3     11-5-2015   TSO, Table I
2017-01  3-2-2017    153.042
2018-2   6-7-2018    130.01
2018-5   12-6-2018   153.042
2019-1   - -2019     32.15—
                     32.22
2018-4   1-3-2019    153.117;
                     153.203
2019-2   5-2-2019    153.117;
                     153.204
                     152.041;
                     152.061;
-        7-11-2019   152.095;
                     152.097—
                     152.099
2019-3   8-1-2019    150.01
2019-4   9-5-2019    152.001
                     153.216;
2020-1   3-5-2020    153.219—
                     153.221 
2020-3   9-3-2020    153.192;
                     153.205
                     153.011;
                     153.116;
                     153.117;
                     153.120;
                     153.150—
                     153.152;
                     153.154;
2021-2   - -2021     153.155;
                     153.171;
                     153.172;
                     153.174;
                     153.197;
                     153.235;
                     153.400;
                     153.401;
                     153.415
                     Adopting Ordinance;
                     30.01;
                     31.01;
2021-3   - -2021     33.10;
                     33.11;
                     130.01;
                     153.170
                     153.011;
2021-5   11-4-2021   153.117;
                     153.415;
                     153.430
2021-6   - -2021     35.01
                     153.011;
                     153.117;
2021-7   12-2-2021   153.120;
                     153.152;
                     153.203
                     152.011;
2022-1   6-2-2022    152.041;
                     153.118;
                     153.190 
                     152.005;
2022-2   6-2-2022    152.006;
                     152.115;
                     152.116
2022-3   9-1-2022    34.03
2022-4   12-1-2022   152.041
                     152.006;
                     152.007;
                     152.029;
                     152.041;
                     152.046;
                     152.047;
2023-1   12-7-2023   152.061;
                     152.095;
                     152.131;
                     152.132;
                     153.047;
                     153.077;
                     153.381—
                     153.383
                     152.045;
2024-1   - -2024     153.011;
                     153.118;
                     153.119
                    
 
 
